                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: ICR00001220




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (TF-50973)



                                    ON A
                        MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF
                            $52.82 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                         TO THE

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
               (Formerly known as Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan)

                                          FOR A

            NATIONAL EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM PHASE I
                               (NEEP I)




                                   December 17, 2009


Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (As of November 30, 2009)

                              Currency Unit = Afghani
                                 SDR1.00 = $1.61
                                $1.00 = AFN48.45

                            AFGHAN FISCAL YEAR
                              March 21 ­ March 20

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust MoF   Ministry of Finance
        Fund
CDC     Community Development            MPW   Ministry of Public Works
        Council
DDR     Disarmament Demobilization and MRRD    Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and
/RLS    Reintegration/ Rural Livelihood        Development
        Support
ECE-    Emergency Community              M&E   Monitoring and evaluation
PWP     Empowerment and Public Works
        Project
ERR     Economic rate of return          NEEP  National Emergency Employment
                                               Program
FM      Financial management             NERAP National Emergency Rural Access
                                               Project
GRM     Grant Reporting & Monitoring     NRAP  National Rural Access Program
IA      Implementing Agency              PDCU  Program Development and
                                               Coordination Unit
ICR     Implementation completion report PDO   Project Developmental Objective
IP      Implementation Partner           PIU   Program Implementation Unit
ISR     Implementation status report     PRR   Priority Reform and Restructuring
JPMU    Joint Program Management Unit    SIDA  Swedish International Development
                                               Agency
MIS     Management information system UNOPS United Nations Office for Project
                                               Services
MIWRE   Ministry of Irrigation, Water    VOC   Vehicle operating cost
        Resources and Energy

                           Vice President: Isabel M. Guerero
                        Country Director: Nicholas J. Krafft
                          Sector Manager: Michel Audigé
                     Project Team Leader: Hasan Afzal Zaidi
                        ICR Team Leader: Mesfin Wodajo Jijo
                                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                NATIONAL EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM, PHASE I

                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet

A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff .......................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .........................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs........................................................................ iv
H. Restructuring ................................................................................................................. iv
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................... v

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 19
   6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 22
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors............... 24
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 31
   Annex 5. Summary of Grantee's ICR............................................................................ 32
   Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 35

MAP: IBRD 37438
A. Basic Information
                                                                          National Emergency
Country:               Afghanistan              Project Name:             Employment Program -
                                                                          Phase I
Project ID:            P091036                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-50973
ICR Date:              12/24/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Grantee:                  AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                       USD 61.6M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 52.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 52.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Irrigation, Water Resources and Energy
 Ministry of Public Works
 Ministry of Public Works
 United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/24/2002    Effectiveness:
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/14/2003    Mid-term Review:                            03/31/2005
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2004       03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                               20                  20
Other social services                                                 40                  30
Roads and highways                                                    40                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  17                  17
Other social protection and risk management                           33                  33
Rural non-farm income generation                                      17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft                   Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Michel Audige                        Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:       Hasan Afzal Zaidi                    Amer Zafar Durrani
ICR Team Leader:           Hasan Afzal Zaidi
ICR Primary Author:        Mesfin Wodajo Jijo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project was to assist the Recipient in providing employment in rural
areas at a minimum wage, as a safety net, to as many people and in as short a time as
might be feasible.



                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
When the National Emergency Employment Program (NEEP) was launched in 2002 with
funding from the multi-donor Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), the
immediate priority of the new Transitional Government was to capture humanitarian and
other emergency assistance for the promotion of a nationwide employment generation
and infrastructure renewal program. It was expected that the grant would be fully
disbursed by the end of 2004. The program proved to be a good delivery mechanism for
transferring purchasing power to rural communities to help re-start the local economy.
However, it had less success in directly targeting those most in need of social protection,
notably the disabled and women heads of household. At the same time, significant levels
of new investment in rural infrastructure started to take place outside the NEEP
framework, as resources were being channeled through more specialized parallel national
programs. Employment opportunities and wage rates rose significantly in many parts of
the country, though labor markets remained often isolated and poorly integrated. In some
areas, competition for labor during peak demand times of the year rightly called into
question NEEP#s feasibility as a precise social protection instrument. The justification
for NEEP primarily as a provider of short-term employment and relatively small amounts
of supplementary income (per household) needed to be revisited.

  Accordingly, the government-led review of NEEP during 2004-05 recommended that
the program be re-oriented to the provision of rural infrastructure, thus creating long-term
assets to underpin the local economy while continuing to create much-needed
employment. With the new focus, NEEP-I secured additional funding of $20.2 million
from the ARTF, formalized in Amendment No. 2 to the Grant Agreement dated
November 2005. The amendment modified the Project Development Objective and
replaced the PDO indicators with a new set. The project objective was changed to: the
nation-wide quality rehabilitation, reconstruction and maintenance of essential rural
access infrastructure using appropriate labor-based approaches, thereby creating short-
term opportunities for the rural poor.

  In 2007 yet more funding ($16.0 million) became available from the ARTF to enlarge
the program of road works. It was formalized by Amendment No. 3 to the Grant
Agreement dated January 2007.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target        Completion or
                                             documents)            Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Cross-drainage structures, incl. bridges rehabilitated, meters.
Value
quantitative or n.a.                      9700
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/14/2003                  03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %


                                               iii
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Irrigation schemes rehabilitated (hectares)
Value
quantitative or   n.a.                       24000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/14/2003                 03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Un-skilled labor days of employment generated.
Value
quantitative or   n.a.                       5420000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/14/2003                 03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Un-skilled labor days of employment generated.
Value
quantitative or                              5420000
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                      Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                             documents)                      Target Years
                  Amount of incremental non-World Bank funds channeled through the NEEP
Indicator 1 :
                  NRAP
Value
(quantitative   n.a.                         n.a.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/14/2003                     03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                    iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                 IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                            (USD millions)
  1    01/02/2009         Satisfactory       Satisfactory            52.82


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
Note: Funds were disbursed periodically from ARTF into UNOPS' imprest account. From there, UNOPS disbursed
them against project expenditures month by month.




                                                     vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Ravaged by nearly three decades of conflict and political instability, Afghanistan was and
remains one of the world's poorest and longest suffering countries. At the time of
appraisal a large majority of the population still lacked access to basic services, especially
in the rural areas. An estimated 4 to 7 million people remained vulnerable to hunger, with
a large number dependent on food and humanitarian aid.

The aftermath of September 11, 2001 precipitated change in the political and military
situation in Afghanistan. An interim administration was established in December 2001,
leading to an Emergency Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) which paved the way for a new
constitution, an elected president (2004) and parliament (2005) for a more representative
government within four years.

The war and the resulting neglect had left the few existing public assets severely
dilapidated. After the World Bank re-engaged in Afghanistan in late 2001, the destruction
was further compounded by a severe drought, which lasted until 2004. The conflict and
the drought resulted in massive population displacements and disruption of livelihoods.

For the four fifths of the Afghan population living in rural areas, incomes were at
subsistence level. Poor and deteriorated infrastructure further increased costs to the rural
population and slowed the recovery of the rural economy. For many years, public
infrastructure had not been maintained, irrigation canals had accumulated sediment and,
in many places, structures were in need of repair, leading to reduced water supply and
consequently reduced farm productivity. Unpaved roads were in poor condition and
bridges were down, providing limited access and causing very low speeds. Even short
trips often required an overnight stay. Hence despite long distances, animal-drawn carts
competed with motorized transport in many parts of rural Afghanistan. The more than 25
years of war had also prevented maintenance and new investment from taking place. This
left the road network only partially usable at very high transportation costs. Interventions
from maintenance to reconstruction were widely needed.

Employment opportunities in rural areas remained limited. Recently imposed restrictions
on border-crossing to Iran and Pakistan further reduced prospects for Afghan migrant
labor. The return of refugees and internally displaced populations to their places of origin
further distressed local labor conditions.

The Transitional Government of Afghanistan had articulated a clear strategy for the
country's reconstruction through its National Development Framework. Restoration of
livelihoods and social protection were top priorities and the first pillar of the framework.
The National Emergency Employment Program (NEEP), launched in 2002, was the main
investment program for social protection of vulnerable groups aimed at providing timely,
efficient, self-targeting and widespread social safety nets based on cash-for-work
schemes. NEEP activities involved a wide range of sectors: roads, irrigation, urban
development, natural resource management, soil conservation, and reforestation. They


                                              1
also included capacity building activities to ensure effective planning, delivery,
monitoring and evaluation.

Afghanistan was able to meet the criteria for a Post-Conflict Recovery Grant under the
Bank's policy OP 2.3. The Bank seized this opportunity to quickly prepare a program of
IDA grants for early support to post-conflict recovery, in which a grant for an Emergency
Community Empowerment and Public Works Project ($42 million) formed part. The
objectives of its Labor-Intensive Public Works component were: (i) to provide
employment in rural areas at a minimum wage, as a safety net, to as many people and in
as short a time as might be feasible; and (ii) to rehabilitate in a sustainable way irrigation
capacity and provincial- and district-level roads. This component ($16 million) provided
an opportunity to sustainably design, as a logical next step, the NEEP-I project which is
the subject of this report.

Afghanistan did not have a social protection policy when NEEP was formulated and is
only now (in 2009) beginning to define such a framework. However, the Emergency
Community Empowerment Project generated useful lessons regarding (i) the use of
productivity norms versus a fixed wage rate, and the use of participatory rural appraisal
methods to support communities in identifying and selecting their poorest members for
employment on NEEP-I sub-projects. The project proved that it could serve as a safety
net while creating much needed assets.

Table 2: Development of the National Rural Access Program
                                          NEEP                                                               NERAP



 LIWP- Labor Intensive
                                                               LIWP (IDA)    N
 Works Project LIWP (IDA)
                                                               US$ 16.69     E
                  US$ 16.69 M
                                                               M Closed
                  Effective                                                  E
                                                               12/31/04
                  6/11/02                                                    P
 NEEP-I: National
                                     NEEP I        NEEP I                        NEEP I        NEEP I                           NEEP I
 Emergency Employment                              (ARTF)                    M (ARTF) US$      (ARTF)
                                     (ARTF) US$                                                                                 (ARTF)
 Program Phase I                     25.4 M        US$ 16.62                 I 36.82 M         US$ 50.62                        US$ 50.62
                                                   M Reduced
                                     Effective                               D Increased       M Increased                      M Closed
                                     3/14/03       6/4/03                        11/28/05      1/24/07                          3/31/09
 NEEPRA- National
 Emergency Employment for                                                    T
                                                   NEEPRA                                                      NEEPRA
 Rural Access                                      (IDA) US$                 E                                 (IDA) US$
                                                   39.2 M                    R                                 39.2 M
                                                   Effective                                                   Closed
                                                                             M
                                                   7/22/03                                                     9/30/07


 DDR/RAL-Disarmament,                                                        R                                 NEEP
                                                                NEEP
 Demobilization and                                             DDRR/RALS    E                                 DDR/RALS
 Reintegration/Reintegration                                    (JSDF) US$   V                                 (JSDF) US$
 and Livelihoods                                                19.6 M       I                                 19.6 M
                                                                Effective                                      Closed
                                                                8/28/04
                                                                             E                                 3/30/08
                                                                             W
 NERAP-National                                                                                                              NERAP
 Emergency Rural Access                                                                                                      (IDA/ARTF)
                                                                                                                             US$ 142 M
 Project
                                                                                                                             Effective      Closing 12/31/10
                                                                                                                             11/17/08


 2001/2002                      2002/03           2003/04      2004/05        2005/06       2006/07           2007/08       2008/09         2009/10


Note: LIPW was a component of the Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project




                                                                         2
Table 2 shows the sequence of the various emergency/post-conflict operations supported
by IDA and other donors over the past seven years in the realm of rural infrastructure.

Designed under the preceding project, NEEP-I and NEEPRA were prepared in parallel
and became effective within one month of each other. This allowed for the mobilization
of significant resources from two complementary funding sources to support the same
objective. The implementation of NEEP was successful enough to attract donors to
contribute additional funds to scale up the project's scope and keep functioning beyond
this initial 18-month target. In this regard it continued operating as parallel financing with
a series of other grants and credits funding emergency employment and the improvement
of rural roads and other infrastructure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
NEEP-I's original aim was to assist the government in providing employment in rural
areas at a minimum wage, as a safety net, to as many people in as short a time as
possible. It was to be monitored through the following key performance indicators. The
implementing agencies were to be the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and the Ministry
of Irrigation, Water Resources and Energy (MIWRE.

        PDO Indicators (called `Performance Indicators' in the Grant Agreement)
1. 25% of the allocation to Grant Categories 1a and 1b would be disbursed within 3 months of
   the date of the agreement between MPW/MIWRE and the Beneficiaries
2. 100% of the allocation to Grant Categories 1a and 1b would be disbursed within 9 months of
   the date of the agreement between MPW/MIWRE and the Beneficiaries
3. 3 million person-days of labor performed under subprojects within 6 months of the date the
   Grant was signed
4. 5 million person-days of labor performed under subprojects within 9 months of the date the
   Grant was signed
5. 750,000 disabled person-days of targeted employment performed by the time the Project was
  completed.
6. 5,000 kilometers of roads repaired under subprojects by the completion of the Project

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
As an emergency post-conflict operation, the NEEP-I project formulation lacked the
social protection policy framework (diagnostics and institutional set-up) normally
required to underpin a Bank-supported safety net program. As implementation proceeded,
it became clear that the kind of rural road and canal irrigation works being pursued, while
highly valued by local communities, were blunt instruments for transferring cash to those
most in need of social protection. The gradual shift in emphasis toward integrated and
sustainable rural access led the umbrella NEEP to evolve from a safety net approach to
the National Rural Access Program (NRAP). The revised objective of the NEEP-I
therefore became the nation-wide quality rehabilitation, reconstruction and maintenance
of essential rural access infrastructure using appropriate labor-based approaches, thereby
creating short-term opportunities for the rural poor.


                                                3
The key performance indicators were amended to read:

                                     Revised PDO Indicators
                          1. 3,100 km of roads rehabilitated
                          2. 9,700 m of structures repaired
                          3. 5,420,000 days of short-term labor employed

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The project's primary beneficiaries were rural households in all the 34 provinces
traversed by the roads to be rehabilitated. Among these families the project indirectly
benefitted the most vulnerable --the disabled and female-headed households--by
employing able-bodied male family members. Among the infrastructure targeted was the
Shamalan Canal and irrigation network in Helmand Province, which was repaired; the
farmers who relied on it were also beneficiaries. The MPW, MIWRE and the Ministry of
Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD), brought in in 2005, were also
beneficiaries1. With the support of this project, these institutions built reasonable capacity
in procurement, financial and contract management. The local private contractors have
grown in terms of their management and contract execution capacity, and the local shura
(community elders) and elected community development councils (CDCs)i have
benefitted through their experience in implementing community contracts.

1.5 Original Components
At the outset the Project had two components:
Road Sector Labor-Intensive Public Works ($21.95 million): Subprojects were to be
carried out in the road sector using the services of: (a) a team of management experts to
help launch the activities and support their overall management; and (b) a core team of
locally recruited road engineers in each province to assist with: (i) the design and costing
of subproject proposals; (ii) providing technical support to villagers and small contractors
carrying out the subprojects; (iii) supervising the works; (iv) making payments; and (v)
managing and controlling expenditures.

Irrigation Labor-Intensive Public Works ($3.47 million): Sub-grants were to be made
to beneficiaries for carrying out subprojects in the irrigation sector using services parallel
to those above.

1.6 Revised Components
The irrigation component was later discontinued, while the road component was split into
secondary and tertiary roads to be executed by the MPW and MRRD respectively.
Discontinuing the irrigation component was consistent with the new emphasis given to
rural access as NEEP evolved into NRAP. MIWRE benefited from direct World Bank
1
 MRRD was brought in when the Project was amended (Amendment No. 2, see Section 1.7). By then
MIWRE had changed its name to the Ministry of Energy and Water. It no longer participated in the Project
by the time of Amendment No. 3.



                                                   4
funding for irrigation projects. This restructuring was formalized in January 2007 through
Amendment No. 3 to the ARTF Grant Agreement. $35.41 million were allocated to
secondary roads and $13.93 million to tertiary roads.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
Amendment No.1 to the Grant Agreement (June 2003): Three months after the grant was
approved, the Government requested cancelation of $8.8 million from this grant, so that
the trust funds could be redirected to support its general operating budget, outside the
terms of the Project. NEEP-I's objective remained the same but the disbursement targets
were duly scaled down.

Amendment No.2 to the Grant Agreement (November 2005): The objective was modified
to reflect the shift in focus of the NEEP from employment creation to provision of
durable rural access infrastructure, and its evolution to NRAP, at the same time as the
funding was increased from $16.62 million to $36.82 million. The performance targets
were modified to reflect the revised scope and expanded scale of funding.

Amendment No.3 to the Grant Agreement (January 2007): The Grant amount was
increased from $36.82 million to $52.82 million, and the performance indicators were
adjusted to reflect the increased resources.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Continuation of Previous Activities: The project design was based on the Government's
successful Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project launched in
2002 and the SIDA-funded Shamalan Canal Project, which provided a ready platform for
road-related projects, as well as the labor-intensive restoration of an important irrigation
scheme. (See Section 1.1.) This previous experience enabled the project team to respond
quickly to the prevailing priorities in Afghanistan.

Simplicity of Design: The project was kept simple with two main components: road
works and irrigation works. This simplicity was appropriate for the prevailing conditions.
Implementation arrangements addressed the weak capacity of MPW and MIWRE by
providing for a so-called `Implementing Partner' (IP) to oversee implementation of the
works and to build capacity in the ministries. The IP selected was the United Nations
Office for Project Services (UNOPS).

Pro-Poor Community-Led Targeting: Most infrastructure works were expected to be
relatively straightforward, labor-based and requiring few specialized skills --such as
earthworks for basic earth roads, involving preparation of construction materials, stone
dressing, ditch digging, gabion2 making, road maintenance, or snow clearing. Such works
2
    wire nets filled with rocks for retaining walls and to stabilize embankments (see photo in Section 3.5)



                                                        5
are known in Afghanistan as Level-1 contracts and can be managed by local communities
without need of formal enterprises and bidding. Labor can be selected by local
community leaders, after making announcements in local mosques; the shura head or
community development council (CDC) chooses workers from the list of applicants. The
project set a ceiling of $30,000 per contract for such procurement.

Targeted Beneficiaries: High expectations had been established regarding the
performance of NEEP-I as a safety net instrument. Efforts were made to include the most
vulnerable groups. However, it soon became clear that the labor-intensive nature of the
works as well as prevailing social norms prevented the disabled and women from taking
part in the works, except for activities such as weaving of gabion nets, which women
could do within the confines of their family compound. The inherent conflict was debated
between the desire to target employment to the most needy, versus the practicalities of
who would be fittest and most socially acceptable for works of this nature.

2.2 Implementation

The following are the main factors affecting implementation during the project life:

2.2.1 Shift in Focus: Towards the end of 2004, a government-led review3 of NEEP led
to the shift from a social safety net designed to create jobs, to an investment program to
upgrade rural access. It could still be argued that local basic infrastructure would create
numerous jobs in rural areas, but it was acknowledged that it was not the best way to
target the most needy. But the new focus was to improve community infrastructure that
would yield social returns over many years.

This also had implications for procurement. So-called `Level 2 contracts' would be
formal contracts, mostly over $30,000 per contract, with local firms offering some
experience in civil works. More ambitious road works requiring heavy equipment could
be included ­though the program still focused on existing alignments.

The performance indicators were also changed from targets purely focusing on
disbursement to include the quantity of the infrastructure improved (see Section 1.3).

2.2.2 Security Environment. Increasing insecurity severely hampered subprojects,
particularly in the southern and eastern provinces. The project continued to operate in less
secure areas because of the potentially large and visible gains from road rehabilitation
works and resultant employment opportunities for the rural population. The
implementation mechanism was adjusted depending on the security situation, more use
being made of community-based contracting wherever contractor firms were unable to
work. All reasonable precautions were taken to balance project implementation and
supervision with the need to ensure the safety of staff.

3
 "The Road from Emergency Employment towards Integrated Rural Access: Re-orientation of the
Afghanistan National Emergency Employment Program to the Rural Access Program", Report No. 19,
South Asia Human Development Sector & Sustainable Development Sector, November 2006



                                                6
2.2.3 Inadequate Capacity of Contractors: According to UNOPS records, a number of
contracts were delayed because contractors did not have the funds to mobilize their plant
and machinery to implement subprojects. Level 2 contracts entitle contractors to a
mobilization allowance to help them procure and mobilize plant. However, in practice
these allowances often were released only after the plant had been delivered on site,
leaving the contractor to find his own working capital for mobilization. Since this was
rarely available, works were delayed. For Level 1 subprojects, contracts stipulated an
advance payment of $1,000 within 14 days of signing the contract. These subprojects
were implemented through the shura or the CDCs and were expected to be completed
within three months. There were delays in disbursing funds to the shuras, but solutions
were found.

2.2.4 Competition from Poppy Production: In some regions competition from poppy
harvesting also caused delays. Because of seasonal considerations, it often happened that
NEEP activities coincided with the peak poppy cultivation. Workers found more lucrative
employment opportunities as sharecroppers on poppy farms, causing attendance on
NEEP subprojects to fall or become irregular. Poppy cultivation was at a low in winter,
when frost and snow could also prevent or disrupt NEEP activities.

2.2.5 Role of the Implementing Partner. The task of managing implementation was
contracted to UNOPS, which supported the three line ministries, MPW, MIWRE and
MRRD. Recourse to an implementing partner (IP) was essential, due to the weak capacity
of the ministries. Without the IP it was unlikely that the project could be delivered. The
International Labor Organization also provided focused technical assistance for cash-for-
work operations. Implementation was satisfactory throughout the project life but during
the early years procurement and financial management were rated less than satisfactory.
UNOPS had difficulties finding competent staff to manage the fiduciary aspects and this
led to errors in procurement and late delivery of audit reports. The Mid-Term Review
report noted that their major weakness was their inability to monitor, evaluate and report
on program implementation in a timely way. These issues were addressed during project
supervision, and subsequent missions noted a progressive improvement in quality and
timeliness of reporting. Despite constraints of security and high staff turnover, UNOPS
managed to deliver nationally.

2.2.6 Mid-term Review: A review of NEEP was undertaken at the end of 2004. At that
time, there were four Bank-managed projects under NEEP at various stages of
implementation (in chronological order LIPW, NEEP-I, NEEPRA, and DDR/RLS) ­
LIWP and NEEPRA were IDA grants and credits, DDR/RAL was funded by JSDF and
NEEP-I by the ARTF. It was deemed logical to review the NEEP program in its entirety
rather than focus on a single funding source. Thus, there was no separate mid-term
review specific to NEEP-I. Instead, recommendations were made on the general NEEP
implementation, focusing on three aspects: quality of engineering works, social
protection, and institutional impacts. Its findings were endorsed by the Bank and formed
the basis of recommendations made for the whole NEEP program.




                                            7
The NEEP/NEEPRA review was government-led, strengthening ownership and
providing the impetus for the Government to implement the recommendations.
Particularly as regards institutional impact, the review suggested the establishment of
program implementation units (PIUs) in the two line ministries, MPW and MRRD, which
created greater local ownership and involvement, while allowing a slow phasing out of
the international presence in managing the project.

It was this review that suggested that, for greater effectiveness, the Government should
focus NEEP on the delivery of rural infrastructure aiming to promote rural growth and
reduce rural poverty primarily through the provision of local access infrastructure. It
stated that NEEP's central objective needed to be simplified to focus on rural roads, with
nationally recognizable outputs that were owned by all tiers of government. It noted that
targeting of the poor and vulnerable under NEEP had not been highly successful, and that
there was a need to revisit NEEP's role as a social safety net, as well as the expectations
from the direct income transfers. The Government took immediate steps to implement the
Review's recommendations. NEEP's name was duly changed from National Emergency
Employment Program to National Rural Access Program.

2.2.7 Government Commitment was consistent and well engaged at preparation as well
as throughout the project. The Government assigned staff and gradually employed more
civil servants and consultants to work on the project rather than relying fully on UNOPS.
Rural access was, and is even more now, identified as one of the priorities of the Afghan
Government, and the administration has been working with the donor community to
establish functional programs and develop a comprehensive rural access policy. The
progress on the latter has been slower than hoped due to the country context. The NRAP
was identified in the May 2008 Afghanistan National Development Strategy as one of the
15 key programs for the implementation of the Comprehensive Agriculture and Rural
Development Sector Strategy, to be implemented between 2008 and 2013.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The indicators in the M&E framework were of outputs more than outcomes. However,
they were appropriate to the conditions under which the project was to be implemented.
Initially, UNOPS struggled to monitor and report on program implementation on a timely
basis. The provision of monthly and quarterly reports improved over the project period to
give a satisfactory basis with regards to the quality of data and identification of issues to
be addressed. The indicators, the original and later revised, were used to monitor progress
and report them in the Grant monitoring reports. A consolidated MIS system materialized
only late in the project. This impeded the Government and donors from making some
timely interventions where they were required.




                                             8
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social and Environmental Safeguards

The works carried out created little need to displace and resettle people. Social safeguard
issues were probably inadequately addressed until late in the project period. The staffs of
the implementing ministries and UNOPS were unaware of Bank procedures and no
records were kept of processes undertaken in connection with land acquisition, voluntary
donations or community compensation to affected persons. No specific social safeguards
monitoring or supervision was undertaken. The PIUs and the IP feel that sufficient
attention was given to all aspects of social inclusion and adequate consultation was
carried out, especially considering the difficult country environment, but they agree that
the processes were not satisfactorily documented.

Similarly, environmental impacts ­ such as the felling of trees or changes to the flow of
water courses-- were small and in some cases benign ­such as reduced land erosion. The
environmental safeguard issues also were probably not adequately addressed until the
later stages of the project. But supervision was consistent, responsive to client needs,
adapting well to the circumstances on the ground. To institutionalize the Environmental
and Social Management Framework for the subprojects, the Bank's specialist provided
recommendations which were implemented. The presence of a specialist in the Bank's
country office, although late in project implementation, allowed for regular interactive
consultation and active support of the line ministries and local communities.

In the early years, there was also limited safeguards capacity in the World Bank office,
which made it hard for the ministries staff to become conversant with the requirements.

One crucial aspect addressed systematically was the clearance of mines from project
sites. This was done by a certified agent who ensured the adequate clearance of mines
from the field before contractors were mobilized. As a result no major incidents were
reported.

Financial Management

After three decades of conflict, the Afghan government faced a daunting challenge to
rebuild its public administration to effectively manage and use public resources,
including the large inflow of development aid. The Bank has played a role in helping the
Government establish the basic legal framework underlying the public financial
management (PFM) and public procurement systems. Significant progress has been made
in establishing a functioning PFM system under the direction of the Ministry of Finance
(MoF). Project accounting, payments, financial statements and responsibility for
submission of audited financial statements are centralized within MoF. The government-
wide PFM systems, which are used for all IDA and ARTF projects, were assessed,
applying the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability performance measurement
framework in 2005 and at the end of 2007. They were found to be better than the average
of low-income countries, particularly on accounting, recording and reporting.


                                            9
Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until closure
were maintained by UNOPS and at MoF's Special Disbursement Unit. All underlying
supporting documents for the expenditures were kept by UNOPS. UNOPS had good FM
capacity to facilitate project disbursements. Record keeping was moderately satisfactory.

The funds flow arrangement was satisfactory. All payments to UNOPS were centrally
controlled by MoF, and UNOPS had adequate internal controls for project disbursements.
This has been managed appropriately since the project began.

Initially financial reporting was poor: monthly and quarterly financial reports ­ including
the mandatory financial monitoring reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank ­ were
not prepared regularly and also did not contain all required information. However,
reporting improved considerably over time. Annual audited financial statements were
submitted regularly, although not within the time stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The
audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was unqualified for the first
year (SY1383), while qualified opinions were issued in the later three years (SY1384,
SY1385 and SY1386). The audit report for SY1386, due in September 2008, was not
received until August 2009, because the international audit firm had been recruited late.
Responses to key findings arising from the Bank's review of these reports were received
from UNOPS/MRRD and found to be satisfactory.

A financial management review in August 2009 included a review of project expenditure
transactions up to end of the disbursement grace period, and there were no key issues.

Procurement

At appraisal the Bank agreed to follow UNOPS's procedures for procurement of civil
works. However, during ex-post review it was found that UNOPS followed procedures
such as interviews of contractors to verify qualification information. It also did not have
standardized procurement documents and procedures for contracts below the prior review
level. In some cases, the unfamiliarity of UNOPS staff with Bank procedures led to the
award of contracts without the Bank's `no objection'.

Corrective action was taken. Unfortunately though, UNOPS did not always have
competent procurement staff. In 2006-7 it was unable to hire a competent international
procurement specialist for more than a year, despite several international advertisements.
But it improved over time, and local staff also built up their capacity. In addition, due to
poor designs there were quantity variations which resulted in cost escalations. In several
instances UNOPS charged non-project related activities to the project. This was found
out during ex-post reviews and later UNOPS was requested to reverse the charges, and
did so. UNOPS did not maintain proper files in respect of hiring consultants. The project
was, however, constantly supervised for procurement from the Bank's country office,
leading to prompt and timely corrective actions being undertaken.




                                            10
Due to strict adherence to Bank's procurement procedures, it was noted that many
contractors were not meeting the commercial conditions and post-qualification
requirements. The commercial responsiveness was improved by having pre-bid meetings
regardless of the value of the contract. At these meetings checklists were prepared in both
English and Dari and explained to the potential bidders how to fill them out. The
documents were translated into the local language and made available to potential
bidders. This initiative was found beneficial in a context where many potential bidders
were still relatively inexperienced and did not speak English. It enabled more bids to
become commercially responsive. Further, in place of a bid security, a bid security
declaration was introduced.

Based on the ad hoc survey of the contracting community and, considering the post-
conflict nature and limited economic activity during the conflict, a downward adjustment
of the post qualification requirements for civil works contracts was followed with regard
to capacity, experience in completing similar works, and requirement for liquid assets for
contracts up to $1.5 million equivalent. These adjustments helped to expand the pool of
local contractors qualified to bid, thus facilitating contract award during the initial round
of bidding. This is an issue requiring a balancing of risks. Qualifying too few contractors
risks a lack of responsive bids within range of the expected cost, whereas low standards
for qualifying bring a risk that some contracts will go to firms who fail to perform. In
Afghanistan's circumstances, the balance struck seems to have been appropriate.

The Bank also led several capacity building workshops for the staff of the implementing
ministries and UNOPS to improve their procurement knowledge. Over time it was found
that staff developed a much better understanding of procurement requirements.

The overall procurement actions under the project are rated as moderately satisfactory.
This sums up the early shortcomings followed by some later improvements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

NEEP-I served as a launch platform for NEEPRA approved in June 2003 and also for a
further operation NEEP-DDR/RLS ($19.6 million) funded by the Japan Social
Development Fund which was approved in March 2004. NEEP-I's successful
implementation enabled it to raise additional donor support from the ARTF that took its
funding from $25.42 million to a total of $52.82 million and its life to 6 years, running in
parallel with the other two projects. In January 2008 the Bank's Board approved the
National Emergency Rural Access Project (NERAP) and in March 2009 the Management
Committee of the ARTF approved a new phase of co-funding.




                                             11
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

At the design stage, NEEP-I was aligned with the Interim Afghan Government's
framework and one of the Bank's higher-level objectives for a post-conflict situation:
restoration of livelihoods and social protection. In the course of implementation,
following the government-led NEEP review, the objectives were shifted to focus more on
rural access, while continuing to address social protection. These objectives remained the
Afghan Government's top priority through to completion. The Afghan National
Development Strategy4, in its section on the transport sector, stated that "the Government
continued to give high priority to improving 5,334 km of secondary roads (national,
urban and provincial) and to improving and building 6,290 km of rural access roads, as a
key to raising rural livelihoods and reducing poverty and vulnerability in rural areas".

The NEEP/NRAP program objectives and strategy have also remained relevant to all
Bank assistance strategies developed since the Bank's re-engagement in Afghanistan in
2002. These include the 2003 Transitional Support Strategy and the Interim Strategy
Note of 2006. All have retained the promotion of the growth of the rural economy and
improvement of rural livelihoods as an important and central strategic pillar.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Objective: The nation-wide quality rehabilitation, reconstruction and maintenance of
essential rural access infrastructure using appropriate labor-based approaches, thereby
creating short-term opportunities for the rural poor.

Most activities planned at appraisal and the additional activities agreed upon when more
funding became available, were duly delivered, despite the prevailing challenging
security circumstances and the difficult reconstruction context. The results achieved by
project closure even surpassed the revised targets. As such the achievement of the Project
Development Objectives is rated as Satisfactory.

In a country that throughout history has suffered from strife among its several ethnic
communities and from a weak national government, the NEEP/NRAP program has
contributed to a stronger sense among rural communities of belonging to an integrated
nation. Improved rural access has worked in both directions. National line ministries have
been seen to deliver public services in remote areas: schools, health care centers and
administrative offices have been upgraded. Farmers have been able to market their
produce further afield, at higher prices than before. In the process, a local contracting
industry has emerged and is providing job opportunities in remote areas. In short, remote


4
    Afghanistan National Development Strategy 1387-1391 Solar Year (2008-2013).



                                                   12
communities have, perhaps for the first time, a sense of connection to the outside world.
This achievement is still far from complete and remains fragile, but it is real.

For both the public works and the irrigation component, the targets were met as
summarized in Table 3. At the time of project closing, 3,173 km of rural access roads and
19,090 meters of cross drainage structures had been completed. In addition 98 natural
resource management sub-projects, 23 small irrigation subprojects and four large
irrigation subprojects (delivering water to 15,000 hectares in the Shamalan area) had been
completed. Of the 538 contracts awarded, 504 contracts had been completed, and 34
contracts had been terminated or canceled for various reasons. Subprojects under NEEP-I
(and with further continuous financing under the follow-on National Rural Access
Projects) have now reached 358 districts in all of Afghanistan's 34 provinces.

Table 3: Achievement of Key Performance Indicators
        Performance Indicators              Initial  Revised     Achieved     Percentage
                                          Targets    Targets     at Closure    Achieved
Roads (km)                                    5,000     3,100         3,173      102%
Irrigated areas benefitting from repairs     24,000    15,000        15,000      100%
to, and desilting of, canals (ha)
                                             Not        9,700        19,090      197%
Length of structures (linear m)
                                           planned
Unskilled labor (person-days)            4,780,000  5,200,000     5,256,874      101%

These outputs all contributed to the overarching objectives of creating jobs by generating
5.26 million work-days for the needy, while the improved roads provide opportunities for
integrating the rural economy to the market. The delivery mechanism was quick enough
that in less than two months, it was possible to mobilize communities to start work on the
community contracted road and irrigation works, and begin earning the needed income.

The minimum wage sub-objective was also successfully achieved, in that the mid-term
review found that the cost of delivery to government was about $4-5 per day of
employment, comparing favorably with similar programs in other post-conflict countries,
and lower than estimates made at the outset.

3.3 Efficiency

Due to the general paucity of socio-economic data when the project was prepared, no
sound economic analysis was done to justify the investment. However, following the
Bonn agreement in 2001, donors agreed to the Interim Government's priority to
"revitalize economic activity-including restoring essential infrastructure, stimulating job
creation, and providing an enabling environment for the private sector".

To confirm the economic soundness of the investment in rural access infrastructure, an
ex-post evaluation has been made on a sample of road subprojects financed under the
three parallel sources of funding (ARTF, IDA and JSDF). The criteria for selecting
subprojects were more or less similar under each project. The objective of social



                                            13
protection cut across the three projects, and the design, implementation arrangements and
delivery mechanism were the same. Their implementation periods also overlapped
substantially, and they had similar social impacts. Conclusions drawn from analysis of
NEEPRA and NEEPRAL subprojects therefore apply also to NEEP-I with reasonable
confidence. This was confirmed by the result of the analysis carried out on one NEEP-I
subproject included in the sample. The following summarizes the results of this analysis5.
Economic rate of return: The estimated ERRs based on savings in vehicle operating
costs and travel time ranged from 5% to 46%. Out of 14 sample road investments, three
yielded ERRs ranging from 5 to 8%. Another five yielded ERRs ranging from 12 to 19%,
and the rest yielded returns over 22% (see Annex 3). When pooled together, the sample
projects generated an ERR of 22%. The rate of return would have been higher if a
monetary value could have been put on non-quantified social and environmental benefits
attributable to the improved roads. (Such benefits were not subject to any systematic
monitoring and impact evaluation.) Convergence of complementary development
projects in the NEEPRA project areas will further help in exploiting the potential second-
round employment and other benefits, but much depends on the sustainability of the rural
access infrastructure already rehabilitated. The following table shows the results for the
single representative NEEP-I road located in Samangan Province in the North Region.

Table 4: Partial Results of Economic Analysis of NEEP-I Representative Road
                                                      Economic Analysis
                    Road ID
                                            Costs ($) Benefits ($) Net PV ($) ERR
    RRD/WB/NEEP1/NTH/SMN/002                  374,125     475,084     100,959 19%
    Grand Total of 14 Sample Roads          4,616,123   6,643,054   2,026,931 22%

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating:                                       Satisfactory

The major intended outcomes, that is: (i) protection of social livelihoods, by creating
employment opportunities, and (ii) improvement of rural access, have been realized and
the physical and spending targets have even been surpassed. The project started life as
support to post-conflict reconstruction. From the outset the Bank and the donors to the
ARTF recognized the very limited institutional capacity of the Borrower to implement
such a program. The implementation mechanisms put in place were judged, in the light of
prior international experience as the best compromise between ownership by the
Borrower and technical and financial competence.

During implementation the capacity of the line ministries remained very weak, and
UNOPS as implementing partner also suffered shortcomings of administrative
competence and continuity. But the project nonetheless produced important outputs
consistent with its development objective. It was also able to leverage support from other
donors, fostering an enabling environment for further investment under the NRAP

5
    ICR for NEEPRA, June 20, 2008



                                           14
umbrella. Regrettably, the weakness of project monitoring and evaluation systems does
not allow a full appreciation of the gains made. By the time the project was completed six
years after approval, the political situation was somewhat more settled, but it remained
very fragile and the administrative environment remained weak. In this light, the overall
outcome can be rated satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Efforts were made to make the project responsive to issues of gender, ethnicity, local
poverty conditions, community dynamics and the institutional context. Efforts were also
made to identify the most vulnerable groups. Local partners with good reputation and
contacts ensured a fairly inclusive consultative process, that took place and helped
prevent political interference and elite capture. Options for women to participate in the
work-force were explored, using innovative solutions such as the production of building
materials in the home (see photo) or other socially acceptable locations.

The involvement of communities in
implementing subprojects was positive.
The approach adopted worked well to
ensure that a pro-poor labor selection
process was maintained for the community-
based contracts and that community
participation     remained     transparent,
generating ownership of the subprojects.
Stakeholders' consultation was carried out
for all subprojects, including secondary
access roads with the involvement of social
inclusion specialists.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Capacity in Afghanistan remains weak. The mid-term review confirmed the weaknesses
and low capacity in both the public and private sectors to manage infrastructure, and
acknowledged that reliance on international technical assistance was absolutely
necessary. During project implementation, some capacity building activities were
undertaken, including extensive on-the-job training, but it remains to be seen how this
limited training impacted on the overall institutional strength. The project established the
following:
   ·   Program Implementation Units (PIUs) functioning in MPW and MRRD,
       managing the programs of the ministries, undertaking planning, design,
       implementation reporting and M&E functions.




                                            15
    ·    An MIS/GIS system in both line ministries and the Program Development and
         Coordination Unit, formerly known as the Joint Program Management Unit6.
    ·    Standardized technical specifications for both ministries.
    ·    Innovative construction techniques adopted, including pre-stressed technology,
         double surface treatment of roads, and research and trial of cement/lime stabilized
         road bases.

NEEP-I was implemented by MRRD and MPW using the services of UNOPS as IP.
There was a perception that the delivery cost of the project was on the high side but
comparable to that of other donor agencies. Nevertheless, given the low capacity of the
government, the project could not have been implemented without UNOPS.

The two implementing ministries differed somewhat in their project implementation
approach, in that MRRD went through a reform process where most staff resigned their
civil service position and became consultants. MPW did not.

In MPW apart from UNOPS international staff in Kabul and the regions, there were
approximately 100 national staff on IP contract, and about 150 civil servants working on
the program. The civil servants were paid monthly project allowances, as the government
salaries were still very low. The MPW civil servants, particularly technical staff, had
been involved hands-on in subproject design and supervision and hence had gained
considerable training, e.g. surveying, laboratory testing, Autocad and road design.

MRRD on the other hand mostly relied on national consultants on the IP contract to carry
out the project. In addition to the IP's international staff based in the center and the
regional capitals, the ministry had about 200 national staff on the IP payroll based in the
center and the regions. In additional about 120 civil servants received operational/project-
related allowances, but contributed only marginally to the NEEP/NRAP program.

Following the mid-term review, the World Bank prepared a short discussion paper in
2005 titled "From Implementing Partners to Implementing Agencies" with an aim to
inform the two ministries of the issues relating to the implementing arrangements.
Thereafter, both line ministries put additional effort into identifying and retaining skilled
staff and position them strategically for project implementation. The Priority Reform and
Restructuring (PRR) program supported this process.

Furthermore, the task team also carried out an institutional review of UNOPS. It found
that certain areas like administrative procedures, and systems such as performance
evaluation, information collection and documentation needed improvement. The team
followed up on these findings during subsequent missions and registered progress in
some areas, while others were still lagging behind, largely due to the high staff turnover.


6
  Although the transition from JPMU to PDCU aimed at shifting the focus of the unit from operational to
strategic policy making and program coordination, the PDCU very much remained the implementation
coordination body until the end of the project. This is due to the lack of sufficient capacity in the ministries.



                                                       16
At the peak implementation period, about 700 staff were on the payroll of the NEEP
cluster, i.e. NEEPRA, NEEP-I and NEEP DDR/RLS. Over time, several layers of
management were created, for example, MPW and MRRD program coordinators, chief
and deputy chief coordinators of the PDCU, director and deputy directors of the project
implementation units of MRRD and MPW. The national consultants in the central and
regional PIUs had national counterparts who were there for capacity building purposes.
The number of national staff providing services went up due to increased focus on
capacity building, further dispersed geographic location of works, and increased scope of
services to be provided (support for programs rather than single projects).

National consultants included those individuals who had opted for the Government's
Priority Reform and Restructuring process, and were hired on a consultancy basis
through a competitive process (undertaken by UNOPS). The salary scales of national
staff were based loosely on PRR pay scales (less than market rates) in order to ensure that
national staff could be absorbed by the ministries at a later stage. The PRR enabled the
staff of core civil service departments, ministries and agencies and self-financed public
sector organizations, undertaking key functions, to be placed on an interim additional
allowance for a fixed term in return for undertaking a reform and restructuring process.

The initial objective of the PRR was to restore administrative capacity by stimulating
incremental reform of priority functions through a combination of: (i) careful
restructuring of such units through revised vision, goals, organizational structure and job
descriptions based on job output; (ii) appointment of key staff to new positions through a
merit-based open and competitive process; (iii) pay increases through an interim
allowance system to attract qualified Afghans into government and (iv) administrative
efficiency improvements. In June 2007, the task team recommended more rationalized
staffing to avoid duplication and under-utilization of personnel.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The World Bank played a pivotal role in donor coordination and mobilization of
additional financing for Afghanistan's rural access agenda. The Bank's leadership
fostered better donor coordination, which helped avoid duplication of efforts.

The NEEP as a program and NEEP-I as a project proved to be a good delivery instrument
for the priority social protection goals. NEEP-I secured from donors additional financing
($34 million) more than the original grant amount, without the need to prepare a new
project. This not only ensured the continuity of the program, but also allowed its
expansion into NEEPRA and NEEPRAL.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey has been carried out for the NEEP-I project.




                                            17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating:                                  Significant

Since the project was designed for rapid delivery in the start-up phase of post-conflict
reconstruction, it was appraised quickly, in the expectation that it was preparing the
ground for a larger IDA-funded operation to be launched a few months later. At the time
there was no requirement for a systematic risk identification and risk management plan,
but the task team was well aware of the underlying risks and mainstreamed the mitigation
measures in the project design. In hindsight the project was a high risk/high reward
operation, and the lesson learned provided a good foundation in designing a recent
project such as NERAP (approved in 2008).

Sustainability: The main risks to the development outcome pertain to the sustainability of
the investments and the capacity of the line ministries to identify and implement suitable
mechanisms to provide and manage the maintenance of the assets. The Government lacks
an overall rural infrastructure strategy and related to this, planning for maintenance of
infrastructure is inadequate. There is also no sustainable flow of maintenance funding
that will assure optimum asset management. It is hoped that the Rural Access Strategy to
be developed under NERAP will address this issue.

Targeted Beneficiaries: On the social protection side, the project succeeded in generating
5.2 million days of labor. It made attempts to include women in road construction to the
extent possible. Women's ability to take part in NEEP subprojects was very limited
because of cultural norms and traditions that prevent women from working in public in
many provinces. Special efforts were made to reserve employment space for women and
the disabled, but this practice was the exception rather than the norm.

Security: The escalation of the insurgency is one of the major risks to the assets and their
maintenance, and to the effective capacity of the ministries to provide services. Security
is deteriorating across the country, and particularly in the southern and eastern regions,
where project and contractor staff have become casualties or received threats and
warnings. Criminal activities against staff, contractors, and offices have also increased.

Weak Capacity of Institutions: Scarce availability of qualified engineers, fiduciary
specialists, and technical staff in the public sector is exacerbated by a crowding out effect
from the emerging private sector. More generously funded donor projects may further
weaken the capacity of the ministries to manage programs. There is a substantial risk that
qualified national staff will leave their jobs in the ministries, due to the low civil service
salaries or poor management environment. Afghanistan still has a very limited skills base
due to the prolonged conflict and the slow return of qualified people.

Weak Construction Industry: There is a risk that experienced contractors may not be
available for further work, including routine and exceptional maintenance if needed.




                                             18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating:                                      Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory, based on a
cumulative analysis, as listed in Table 5.

Table 5: Evaluation of Bank's Quality at Entry
Criterion      Rating       Justification
Strategic         Satisfactory   Project objectives were closely aligned with the Government's priorities
relevance and                    and the Bank's country assistance strategy. Follow-on projects have built
approach                         on and expanded the objectives into a bigger Rural Access Program. The
                                 intention to target the poorest was not completely realistic because the
                                 disabled and women could not benefit from jobs on construction sites. The
                                 objective to rebuild the rural road systems was highly relevant to the
                                 country requirements.
Technical and     Moderately     The overarching goal was a rapid transfer of cash through employment
financial         satisfactory   creation and no economic analysis was carried out at entry. Ex-post
aspects                          evaluation of the NEEP program, including one subproject funded by
                                 NEEP-I, showed ERs of about 20 percent.
Fiduciary         Satisfactory   Cognizant of the weak capacities of the implementing ministries, the Bank
aspects                          fully entrusted procurement and financial management functions to the IP.
                                 It designed procurement systems to be as simple as possible for quick
                                 delivery and easier contract management.
Poverty, gender   Satisfactory   Identification of the most vulnerable groups was handled adequately.
and social                       Local partners with good reputation and contacts ensured the consultative
development                      processes that took place and helped prevent political interference and elite
                                 capture. Options for women to participate in the work-force were
                                 explored, using innovative solutions such as the production of building
                                 materials in the home or other socially acceptable locations.
Policy and        Moderately     At entry the emergency nature of the project did not lend itself to a strong
institutional     satisfactory   focus on policy. Rural road rehabilitation was viewed as a means for quick
aspects                          cash transfer without a strong policy direction. Quick implementation was
                                 given priority over institution-building.
Stakeholder       Satisfactory   The Government carried out a series of consultations among stakeholders
consultations                    that ensured better ownership during implementation.
Implementation    Satisfactory   Given the weak capacity of the line ministries, the reliance on the IP
arrangements                     (drawing on prior experience) was the right choice. The same IP was
                                 involved for all NEEP projects to ensure continuity and to tap from the
                                 project knowledge accumulated over the years.
Monitoring and    Satisfactory   The monitorable indicators were relevant and strongly linked to the PDO.
evaluation                       They were designed to be simple, considering the limited institutional
Arrangements                     capacity to monitor them.
Risk              Satisfactory   At the time there was no requirement for a systematic risk identification
assessment                       and risk management plan. However, the task team was well aware of the
                                 underlying risks and mainstreamed the mitigation measures in the project



                                                    19
                              design. In hindsight its was a high risk/high reward operation and the
                              lessons learned provided a good foundation in designing a recent project,
                              such as NERAP.
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating:                                    Satisfactory

The Bank's supervision performance is rated as satisfactory, based on a cumulative
analysis of the Bank's performance against key criteria relevant to the developmental and
country context, as listed in Table 6.

Table 6: Evaluation of Quality of Bank Supervision
Criterion       Rating         Justification
Focus on        Highly         The supervision team always kept an eye on the achievement of
development     satisfactory   the objectives, by quickly clearing procurement documents and
Impact                         working closely with donors to assure the timely availability of
                               financing, not to interrupt the labor-intensive projects.
Supervision of  Satisfactory   The team maintained close interaction with the ministries and IP
fiduciary                      on procurement aspects and periodically suggested improvements
aspects                        to the procurement procedures in use by the IP to ensure greater
                               harmonization with Bank standards.
Candor and      Satisfactory   Internal project reporting was candid in pointing out deficiencies
quality of                     and shortcomings in the implementation processes such as
performance                    procurement, cost-monitoring and financial management; and
reporting                      reporting on performance indicators, particularly the outcomes.
Role in         Satisfactory   Learning from this project, the Bank team, in preparing the
ensuring                       follow-on project, designed transition arrangements such that the
adequate                       implementing ministries would take over some responsibilities
transition                     and their performance was assessed during the mid-term review
arrangements                   with a view to their assuming more responsibilities.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating:                                    Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory, based on a combined reading of
the ratings received in respect of quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating:                                    Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, based on a
cumulative analysis, as listed in Table 7.




                                                20
Table 7: Evaluation of Government Performance
Criterion         Rating       Justification
Government        Highly       From the outset the government was clear on the country's
ownership and     satisfactory priorities and formulated 12 development programs, six of them
commitment to                  priorities. The Livelihood and Social Protection program is one
achieving                      of the six. The Government has always been in the driver seat to
development                    mobilize resources from donors, which has been seen as highly
objectives                     successful. The NEEP/NRAP program was overseen by high-
                               level government officials chairing its steering committee.
Provision of      Moderately   As an emergency social protection operation, the project cut
enabling policy   satisfactory across sectors and was not aligned to a specific sector or theme.
environment                    For this reason there was no clear sector policy. But, the Govt in
                               its transitional strategy gave it the highest priority and housed it
                               under its most dynamic ministries, MPW, MIWRE and MRRD.
Adequacy of       Satisfactory The Government ensured the inclusion and active participation
stakeholder                    of international financing partners and public stakeholders at the
consultations                  provincial and district levels, in the process of policy
                               development and subsequent project implementation.
                               Community councils were responsible for selecting the laborers.
Role in ensuring  Moderately   Co-ordination within and across ministries and agencies has
synergies         satisfactory been, and continues to be, weak. There is still no well-defined
between                        and shared strategy for capacity building. Investment programs
programs/projects              are not sufficiently coordinated to achieve maximum synergies
Implementation    Moderately   The Government was flexible enough to set up arrangements for
readiness         satisfactory carrying out the project smoothly. From the start it
                               acknowledged the line ministries' weak capacities and sought
                               the intensive support of UNOPS and consultants.


(b) Implementing Agencies' Performance

Rating:                                     Moderately satisfactory

The work and inputs to the project of implementing agencies MPW, MRRD, MIWRE
and the Implementing Partner (UNOPS) are hardly distinguishable, since in the project's
early years the ministries relied heavily on UNOPS. The combined performance of the
line ministries and UNOPS is rated as moderately satisfactory, based on a cumulative
analysis, as listed in Table 8.

Table 8: Evaluation of Implementing Agency/Partner's Performance
Criterion       Rating       Justification
Ownership and Satisfactory UNOPS remained firmly committed to achievement of the targeted
commitment to                project outcomes, such as simultaneous analytical work towards
achieving                    rural access policy development that recommended: (a)
development                  rationalization of the growing use of equipment-based methods in
objectives                   rural access rehabilitation, and; (b) use of innovative construction
                             techniques based on local resources that could generate more
                             employment opportunities.
Adequacy of     Moderately The line ministries did their best to reach out and consult with
stakeholder     satisfactory beneficiaries in the identification of projects, and targeted



                                                21
Criterion        Rating         Justification
consultations                   beneficiaries in the cash-for-work program. A Social Inclusion
                                Unit was established and assigned officers in the regions to
                                facilitate consultation. Donor coordination by the line ministries
                                was limited but was mitigated by an active Bank engagement with
                                the donors and the ministries.
Implementation   Satisfactory   Unlike the common defensive attitude of most public entities
readiness                       called on to outsource their core function, the ministries were
                                candid enough to acknowledge their weak capacities and sought
                                the intensive support of implementation partners and consultants.
                                The arrangement worked satisfactorily with marked improvement
                                and increasing involvement of the ministries, for a later take-over.
Timely           Moderately     Because of the weakness of institutional capacity and relevant
resolution of    satisfactory   strategies, the ministries and UNOPS were often been slow in
implementation                  resolving implementation issues, with consequent delays.
issues
Fiduciary        Moderately     Financial management was satisfactory despite initial problems
management       Satisfactory   with timely reporting. Similarly procurement management was not
and control                     fully effective until a decision was made for all procurement
                                activities to be carried out in accordance with the Bank's bidding
                                documents (replacing UNOPS' standard documents). Shortage of
                                qualified staff in procurement had been a challenge to UNOPS.
                                The effort made to address social issues was commendable.
                                Environmental issues were not given the same attention, but the
                                project had negligible environmental impacts.
Adequacy of      Moderately     The indicators designed to monitor outcomes were simple and
monitoring and   satisfactory   measurable. UNOPS adequately updated the progress of the
evaluation                      outcomes, with a reliable data collection arrangement.
arrangements
Adequacy of      Moderately     The broader government focus now seems to be shifting toward
transition       satisfactory   more equipment-based construction methods, to the inadvertent
arrangements                    exclusion of the future scope of public works-based social
                                protection interventions. In these circumstances the implementing
                                agencies launched commendable analytical and capacity building
                                work (especially over the closing period) toward the potential
                                mainstreaming of key thematic priorities in future rural access and
                                social protection policy and strategy formulation.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating:                                     Moderately satisfactory

The Borrower's overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, based on a
combined reading of the ratings received in respect of quality at entry and supervision.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Several key lessons have emerged from this operation, which are relevant for other
fragile states and post-conflict reconstruction cases.

                                                 22
First, post-conflict projects require good understanding of local social structures and
an ability to work with local leaders. Project implementation in a conflict-affected
environment requires flexibility in deploying and redeploying staff; good understanding
of local social structures; an ability to work with community leaders to ensure access to
project sites and security; good capacity to manage and supervise community-based
contracting, which, in volatile areas, may be the most appropriate solution; and the
provision of visible benefits to the population through short lead times, employment
creation, and quality infrastructure.

Second, we have to expect rapid rotation of staff on the client side, which presents a
big challenge for continuity. Rapid rotation of staff on both the client and the Bank
sides increases the need for robust fiduciary systems. And yet it is difficult to attract to
the country quality staff that can develop and update such systems.

Third, capacity building efforts should be targeted at those directly involved in
project implementation, not at a general pool. When the capacity of client staff is
weak, capacity building efforts need be targeted to those staff involved in project
implementation rather than to general capacity building for the ministries. Experience in
Afghanistan on capacity building through provision of generalized technical assistance
has had limited success because it was neither targeted nor linked to measurable
performance improvements.

Fourth, keep projects simple. Projects need to be focus on one or two key objectives and
minimize institutional demands on incipient public sector administrations. This is
especially valid during the initial post-conflict reconstruction period. This was also one of
the recommendations of the Bank's FY07 Quality of Supervision Assessment of
NEEPRA: Countries emerging from conflict generally face considerable damage to
institutional capacity, social capital and relations, economic conditions and infrastructure,
coupled with large numbers of donors and NGOs seeking government attention.

Fifth, Bank management needs to be flexible and hold modest expectations. Risk is
inherently higher in these contexts, and expectations need to be adjusted in line with what
can be reasonably achieved during the initial reconstruction phase. Although the Bank
provides for a fast-track procedure for project preparation in conflict-affected countries,
implementation procedures remain as for standard Bank operations, and this may affect
project delivery, timeliness and effectiveness. Revision of Bank policies for
implementation might be necessary to reap the full benefits of accelerated project
preparation. Post-conflict conditions need to be taken into account and procedures should
be flexible enough to accommodate specific implementation needs.




                                             23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

The implementing agencies commented on December 14, 2009 that the draft
Implementation Completion Report of NEEP-I was formulated very well and reflected
the overall achievements and impacts of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

Not Applicable.




                                        24
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in $ million equivalent)
               Components                    Appraisal      Actual ($     Percentage of
                                             Estimate ($    million)       Appraisal
                                              million)
  Rehabilitation of Secondary Roads                21.95         35.41           161%
  Rehabilitation of Tertiary Roads                  0.00         13.93    No allocation
                                                                           at appraisal
 Repairs and Desilting of Irrigation Canals         3.47          3.47           100%
 Total Baseline Cost                               25.42         52.81           208%
 Physical Contingencies                             0.00          0.00             0
 Price Contingencies                                0.00          0.00             0
 Total Project Costs                               25.42         52.81           208%


(b) Financing
            Source of Funds                   Appraisal       Actual      Percentage of
                                               Estimate     ($ million)    Appraisal
                                              ($ million)
ARTF                                               25.42         52.81         208%




                                              25
                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                             Components                                     Output

Rehabilitation of tertiary roads (km)                                           2,543
Rehabilitation of secondary roads (km)                                            630
Irrigated area benefitting from repairs to, and desilting of, canals (ha)      15,000
Length of structures (linear m)                                                19,090
Unskilled labor employed (person-days)                                      5,256,874


The location of rehabilitated roads can be seen in the map at the end of this report. The
rehabilitated irrigation areas are too dispersed to be shown in the map. A detailed list of
all sub-projects is in the files.




                                              26
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


To confirm the economic soundness of the Project's investment in a series of clustered
projects under the NEEP umbrella and later on under NRAP, an ex-post evaluation has
been made on a sample of subprojects financed under the National Emergency
Employment Program for Rural Access (NEEPRA, IDA), the National Emergency
Employment Program for Reintegration and Alternative Livelihood (NEEPRAL, JSDF-
funded) and this project. The criteria for selecting subprojects under each project were
more or less similar and expected to yield the same end result. The overarching objective
of social protection cut across the three projects, and the design, implementation
arrangements, and delivery mechanism were the same. Implementation periods also
significantly overlapped, and they had similar social impacts. It is therefore concluded
that conclusions drawn about NEEPRA and NEEPRAL subprojects apply also to NEEP-
I, with a reasonable level of confidence. This was confirmed by the result of the
economic analysis carried out on one NEEP-I subproject included in the sample.

1.       Project Coverage: The project development objective was to assist the Recipient
in providing employment in rural areas at a minimum wage, as a safety net, to as many
people and in as short a time as might be feasible. NEEP-I completed 3,173 km of rural
access roads and 19,090 meters of cross-drainage structures. In addition 98 natural
resource management subprojects, 23 small irrigation subprojects and four large
irrigation subprojects (restoring flow to 15,000 hectares in the Shamalan area) were
completed. Of the 538 contracts awarded, 504 contracts were completed, and 34 contracts
were terminated or canceled for various reasons. Days of labor generated under the
project were 5.26 million. Subprojects under NEEP-I (and with further continuous
financing under the follow-on National Rural Access Projects) have now reached 358
districts in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan.

2.      Database: No monitoring and evaluation process was in place at the start of
implementation but a monitoring system was set up later. No impact evaluation was
carried out because of the very difficult country circumstances. The economic analysis is
therefore based on data drawn from several sources. The social audit report of NRAP,
covering 11 subprojects from nine districts and seven provinces, has documented the
qualitative impacts of rural access infrastructure investments: increased access to
motorized vehicles, public buses, health services, education facilities, employment
opportunities, mechanized agriculture, distant markets and developmental projects. Based
on these findings, case studies were conducted covering a sample of 14 subprojects
(including one under NEEP-I) distributed among 25 districts and 10 provinces. These
subprojects were equally divided between the implementing agencies (MPW and
MRRD), representing diversity in the contract levels and types of rural access
infrastructure investments. Secondary data were collected from project office documents
and health center records, traffic surveys, community-level interactions, focus group
discussions and assessment by the professional experts including the site engineers. They
were used to generate the needed database for quantifying the project benefits. Sampled
subprojects covered 126 km of rehabilitated rural roads and two bridges/culverts. The
total investment cost was $3.6 million, benefiting 182 villages and 73,873 families with a


                                           27
total population of 0.5 million. About half of the beneficiary families were farmers'
families directly cultivating agriculture lands.

3.     Project Benefits: Improved roads have generated multiple benefits providing
better access to basic services and facilities like education and health, economic
opportunities such as access to markets, employment and agriculture mechanization and
development projects, for example access to primary and secondary roads, power,
drinking water supply, housing and drainage improvements.

4.      Basic Services and Facilities: Rehabilitated sample rural roads provided better
connectivity to 23 hospitals and all villages located within a maximum distance of 7.5 km
from these hospitals took advantage of the improved access to health services.
Outpatients using the hospital facilities increased by 30%, women seeking pre-natal care
went up by 90%, and women seeking delivery care and services doubled during the post-
project period. The ratio of women availing themselves of prenatal services from these
hospitals went up from 41% to 51% in the benefited villages. As a result of improved
roads connectivity, 111 villages located along the sample roads got better access to
schools located nearby, as well as in the district centers. Enrolled students in 17 primary
schools, 22 secondary schools and 5 high schools connected by the sample roads
increased by 36% during the post-project period. The proportion of girls taking advantage
of education facilities increased from 29 to 36%.

5.      Economic Opportunities: Without the project, 151 villages experienced disruption
in road connectivity for 2.7 months in a year. With rehabilitated and improved roads
under the project, the disruption came down to 0.4 month in a year. The sample
subprojects collectively generated employment of 205,116 days worked during the
project implementation period, providing a wage rate of $3.30 per day. Disbursed wages
accounted for 19% of the actual infrastructure investments. In addition to this direct
employment, 157,342 days worked have also been generated annually due to expanded
agriculture and non-agriculture activities. The nominal wage rate went up by 24% and the
real wage rate increased by 9%, indicating improved labor productivity associated with
improved rural access infrastructure.

6.      Agriculture Impacts: Better road connectivity has triggered mechanized
cultivation of wheat and reduced the unit cost of wheat production in project benefited
villages. The cropped area went up by 19% and transportation cost for an average
distance of 15 km was halved. Improved roads facilitated higher profit margins for the
wheat-producing farmers, mainly driven by improved efficiency in agriculture; 90%
contributed by reduced unit costs of production and 10% by increased unit price due to
reduced transportation cost to the market. The number of pairs of oxen came down by
65%. The number of tractors used by the farmers in the benefited villages more than
doubled and the number of threshers used for wheat threshing more than tripled during
the post-project period. The area ploughed with tractors and wheat area covered by
threshers increased by about 150% during the post-project period.




                                            28
7.      More Development Projects: Better road connectivity facilitated more flow of
funds for other development projects in the villages connected by the improved road
network. Specifically, in the villages benefiting from improved road access, investment
projects covering infrastructure development (roads, power, housing and drainage),
economic development (livestock improvement, income-generating activities) and social
development (drinking water supply) have either been completed or are in an advanced
stage of completion. These completed and on-going projects, during the last three years,
in the NEEPRA beneficiary villages account for $2.7 million funded from various
national and international agencies, amounting to 75% of the NEEPRA-led infrastructure
investments in the sample roads.

8.      Economic Analysis: The sample roads covered 126 km of rehabilitated rural
access infrastructure. Incremental benefits due to improved rural roads come from
savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and savings in time taken for travel, which are
valued using the concept of consumer surplus. Underlying assumptions for the economic
analysis are: project life of 10 years; potential vehicle operating cost and time benefits
due to roads to be realized in four years in equal increments; average annual routine
maintenance cost for improved roads at 5% of the investment; average periodic
maintenance cost for improved roads at 8% of the investment; frequency of periodic
maintenance being twice during the project life; average annual growth in the motorized
traffic at 4.5% `with the project' and 1% `without the project'; and opportunity cost of
capital at 12%. The financial prices of non-traded goods and services have been adjusted
to economic prices using a factor of 0.8.

9.       VOC and time savings have been estimated for 13 types of vehicles using data on
traffic volume and travel time data available for the `before' and `after' project situations.
The needed database was drawn from available national data, a sample NEEP-I/NEEPRA
roads survey and professional experts/site engineers' judgment, supplemented with
similar rural road rehabilitation investments and experiences in South Asia, including
Pakistan and India. Average annual economic benefits from VOC savings are estimated
at $6,112 per km and average annual economic benefits from time savings are assessed at
$2,452 per km for the improved roads at 2007 prices. About 71% of the benefits result
from VOC savings and the other 29% comes from time savings.

10.     Economic Rate of Return: The estimated ERRs based on VOC and time savings
ranged from 5% to 46%. Out of 14 sample road investments, three subprojects yielded
the lowest ERRs ranging from 5 to 8%. Another five projects yielded 12 to 19%, while
the rest yielded a rate of return over 22%. The variation in return is probably due to
differences in the complexity (and hence cost) of the works and the volume of traffic.
When all the 14 sample projects are pooled together, the rural access infrastructure
investments generated a net present value of $2 million over 10-year project cycle with
an ERR of 22%. The actual rate of return to the NEEP-I/NEEPRA road investments will
be higher if some of the social benefits directly attributable to the improved roads can be
segregated and measured. These benefits are excluded in the rate of return analysis since
no systematic M&E and impact assessment was done. Convergence of complementary
development projects in the NEEPRA project areas will further help in exploiting the



                                             29
potential second-round employment and other benefits, but much depends on the
sustainability of the rural access infrastructure already rehabilitated under NEEPRA.

       Table 9: Economic Returns of Selected Roads under NEEP
                                                  Present Value ($000)
                   Road ID                                                     ERR
                                               Costs    Benefits     Net
 Ministry of Public Works
    NEEPRA-PW/023/NRHE/BKN/BR-042               $147       $105        ($42)    5%
    NEEPRA-PW/051/KUN/BGH-09                    $330       $947        $617    46%
    NEEPRA-PW-C2/KBE/KBL-010                    $317       $322          $5    12%
    NEEPRA-PW-C2/KBE/KBL-010                  $1,026     $1,121         $95    15%
    NEEPRA/PW/058/JAL/NAG/009                   $500       $789        $289    25%
    MPW/WB/NRAP/KBL/PRN/002/C2/001              $249       $593        $353    40%
    NEEPRA-PW/046/NORTH/SAM/003                  $47       $116         $69    38%
 Ministry of Rural Reconstruction &
 Development
    RRD/WB/NEEPRA/KBL/KBL/003                   $208       $485        $277    38%
    RRD/WB/NEEPRA/KBL/PRN/001                    $72        $81          $9    15%
    RRD/JF/RAL/KBL/KBL/001                      $369       $410        $401    14%
    RRD/PS/NRAP/MTC/EAST/LMN/003                $234       $178        ($56     6%
                                    @
    AFG/03/R8/East/NGR/001/C2/001                $82        $65        ($17     8%
    RRD/JF/RAL/NTH/BLH/002                      $670       $956        $286    22%
    RRD/WB/NEEP1/NTH/SMN/002*                   $374       $475        $101    19%
 Grand Total                                  $4,616     $6,643      $2,027    22%
       * funded from NEEP-I grant




                                          30
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
        Names                              Title                    Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                                   Specialty
                                    Lending/Grant Preparation
Amer Durani                  Sr. Transport Specialist         SASDT            Teak Team Leader
Hasan Azfal Zaidi            Transport Specialist             SASDT            Transport Specialist
                                         Supervision/ICR
Abdul Hameed Khalili         Operations Analyst               SASDT           Operations Mgmt.
Amer Zafar Durrani           Sr. Transport Specialist         SASDT           Former TTL
Anna Cestari                 Young Professional                YPP            Engineer
Asha Narayan                 Financial Analyst               SARFM            Financial Managemt
Christine Helen Allison      Lead Human Developmt Spec.       SASHD           Social Protection
Deepal Fernando              Sr. Procurement Specialist       SARPS           Procurement
Dhirendra Kumar              Consultant                       SARPS           Procurement
Hasan Afzal Zaidi            Transport Specialist             SASDT           Transport Specialist
Kenneth O. Okpara            Sr. Financial Management Spec. SARFM             Financial Managemt
Maha Ahmed                   Consultant                       SASDA           Gender
Mesfin Jijo                  Sr Transport Specialist          SASDN           ICR TTL
Mohammad Arif Rasuli         Environmental Spec.              SASDI           Environment
Mohammad Q. Haidari          Sr. Operations Officer           SASDT           Operations Mgmt.
Nagaraju Duthaluri           E T Consultant                   SARPS           Procurement
Naila Ahmed                  E T Consultant                   SASDA           Social Inclusion
Nobuo Yoshida                Economist                        SASPR           Economist
Palwasha Lena Kakar          Consultant                       SASDN           Social Safeguards
Rahimullah Wardak            Procurement Analyst              SARPS           Procurement
Rajesh Dongol                ACS                              SASDT           Team Assistant
Susanne Holste               Sr. Transport Specialist         SASDT           Former TTL
Vardah Khalil Malik          Assoc. Investment Off.          CGMP8            Finance
Zabi Ahrary                  ACS                              SACAF           Team Assistant
Zafar Iqbal Raja             Sr. Highway Engineer             SASDT           Engineering

(b) Staff Time and Cost
   Stage of Project                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Cycle            No. of staff weeks        $ 000 (including travel and consultant costs)
                                              Lending
  FY05                          10.05                                   41.78
  FY06                          11.18                                   27.56
  FY07                          24.26                                   64.82
                                         Supervision/ICR
  FY08                            1.3                                    1.88
  FY09                          12.4                                    22.12
  FY10                            2.8                                    2.39
                 Total:         61.99                                 160.55
Note: This project was supervised jointly with the two parallel projects being carried out under the
common NRAP umbrella. Hence staff inputs to each project were not recorded separately.




                                                   31
                         Annex 5. Summary of Grantee's ICR


I. Executive Summary

Introduction

In 1381, Afghanistan had entered a new era of peace after quarter century of conflict and
the new Transitional Islamic Government of Afghanistan was grappling with multitude of
problems. One of the primary areas of concern was poor infrastructure like roads,
bridges, irrigation system in rural areas. It is under this context, National Emergency
Employment Program (NEEP), later renamed National Rural Access Program (NRAP),
came into existence, to improve road/irrigation infrastructure and provide the much
needed income transfer to rural poor through short term employment.

National Rural Access Program is a National Priority Program, which finds strategic
relevance under the National Development Framework, Interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy (I-ANDS) Afghanistan Compact 2006 and Comprehensive
Agriculture and Rural Development (CARD) strategy. The Afghanistan Reconstruction
Trust Fund (ARTF) is the donor for this project, with contributions from agencies like
DFID, USAID, AusAID and CIDA. The trust fund is administered by World Bank.
NEEP 1 has been effective from 1381 (14th March 2003) to 1388 (31st March 2009). The
total value of the grant is USD 52.82 million.

NRAP strategy is "Nation-wide quality rehabilitation, reconstruction and maintenance of
essential rural access infrastructure using appropriate labor based approaches thereby
creating short term employment opportunities for the rural poor". The program consisted
of three main components dealing with Secondary Roads Implemented by MPW, Tertiary
roads implemented by MRRD and Irrigation component implemented by MIRWE, now
called Ministry of Energy and Water.

UNOPS was the implementation partner for NEEP and executed crucial tasks related to
Logistics, Survey and Design, Contracts management, Human Resources, Financial
management, Procurement and Facilities management. UNOPS played a significant role
in enhancing capacity of National Consultants, Ministry staff and contractors through
numerous training and capacity building initiatives.

Project Performance

NEEP focused on Labor Intensive Public Works for short term employment until NEEP
review in late 1383 which changed the program course. Program was renamed as NRAP
at this juncture and primary focus shifted to nature of infrastructure instead of emergency
relief. The program exceeded the intended outputs by a large margin and details are given
in Table 1.1. The program has received consistent satisfactory rating from ARTF from
1384 to 1387 for achieving the grant objectives and implementation.




                                            32
The main beneficiaries of this program were rural poor of Afghanistan who benefited
from improved roads and employment opportunities, program implementing ministries
like MPW, MRRD and MIRWE which gained from capacity building efforts and
program execution experience, local private contractors in terms of capacity building and
local shura/CDCs through community contract implementation experience.

As evident from Table 1, the program has surpassed expectations in terms of irrigation,
total length of structures including bridges, cross drainage and protection structures and
employment generated. The program has substantially achieved 98% of the roads target.

Table 1: Progress against targets specified in ARTF Amendment 3
 Performance Indicators         Baseline            Revised     Achieved to        Progress
                                                    targets        date
Roads (km)                         5,000               3,100        3,173              102%
Irrigation areas                  24,000             15,000        15,000              100%
rehabilitated (hectares)
Length of structures (m)           n.a              9,700           19,090             211%
Un-skilled labor days          4,780,000        5,200,000        5,256,874             101%

Factors affecting implementation

The main factors which affected Project implementation were Insecurity, Weak contracting
capacity, Project finance issues, NEEP Review and National ownership. While the initial three
factors affected implementation adversely, last two affected the project positively.

(a)     Insecurity- Due to the evolving and unpredictability of the security situation in certain
        parts of the country, the NRAP team found it very challenging to accurately forecast
        work plan, estimate construction costs, finish the project without delays and had limited
        international and national supervision in insecure areas due to UN MOSS movement
        requirements.

(b)     Weak contracting capacity -Weak contracting capacity due to the post conflict nature of
        the country also created implementation issues with respect to quality, cost and timely
        completion. Contractors generally had limited financial and staff capacity and UNOPS
        has conducted several capacity building activities to improve their capacity.

(c)     Project Finance issues- Funding delay of 12 months between ARTF Project approval and
        first tranche disbursement, exchange rate loss due to delayed grant amount disbursal, and
        absence of a multi year donor funding also affected project implementation negatively.

(d)     NEEP Review conducted in early part of 2005 brought a strategic shift to the program
        and focus changed from being a short term emergency program to long term sustainable
        program under National Rural Access Program. This review also suggested an improved
        management structure and the safety net objective were removed.

(e)     National ownership is another significant factor which has affected the program
        positively. Ministerial ownership at Planning and implementation has resulted in
        significant increase in capacity building.



                                               33
Lessons Learned

Some of the main lessons learned are as follows (a) Programmatic approach in financial
management allowed project to function without break, during project finance delays (b)
Clients were proactive and took timely course corrections at strategic level whenever
needed (c) Strong emphasis was placed on capacity building efforts for Ministry
counterparts, National Consultants and Local contractors (d) Ambitious Implementation
period and weak risk forecasting resulted in delay of target delivery (e) Lack of fixed
procurement plans resulted in frequent changes in plan and delayed works
implementation and (f) Level 1 community contracts are a good confidence building tool
for the involved communities and facilitated easier access to project sites and local
patronage (g) Capacity building efforts need to be targeted and performance oriented
instead of general targeting (h) Lack of baseline information and unreliable country
profile data negatively affected the quality of planning, target setting and evaluation of
impact

Recommendations

Under project design, for future projects, it is recommended to develop a program wide
investment planning and establish baseline data at the program outset. For future
projects, more systematic capacity building plans should be implemented throughout the
project cycle and more importance needs to be given in improving local contractor's
capacity. Considering delays in project implementation due to UN MOSS movement
requirements, it is recommended to bring some possible changes and flexibilities in
contracting modalities of project staff in order to assure on time and proper supervision of
sub-project sites.

Conclusion

Despite various external constraints, the Government has been able to successfully
complete the program, exceed output expectation and secure further funding for next
phase of NRAP, i.e. NERAP. Capacity has been built among ministry staff, national
consultants and local contractors, although more targeted approach needs to be adopted
for future programs. The intended beneficiaries have benefited directly or indirectly
through NRAP and this has been a program where it was nationally planned and locally
executed with optimum usage of local people and resources.




                                            34
                     Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1.    ARTF Application for NEEP-I.
2.    ARTF Application for Additional Financing of NEEP-I.
3.    ARTF Grant Agreement ­ March 14, 2003.
4.    Afghanistan Transitional Support Strategy, March 12, 2002.
5.    Afghanistan Transitional Support Strategy, February 14, 2003.
6.    Technical Annex for Emergency community Empowerment and Public Works
      Project, May 13, 2002.
7.    Grant Reporting and Monitoring Reports (GRM), 2004, 2005, 2006.
8.    ARTF Grant Agreement Amendments-No.1, No.2 and No.3.
9.    Aide Memoirs for NEEP/NERAP Cluster Projects.
10.   Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR), February 2009.
11.   "The Road from Emergency Employment towards Integrated Rural Access-Re-
      orientation of the Afghanistan national emergency Employment program to the
      Rural Access Program", Report No. 19, South Asia Human development Sector,
      Sustainable Development Sector, November 2006.
12.   National Emergency Employment Program Phase-1, Final Completion Report,
      UNOPS, June 25, 2009.
13.   National Emergency Employment Program, Final Review Report.
14.   Implementation Completion and Results Report, NEEPRAL, WB, Report No.
      48602, May 29, 2009.
15.   Implementation Completion and Results Report, NEEPRA, WB, Report No.
      ICR0000625, June 20, 2008.
16.   Implementation Completion and Results Report, ECEPWP, WB, Report No.
      33120-AF.




                                       35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 37438

                 60° E                                                                           65° E                                                                                                                         70° E                                                                               75° E


                                                                                                                              UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAJIKISTAN                                                               TAJIKISTAN
                                                                      TURKMENISTAN
                         AFGHANISTAN

                                                                                                             JAWZJAN                                                                                                                                Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TAKHAR
                                                                                                                                          BALKH
                                                                                                                                         Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                          ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                      KUNDUZ
                                                                                                                                             Sharif
                                                                                                                                                 ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                            Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                       Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¯ ¯
                                                                                                     Sheberghan
                                                                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                    Saripul                                                                Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯
                                                                                                                                                             Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                   ¯


                                                                                                Meymaneh

                                                                                    FA RYA B                                                                                                    BAGHLAN
                                                                                                             SA R I P UL                                SAMANGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PANJSHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bazarak
35° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NURISTAN
                                                                         BADGHIS                                                                                                                                        ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahmud-e Raqi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯¯                                                                                 35° N
                                                          Qal`eh-ye                                                                                                                                                                            Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯ ¯
                                                           Now                                                                                                                                PARWAN                  KAPISA                                      Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                       Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                        ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                          B A M YA N                                                            Charikar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KUNAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                  Herat
                                                     ¯                               Chaghcharan
                                                                                              ¯                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KABUL                                             LAGHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                 Meydan Shahr                    KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                 WARDAK
                                  HERAT                                                                                                                                                                         LOGAR              NANGARHAR
                                                                                   GHOR                                                                                                    Pol-e `Alam
                                                                                                              Khadir

                                                                                                                  D AY K U N D I                                                                                      PAKTYA
                                                                                                                                                                              Ghazni
                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯                                Gardiz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯       KHOST
                                                                                                                                                         GHAZNI                                                            Kowst

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sharan

                                                               FARAH                                       URUZGAN
                                                                                                                  Tarin Kowt
                                                                                                                    ¯                                                                                                                                                  PAKISTAN
      LA
  I S L A MI C                                  Farah
                                                   ¯                                                                           ZABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                          PAKTIKA
           LI
 RE P UB L I C                                                                                                                            Qalat
                                                                                                                                             ¯

 O F I RA N
                                                                                                              Kandahar
                                                                                                                    ¯                                                                                                                  70° E
                                                                                 Lashkar Gah
                                                                                          ¯




                                                                       HILMAND                   KANDAHAR                                                                                                                                                                AFGHANISTAN
                                       Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
                                       NIMROZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHASE 1 PROJECT (NEEP 1)
30° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                               0                50               100               150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            30° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT ROADS                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                               0                           50                         100 Miles

                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               PROJECT BRIDGES                       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  60° E                                                   PAKISTAN                      65° E                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DECEMBER 2009
