Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No, 8335
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1945-ME)
FEBRUARY 2, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BANRURAL    - National Bank for Rural Credit
CONASUPO    - National Marketing Corporatior. for Basic Foods
DGDUT       - General Directorate of Rainfed Districts and Units
DGPEA       - General Directorate for Production and Agricultural Extension
DT          - Distrito de Temporal (Rainfed District)
FICAR       - Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas                                    LU
FIRA        - Agriculture Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
GIRA        - General Interest Rates Agreement
GOM         - Government of Mexico
INIA        - National Institute for Crop Research
INIF        - National Institute for Forestry Research
INIP        - National Institute for Livestock Research
M&E         - Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFINSA     - Nacional Financiera. S.A.
PCR         - Project Completion Report
PIDER       - Investment Program for Rural Development
PLANAT      - National Plan for Rainfed Agriculture Development
PROCATI     - Producer Organization, Training, Extension and Research Project
PRODERITH   - Program for Development of the Humid Tropics
SAP         - Special Assistance Program
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SARH        - Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SPP         - Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
TCC         - Technical Coordination Committee



FOR OMIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oite of Ov,ctw.Qnsel
February 2, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
Rainfed Agricultural Development Proiject (Loan 1945-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Rainfed Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1945-ME))" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office with Part II of the rencrt contributed bv the Borrower.  No autdit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
ofhs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



WOk OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1945-ME)
TABLE OF CONTEC1S
Page No.
PREFACE                              .....
EVALUATION SMRY                                                     {i...ii
PART   I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM  BANK PERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity .      .......                          3
2. Background                   .         ......3
3.  Project Objectives and Description .          .          3
4.  Project Design and Organization.                         4
5. Project Implementation.                                   5
6.  Project Results        s      u     l     ts.. ........ .  6
7. Project Sustainability.                                   7
8.  Bank Performance..                  .      ....          8
9.  Borrower Performancer ............        ........ ..    9
10.  Project Relationship ........................... -   10
11. Consulting Services .             .                      10
12.  Project Doc-u=ntation and Data ................         10
PART  II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S STANDPOINT
1.  Introduction         ............................... .   15
2.  Bank Performance .      . ..............................   15
3.  Government Performaeee .         .........................   16
4.  Results Achieved .           ...............................   16
5.  Lessons Learned .      . ..............................    18
PART III.  SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
Table  1. Related Bank Loan . . ..........................  21
Table  2. Project Timetable . . ...........................  22
Table  3. Loan Credit Disbursements.....................  24
Tables 4. Project Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs          .............  26
B. Project Financing   .....                         28
Tables 5. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits             .......  29
B.  Internal Rates of Return . . ................  31
Table  6. Status of Covenant ........................... .      32
Tables 7. Use of Staff Resources
A.  Staff Inputs .      . ............................  33
B.  Missions .      .      ............................  35
MAP - IBRD 14946
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of -*     * '   *  Its       i mi r not otherwise be d&  A without World Bank authorizati



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1945-ME)
Preface
This document is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (Loan No. 1945-ME). The loan,
Guarantee, and Project Agreements were signed on March 2. 1981. Of the
loan total of US$280 million, the disbursed amount was US$197.1 million;
the last disbursement was on April 3, 1986. A total of US$82.9 million was
cancelled by the Borrower.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department II, Latin America and Caribbean Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR iv based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan,
Guarantee and Project agreements, supervision reports, correspondence with
the 3orrower and internal Bank memoranda on project implementation and the
Borrower's Project Completion Report dated September 1988.
The Borrower's project data base was destroyed during the
September 19, 1985 earthquake. As a consequence, certain information
(especially on project results) is unobtainable or incomplete. Bank
officials* directly associated with the project were consulted to
compensate for some record losses.
* Project appraisal agricultural economist, financial analyst and forester;
four project task managers, a financial monitor and a portfolio manager.



- Li -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPOR¶
k4EKICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1945-ME)
EV'.LUATION SU?LARY
1.       The National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Areas (PLANAT) was
launched in 1977 to accelerate agriculture production in the rainfed areas
of the country, which in the past had not benefitted from adequate
investment. It was estimated that these account for three quarters of the
cropped land and provide livelihood for about 87X of all farmers. Rainfed
areas were considered to have extensive potential but at that time
contributed less than 50S of the value of agricultural output. PLANAT was
to increase cropped area and productivity through applicarion of improved
technology supported by applied research, extension services, credit and
remunerative produce prices for basic grains.
Ob4 Ictives
2.       The Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1945-ME) was to
assist PLANAT to (a) improve lnstitutions for agricultural research,
extension, training, infrastructure and credit at the national and district
level and (b) increase farm productivity in nine (later 11) rainfed
districts (DTs) representing different ecological zones. A pilot program
was to be developed to strengthen and coordinate activities related to these
obaet4v aa-  Tt TnVolved apprOX4MOte]y- ?0 l4ue poe4e  anoA g-e-"A      f- e-
participation and provided for establishment of an effective field-level
extension system following the training and visit (T&V) system backstopped
by coordinated field research.  The program was to become a model for
replication to all 124 rainfed districts.
3.       Project components were focused at national level to provide
research to support activities undertaken at the DT level, training of
technical staff and specialized consultant services in extension, research,
soil conservation, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E); and at district
level to (a) improve farm extension, (b) support farmer-field level research
in crops, livestock and forestry, (c) expand soil and water conservation,
(d) carry out a forestry program, (e) expand rural works and (f) provide
short and medium-term credit through private banks and BANRURAL.
Implementation Experience
4.       The project had a good start.  Government gave high priority to
assistance for PLANAT and program preparation was t'ell underway by
identification time (4-19?9). Project preparation (8-1979 to 6-1980) went
smoothly and quickly with very good rapport and collaboration between
Government and the Bank. SARH, the project executing agency, made every
effort to design an effective program for rainfed districts by involving in
the process all related agencies at national and local level. The project's
conceptual framework was sound and innovative for its time. There were few
Issues during project appraisal; they related to: project size;
organization and management mechanisms of coordination; ensuring timeliness
of annual budget allocations; and the appropriateness of including credit
*for Bank financing. Originally project cost was estimated at US$60 million;
but later it was increased to US$797 million, of which US$280 million was to
be Bank financed.  These issues were resolved by the time of Board approval
(8-1980).



5.       Project implementation went well until 1982.  Administrative
details were refined ard counterpart funds were allocated as envisioned.
Certain physical targats, such as warehouse construction, progressed better
than expected. Coordinating mechanis-ms at DT level functioned
satisfactorily, although variation among districts begar to surface once
counterpart funds started to shrink and administrative changes, external to
the project, were introduced.
6.       The lack of sustained counter part funds for rainfed districts was
the most critical variance between planned and actual implementation.
Within 18 months after project effectiveness the Mexican economy encountered
tremendous declines and constraints. The expected oil revenues did not
materialize and by 1982, two devaluations had to be undertaken. In
addition, certain administrative reforms modified institutional arrangements
for extension, research and project implementation and changed priorities so
that the PLANAT model could not be realized as envisioned. The Bank took
special actions to facilitate disbursement by including the project in the
Special Assistance Program, modifying the percentage of financing, and
reallocating funds to credit categories. Government continued to support
the project until 1986 but ended by cancelling US$82.8 million of the US$280
million loan.
Results
7.       Despite problems encountered, PLANAT did achieve many of the
expected results. A M&E system was established and did provide useful and
consistent auantfltAt{va Inf-mastI4nna n   4     r- n-gree *ntil t.he Sept^
1985 earthquake. Significant ..chievements were: (a) a larger than expected
number of farmers benefitting from credit, (b) successful completion of 8ost
rural works subcomponents, extensive short-term training of extensionists,
and (c) numerous research trials affecting farmers' fields and covering many
hectares. Shortfalls were in feeder roads, provisions for operations and
maintenance, forestry, long-term training and the use of consultants.
Sustainability and FindinRs
8.       The project was too ambitious in size and scope and too complex in
design. Risk examination stressed institutional and climatic considerations
because the prevailing assumption in 1980-81 was that oil revenues would
contliue to grow. However, a smaller project design might have survived the
financial crisis and adapted more easily to the sweeping 1984 administrative
reorganization.
9.       The bank was over-optimistic in assessing the Borrower's potential
to financially sustain and replicate the project. It also had insufficient
understanding of SARH's institutional vulnerability to external and internal
changes and the effect these can have on a new, fragile program such as
PLANAT.
10.      The Borrower, like the Bank, relied too heavily on the premise that
provision of an administrative structu:e for rainfed districts would resolve
this subsector's weaknesses. Administrative changes were made with little
apparent analysis of their implications, resulting in significant



- iv -
differences in the quality of programs among DTs. It became difficult for
Government to justify the expected level of resources flows to such a small
number of DTs. Qualitative assessment of more innovative project components
was not documented over the project life. As a result of these weaknesses
and the loss of project records at national level during the 1985
earthquake, it is difficult in any comprehensive manner to extract from the
PLANAT experience the elements which would merit replication. Nevertheless,
area-specific successes in three of PLANAT's rainfed districts were
incorporated in the new Bank-financed extension project (Loan 2859-ME
PROCATI).
11.      PLANAT did demonstrate thit research institutes can be reoriented
towards solving local production problemse in collaboration with district
level extension staff, provided that adequate resources are given and
provision is made for regular discussions between district technicians,
research personnel and farmers.  Once the institutional structure vf PLANAT
was modified, only the most successful and aggressive district level chiefs
were able to continue to secure budgetary allocations for their programs. A
1984 Bank evaluation of extension services credited PLANAT with having
districts which functioned better than regular DTs because the level of
management expertise was higher, adequate resources were available for
essential infrastructure, and many works were carried out with self-help
from farmer groups organized by field technicians. Government has also
cited human resources development and certain technical packages resulting
from PLANAT research as having had significant impact. In addition,
personnel involved in PLANAT operations, especially where the enabling
f-otitnti^--a   va- meni-rnet          w-l,; geined iseful experience.
12.      The Borrower and the Bank agree the main lesson learned from PLANAT
includes: the need for more careful assessment of resource implications and
in-depth understanding and definition of institutional arrangements during
project preparation; and providing more balanced and technical supervision,
and sustained interest in and concern for project oeneficiaries and
replicable project components during implementation. An additional lesson
is the need to examine both quantitative and qualitative project
achievements, especially the sustainability of technical and institutional
capacity, when the project is completed.



m E x I C O
RAI1D ACULTURAL DOE0PMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW MRON   NK PERPECTIVE



-3-
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW ROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:       Rainfed Agricultural Development rroject
Loan No. :          1945-ME
RVP Unit :          IT2AG
Country  :          Mexico
Sector   s          Agriculture
Subsector:          Rural Development                                           n
2. BACKGROUND
2.1      Sector development obiective:  The objective was to accelerate
Xriculture production in rainfed areas of the country, which in the past
aad not benefitted from adequate investment.   These areas account for
about three quarters of the cropped land and provide livelihood to about
871 of all farmers while contributing less than 50Z of the value of
agricultural output.
2.2      Policy contexts  Cropped area was to be increased and a major
effort launched to increase significantly the productivity of rainfed lands
through application of improved technology supported by applied research,
extension services, credit and remunerative produce prices for basic
grains.
2.3      Linkaaes between prolect, sector and macropolicy objectives:  The
project was to help overcome deficiencies in extension, research,
infrastructure and credit by developing a pilot program tihich coordinated
these aspects with the greater participation of farmers and thereby provide
a model for extension to all 124 rainfed districts. Through the National
Program for Assistance to Rainfed Areas (PLANAT), the Government intended
to strengthen and coordinate the activities of approximately 20 line
agencies with responsibilities for various aspects of agricultural
development in rainfed zones. The potential of these areas (two thirds
have good soils and adequate and reliable rainfall) was to be secured
through intensive cropping using known technologies, introduction of new
crops, and expanding the area under cultivation.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1      Proiect objectivess  The project was (a) to improve institutions
for agricultural research, extension and training at the national and



- 4-                                                  I
district level and (D) to increane farm productivity in nine (later eleven)
rainfed districts (DTs) represe'-tative of different ecological zcnes in the
country. The key element of the program was the establishment of an
effective field-level extension system following the model of the training
and visit (T&V) system backstopped by coordinated field research. The
project was to establish the basis for subsequent intensive development in
other rainfed districts.
3.2      ComDonents:  At the national level the project was to provide
research to support activities undertaken at the DT level, training of
techeical staff and specialized consultant services in extension, research,
soil conservation, monitoring and evaluation (MOE). In the districts,
planned activities cansisted of (a) improving a farm extension proaram by
following the general model of the T&V system, decentralizing staff, and
intensifying coverage; (b) supporting extension with production system
farmer-field level research in crops, livestoc' and forestry by
establishing the most productive farming systems for specific areas; (c)
strengthening and expanding soil and water conservation programs and
linking these to extension; (d) carrying out a forestry program; (e)
expanding the rural work of small scale irrigation and drainage, feeder
roads, coumunity warehouses, regional training centers, district and unit
development centers, animal pathology laboratories and resea th centern;
and (f) providing short and medium-term credit through private banks sad
BANRURAL.
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1      The conceptual foundation of the project was sound and innovative
for its time. Government assigned high priority to realigning investment
priorities to rainfed areas. Establishing the institutional structure to
integrate, at national and district levels, the mix of agriculture and
financial support services was to ensure that priority would be sustained.
4.2      Recurring issues during project preparation and appraisal
concerned loan size, inclusion of credit and its terms, ensuring timely
flow of funds and management coordination. In January 1979, the first
Project Brief estimated total project cost at US$60 million of which Bank
financing was to be 10-15S. By March 1980, the Decision Memorandum
recommended a Bank loan size ranging between US$250 and 285 million.
Availability of counterpart funds did not surface as a problem before 1982,
one year after loan effectiveness and the year of two (February and August)
currency devaluations. Ultimately, the scale of financing became too
ambitious and the Government had to cancel US$82.8 million of the loan.
4.3      Regarding credit, issues focused on whether to provide both short-
and medium-term credit, the implication of subsidy rates over the project
life, and defining incrementality for reimbursement of short-term loans.
It was agreed to include in the project both kinds of rates (short and
medium). However, the subsidy issue was not explicitly resolved in the
final project design.  Adjustments in interest rates were a constant
supervision issue. The incrementality issue required FIRA, assigned to
discount short-term subloans, to substantiate that subloans submitted for
Bank reimbursement were incremental over commercial lending of previous
years. To meet this requirement was very difficult as adequate measures
for doing so were not defined until April 1983.



- 5 -
4.4      There were various institutional mechanismst  a revolving fund for
financial carryovers and for coordination, a national technical
coordinating committee (TCC), a PLANAT Office, and district execu s'e,
technical and credit coordinating committees. While these were designed to
safeguard annual financial flows and coordination, they proved modestly
successful. They sustained operations during the project life, but their
design was limited due to fc±lure to define in greater detail institutional
responsibilities. As a result the introduction of major reorganization and
decentralization in 1984 in SARH further diminished the design relevance.
In the final analysis, the pioject design was very complex and lacked
sufficient details on institutional arrangements. Provisions for
coordination and monitoring and evaluation defined after project
e'.rectiveness tried to reduce this to manageable levels.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1      The most critical variance between planned and actual
implementation was the lack of sustained counterpart funds for rainfed
districts. As a result, priorities changed and many institutional,
technical and proau_tive eAqectations, especially the nationwide
replication of the PLAZAT model, did not materialise. In addition, the new
Administration of 1982 became sensitive to PLANAT channeling large
investments to few rainfed districts and was not inclined to further
…dl-ltort tte activitiee of DGDUT, Part ITII  Tablee 3 and & of thie
document identify specific target variances in disbursements and financing.
5.2      Given the tremendous constraints which the Mexican economy began
to encounter within 18 months after project effectiveness, it is doubtful
that these variances could have been avoided. Risk examination focused on
institutional and climatic aspects as there was a general assumption oil
revenues would continue to escalate. (Still in August 1981, these were
reported during supervision to be only 'temporarily" reduced.) Had the
project scale been kept as initially envisioned, the costs would have been
less. However, some of the benefits would also not have been achieved.
5.3      Contributing to the ecov'mic and finavlial difficulties were the
effects of two major reorganizations. In 1979r, the main extension service
(DGPEA) was merged with the Rainfed Administration (DGDUT) where no
effective central unit was established to continue the national
coordinating function of DGPEA. Extension services became the direct
responsibility of each rainfed district chief. Implementation and
significance of these institutional changes did not become apparent until
the first project supurvision report (8-21-81) and certainly was
underestimated for a iumber of years. In March 1984, the Bank observed in
a letter to SARH that the "lack of central technical coordination and
support now appeared to present a serious weakness" in staff selection,
training and provision of career-oriented incentives. By November 1984,
the Bank concluded that this factor contributed to considerable differences
between PLANAT districts in quality and approach.
5.4      In February 1985, reorganization was again undertaken this time as
part of a vast reshuffling and decentralization effort resulting from the
new Administration of 1982. Overall project coordination was changed and
greater operational responsibility was delegated to the state level SARH



delegates and new rural development district (DDR) chiefs. (DDRs merged
irrigation and rainfed districts.) The Bank supported this move, although
it was clear that it resulted in accentuating the variations from state to
state. At the same time, the research component was recognized as quite
ambitious in having to provide immediate support to development in the
PLANAT districts and simultaneously beginning to define technology for
obtaining production increases in many additional rainfed districts.
5.5      Other institutional aspects which encountered difficulties were:
delay in the establishment of the national level Technical Coordinating
Committee (TCC), which the Government considers hampered project
coordination until 1984 (See Part II); diminishing effectiveness of the
revolving fund to ensure timely financial flows; delay in defining terms
for project auditing and verification of accounts; and the absence of an
institutional focal point responsible only for road development.
5.6      The auditlaccounts delay may not have been avoided as this matter
also encompassed other Bank financed projects. While audits and
verification of accounts were Sometimes late in their submission to the
Bank and prepared according to norms of the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de
Seguros which vary from normally accepted accounting principles, project
covenants appear to have been satisfied.
5.7      The Bank arranged for special supervision of the feeder roads
subcomponent when variance in implementation became pronounced. The
mission noted that most civil works were new construction rather than 702
rehabilitation and 30X new works and that roads in most districts (where
visited) were receiving little or no maintenance. However, the quality of
construction, a concern during appraisal, was considered satisfactory.
5.8      The Bank took special actions to facilitate disbursement:
including the project in the Special Assistance Program, modifying the
percentage of financing, and reallocating funds to the credit categories.
The degree to which credit helped loan disbursement performance is
evidenced from the following: at appraisal it constituted 38.62 of Bank
financing; by project closing, it reached 71.72.
5.9      Despite the above financial constraints and administrative
changes, the Government reports in its PCR that a great many of expected
project results actually were realized.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1      Table 5A in Part III of this document provides a summary of
quantitative project results as compared with appraisal. It should be
ncted that in 1981, with a consultant's assistance, a workable, if somewhat
complex and cumbersome, monitoring and evaluation system was established in
PLANAT. This system did provide regular quantitative data for Bank
supervision missions and annual progress reports until 1984 and 1985 for
some individual rainfed districts. Progress until these years appeared
satisfactory for most major indicators and targets. The most significant
achievements were: (a) a much larger than expected number of farmers who
benefitted from credit, (b) successful completion of most rural works
subcomponents, extensive shoLt-term training of extensionists, and (d) very



numerous research trials affecting farmers' fields and covering many
hectares. Shortfalls were in feeder roads, provisions for operations and
maintenance, forestry, long-term training and the use of consultants.
6.2      Variances between planned and actual or estimated results are
partly attributed to budgetary constraints and to the reallocation of loan
resources from noncredit to credit categories. Some known causes for these
resource changes are: an apparent greater interest by participating
farmers in such civil works as community warehouses rather than roads, a
strong push for training in SARH program and procedural changes of resource
management (as opposed to more technical subject matters), and different
capacities of research institutions.
6.3      Credit was by far the most important result of project investment,
benefitting a significant number of farmers. However, it is not clear what
effects it had on the lending institutions' overall operations or lending
policies, especially on interest rates, or otherwise.
6.4      Table 5B provides information on the differences of the economic
and financial rates of retarn between appraisal and completion. As data is
incomplete and such rates of return are no longer required by the Bank for
projects with credit and extension, the tables have been provided merely as
points of information.
6.5      Project impact was estimated by the Government in its PCR of
September 1988 and is summarized in Part II of this report. However, real
impact cannot be ascertained not only due to data gaps but also problems of
causality and correlation. Hence, benefits are at best Langential and
impressionistic. SARH officials responsible for PCR preparations Indicated
human resource development and certain technical packages resulting from
PLANAT research constituted significant project impact. Experience gained
in PLANAT districts, especially where the enabling institutional
arrangements functioned well, were cited as particular examples of more
long-term benefit. Bank evaluation of extension servicea in 1984
specifically credit PLANAT districts with having functioned better than
regular DTs since:
(a) the level of management expertise was higher,
(b) they had more budget for essential infrastructure, and
(c) many of the works were carried out as self-help
programs by farmer groups organized by field
technicians.
6.6      In addition, three of PLANAT's most successful DTs were
incorporated in the new Bank financed extension project (Loan No. 2859-ME,
PROCATI), which also supported completion of several PLANAT civil works
(e.g., equipping a pathology laboratory).
7. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1      With a lack of project counterpart funds and changes in project
priority, management and institutional configuration, PLANAT ceased to



- 8 -
exist as originally conceived. Present administrative and financial
arrangements prevent clear budgetary differentiation of resource flows to
former DTs. Hence, overall project sustainability is no longer a relevant
consideration.
7.2      Nevertheless, some measures indicate continuing effects at farm
level attributable to PLANAT. A SARH 1988 survey of nine DTs demonstrated
ongoing crop diversification, increased mechanization and use of modern
'nputs and satisfactory marketing of produce due to warehouse and feeder
road improvements. It will be important for farmers and Government to
provide operations and maintenance support to completed infrastructure if
these benefits are to be sustained.
8. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1      Main strengths of the Bank's performance were good sector
knowledge, design capability, support to Government during project
development and supervision in the first four years of project life.
Weaknesses concern (a) over optimistic assessment of Borrower's financial
sustainability to implement the project and under estimation of future
financial implications for project to be extended nationwide and (b)
insufficient understanding of SARH's institutional vulnerability, internal
and external to the project. In addition, inclusion of the credit
component and its implications on the financial system could have been more
carefully considered.
8.2      Project preparations went quickly, encountering few problems, due
to the existence of the rainfed program since 1977 and the considerable
technical diagnostic work that SARH had been carrying out since 1979. Bank
preparation and appraisal products encountered very few technical issues
during review stages with the exception of credit. Issues focused on
financing and confirming institutional arrangements for coordination.
8.3      Supervision was meticulous and fairly consistent through 1984.
All 11 DTs were visited and half of these had over 3 supervisions each.
However, supervision included few technical specialists (e.g., for
extension, livestock, forestry, credit). There was good support provided
for financial accounting and auditing and careful follow up on standards
agreed to between the Bank and Borrower (see Part III, Table 6). Once
project priority declined, Bank interest was largely confined to loan                    Lo
financial disbursement concerns. The last Bank supervision to DTs was in
November 1985, by when physical works were one and a half years behind                   ax
estimates while disbursements reached their highest level (95.5X) in
relation to appraisal (Table 3). Use of Bank staff resources shows a
steady decline already in 1985 and especially after 1985 (Table 7A).  Loss
of PLANAT monitoring and evaluation records due to the September 1985
earthquake further reduced incentives to examine overall project results,
especially at farm level.
8.4      Lessons for future Bank-financed projects are to:  (a) include an
institutional development specialist in project preparation, appraisal and
supervision; (b) examine more carefully the direct relevance of individual
project components to objectives during project review; (c) provide more



technical support during supervision to project subcomponents, in this case
especially credit and forestry; and (d) to sustain interest in and concern
for the beneficiaries during the life of the project.
9.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1      Strengths and weaknesses of the Borrower's performance also relate
directly to financial and administrative changes external to PLANAT.
During 1979-1981, SARH made every effort to design an effective program for
rainfed districts. The project was prepared by SARHIDGDUT with the
cooperation of the other agriculture agencies that were to participate in
project execution. Individual district development plans were prepared by
district scaff under supervision of the district technical committee, which
included representatives of beneficiaries and all project executing
agencies. There also was a high willingness through 1984 to make
institutional arrangements operate efficiently and as originally envisioned
and to take remedial action when it was suggested by the Bank (except on
matters concerning credit interest rates, which always involved difficult
discussions). In the early years of the project, highly capable managers
were assigned to key project execution levels. However, the Borrower like
the Bank relied too heavily on the premise that provision of an
administrative structure for rainfed districts would resolve this
subsector's weaknesses. Once this structure was changed and fi-aancial
constraints began to arise, only the most successful and aggres3ive
district level chiefs were able to continue to secure budgetary allocations
for their programs.
9.2      The project also illustrates the dif_iculties of maintaining
priorities from one Administration to another. Not only did the new 1982
Administration bring reorganization but there seemed to have been little
attempt to analyze the implication of administrative reform on program
continuity and to ensure benefits accrued at that time would be sustained.
As a result, the qualitative assessment during the project life of some
project components have not been adequately documented. Among these are a
synthesis of completed research which clearly delineates technical
solutions for different climatic zones, an assessment of the training
component of the project, a review of what aspects of district level
institutional structures were the most successful and what specifically of
the T and V model was ultimately not implemented and required a new frontal
attack as now designed under PROCATI. SARH is ay-Tare of these weaknesses,
and attributes PLANAT record losses and lack of r:esources to have been the
primary causes for such shortfalls. However, there also was no attempt
after the record damages to reestablish the PLANAT monitoring and
evaluation system, leaving doubt as to the priority these matters may have.
9.3      Nevertheless, while comprehensive and systematic assessment
haslcould not be made of project performance there are a few documented
examples of lessons learned. PLANAT demonstrated it is possible to orient
research institutes towards solving local production programs and
collaborating with district-level extension staff, provided that adequate
resources are given and provision is made for regular discussions between
district technicians, research personnel and farmers. In districts with
strong chiefs, farmers were mobilized and willing to extend rural works by
contributing labor and local savings and by organizing to manage the



- 10 -
infrastructure efficiently after Government support was finished. Where
district chiefs were weak or less experienced and works were not budgeted
to appropriate directorates, the works invariably received low priority and
often were not ctompleted.
10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.1     Bank-Borrower relationships were very good during project
preparation; somewhat difficult during negotiation on such matters as loan
size, level of Bank financing and terms for the project lending component;
and quite supportive during most of project implementation. Borrower
relations with project-related executing agencies were normal and field
coordination, while varying among districts, was generally as well as could
be expected, given the above-mentioned constraints. Institutional
relations do not appear to have been a major constraint in project
execution.
11. CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1     Consulting services were used for development of PLANAT's
monitoring and evaluation system (7/1981), review of the feeder roads
subcomponent (6/1984), and implementation of a seeds subsector residue
study (11/1984). The products these services produced were considered
useful by the Bank and Borrower. The Bank urged on many occasions for the
Borrower to use consulting services to strengthen technical training and
backstopping of field extension. This appears not to have materialized.
12. PROJECT DOCUMENITATION AND DATA
12.1     Legal agreements for this project provided a generally useful
framework. Modifications, introduced subsequent to project signing, were
for the most part due to the deteriorating economic situation in the
country and the need tc provide greater specification for project lending
terms. Major changes in the loan, project and guarantee agreements
occurred in 1984 when PLANAT was included in the SAP and GIRA. The purpose
of these changes was to facilitate disbursements. The most persistent
project aspect requiring greater specification was the credit component
which often had to be adjusted to reflect changes in the economy. A
special Bank mission in early 1983 to review accounting for all SARH
projects worked out agreements with Mexican authorities on procedures and
timetables that were to apply to PLANAT. These arrangements were then
included in the 1984 loan and guarantee agreements. On the balance, the
project seemed to have a normal number of required legal changes which for
the most part could not have been easily foreseen. Table 5 provides more
detail on specific covenant changes.
12.2     The Staff Appraisal Report provided a great deal of details,
(e.g., Annex 2 alone contained 143 Tables outlining cost projections for
every project component). Information was organized by district and
component which facilitated supervision work. However, one major factor
diminished the SAR's usefulness: leaving the details of certain



- 11 -
institutional arrangements and functions for later definition. This was
done with the national level TCC, and the functions of training, monitoring
and evaluation, auditing and account verification, civil works contract
submissions to the Bank. As a result, it took considerable time before
certain functions at national level were in full operation, and some not
until 1984, when budget constraints and administrative reform began to
limit the effectiveness of PLANAT's institutional base. Thus over time,
the SAR ceased being the main cocumant for PLANAT project design details,
but always served as the basis for understanding the project concept.
12.3     When SARH lost 50% of its Mexico City office space in the 1985
earthquake, they decided not to replace it, but rather to accelerate the
1984 administrative reform and decentralization. This decision prevented a
national level reconstruction of PLANAT records and gave great difficulties
to SARH in the preparations of the PCR. The Government is very well aware
of the damage this caused and has taken measures for preventing similar
losses in the future.



- 13 -
M E X I C O
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S STANDPOINT



- 15 -
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1945-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART II
REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE BORROWER'S STANDPOINT
1.          Introductign
1.1         On behalf of the borrower, the Secret.-ia de Agricultura y
Recursos Hidraulicos, Subsecretaria de Planeaci6n, D.reccibn General de
Politica y Evaluaci6n Sectorial prepared a project completion report in
September 1988. The full report, in Spanish, is in the project files. It
contains a detailed descripcion of project implementation and of the
Government's views on various aspects of the project. It presents data on the
areas and population groups considered to have benefited from the project. It
examines production increases achieved for various agricultural products.
This section contains summary information from this report, focusing on the
Government's views and the conclusions reached regarding its own and the
Bank's performance and the lessons to be learned from the project.
2.          Bank Performance
2.1         Supervision was concentrated on the districts receiving the
largest share of project investments. Supervision helped to maintain as a
priority activity the completion of ongoing infrastructure works before ochers
were initiated.. However, there was no continuous supervision by the Bank of
project activities in districts that received smaller amounts of resources
(such as Villahermosa, Emiliano Zapata, and Tabasco).
2.2         The Bank's willingness to increase its share of funds and
incorporate new components reduced the slowdown in project execution.
2.3         It became clear that for purposes of project evaluacLon ic is
necessary to create a group containing Bank personnel and project participants
to jointly define evaluation and monitoring criteria.



- 16
3.          Government Performance
3.1         The project was implemented in districts and covered an area of 5.7 m.
of ha. These districts were selected as representative in terms of their
potential. capacity for enhanced rainfed agriculture, expressed in increases in
yields and the incorporation of new areas.
3.2         The project became effective on July 1, 1981 and was planned to be
completed on June 30, 1986 (5 years); it was extended until June 20, 1987 as a
result of the lack of budget funds, inflation, and the increases resulting
from the peso's decline in relation to the dollar. By the closing date the
dollar had risen by 4,013 percent as compared with the date on which the loan
agreement was signed.
3.3         Total project investment was Hex$12.854 billion (1980 pesos), or
92 percent of the projected Mex$13.937 billion referred to in the Appraisal
Report. At current prices expenditure was Mex$79.195 billion, an increase,
compared with 1980 prices, of Hex$66.341 billion, or 516 percent.
3i4         It should be pointed out that the project illustrates the
financial difficulties experienced during the six years 1982-88, which
prevented the necessary counterpart funds from being assigned to it.
Nonetheless, the planning phases at the district level were not affected,
since the funds, although limited, were channeled through the PLANAT Technical
Coordination Committee set up on August 18, 1983, in accordance with the
programs prepared. This improved coordination at the national and district
level during project execution.
3.5         The project was based on information provided at the district and
national level in response to the manual prepared by the Direccion General de
Politica y Evaluacidn Sectorial. It was also developed from the visits and
surveys made in the states, the work of FICART and FIRA and the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements. Also used were the reports by the various World Bank
missions, documents provided by NAFIN and the Staff Appraisal Report, the
letter as a consequence of the lack of a project feasibility study.   It is
worth mentioning that this information enabled a fairly comprehensive response
be made to requests for information from the World Bank.
4.           tsults Achieved
4.1         The information gathered in the socioeconomic survey does not, as
was hoped, provide a complete picture of the project's effects, but is
sufficient to permit identification of the following results:
4.2         Civil Works:  there was a 93 percent achievement rate in relation
to projected investments in the soil and water conservation and small
irrigation subprograms.



- 17 -
4.3         Infrastructure Construction:  Warehouse construction exceeded the
projections by 127 percent and development and training centers by 125 percenc
and 100 percent respectively.
4.4         Unplanned works were also executed since they met the needs of
producers, such as nurseries, two agricultural product dehydration plants, one
guava processing plant and one grading and packing plant for this same fruit.
together with 16 cassava drying areas.
4.5         TraLning:  1,512 courses were carried out with a total duration of
11,961 hours. The scholarship program benefited 45 master's level and 24
doctorate level students.
4.6         Research:  The INIA carried out 59 of a projected 63 district
level research programs, covering rice, cacao, rubber, fruit farming, forage
crops, maize, beans, vegetables, wheat, sorghum, production systems,
socioeconomic issues, entomology, oilseeds, operations and services support
and weed control.
4.7         rhe INIP carried out 231 district level experiments through six
research programs in five areas, viz: socioeconomic issues, forage
production, animal production, animal health and animal nutrition, together
with study programs ou various livestock species.
4.8         At the national level INIF supported five regional forest research
centers, located in the states of Baja California Sur, Coahuila, Chihuahua,
MichoacAn and Nexico.  At the district level the following took place:  tests
on the origin and propagation of plant species and the management and
application and/or utilization of various forest species, and studies on the
utilization of forest species in construction, tool handles, crafts and pulp
for paper.
4.9         Agricultural Technical Assistance:  The area covered amounted to
about 1.2 m.ha of which 73 percent was given over to the production of basic
grains. In the livestock area the focus was on the adoption of technologies
such as vaccination, parasite elimination, alternative pasture management,
genetic improvements and practices promoting enhanced animal production. In
the forestry subsector activities were centered around reforestation,
establishment of windbreaks, plots of nooal (prickly pear), pest control and
soil conservation; regulations were issued for changes in land use, the
exploitation of ordinary and exotic hardwoods, construction of rural hothouses
and the use of appropriate woods for crafts, packing cases and tool handles;
however, the targets were not achieved.
4.10        Total credit provided through FICART amounted to MexS17.2918
billion, or 94 percent of the authorized total. Of this some 61.3 percent
represented longer-term financing and 37.8 percent working capital. For its
part FIRA provided Mex$17.106 billion, or 100 percent of the authorized
amount, 35.8 percent in longer-term financing and the remaining 64.2 percent
as working capital.



_ 18-
5.          Lessons Learned
5.1         The project did not entlrely achieve its objectives as a result of
inadequate allocations and delays ln budget appropriations in all the
participatlng areas. Interinstitutional coordination was also inadequate in
the early stag.s of the project. Nonetheless, Lt is considered that the
PLANAT program was positive as regards most of its components, in that it
facilitated technology transfer to SARH personnel and to producers, thus
improving production levels in agriculture.
5.2         The infrastructure program exceeded the projected    number of
beneficiaries by 93 percent, which was fundamental to the attainment of its
objectives. LLkewise the success of the FICART and FIRA credit programs was
due to the integrated rural development approach taken in PLANAT.
5.3         It is recommended that the lessons learned in PLANAT be applied to
other projects partially financed by the Bank or executed by SARH; it is
therefore proposed that consideratlon be given to the following:
-     the project cost and execution period should make provision for
contingencies arising during implementation;
-     interinstitutional coordination is essential to the achievement of
project targets;
=    before project operations begin, a manual should be prepared
clearly defining the responsibilities and activities to be carried
out by each of the agencies directly or indirectly involved. This
would among other things prevent constant changes and adjustments
to projects;
-     before the preparation of a PCR there should be a Joint visit to
the project area by personnel from the project executing agency,
the Bank and those who are to make the evaluation. This would
provide an initial overview of the information available and of
the current status of the works executed.



- 19 -
M B x I C O
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
S*MMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA



- 21 -
PART III
TABLE 1
MEXICO
RAINPED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-MR 
RELATED BANK LOANS
LN./CR.                TITLE                             YEARS OF OPERATION
NUMBER
Credit
1462-ME 1/  Integrated Rural Development - PIDER II      06116/77 - 01/31/83
1553-ME II  Tropical Agricultural Development            04/27178 - 06/30/84
1569-ME Tl  VI Agricultural Credit (FIRA)                05/16/78 - 06/30/82
1891-ME Ti  VII Agricultural Credit (FIRA)               07/08180 - 1.2/31/82
2191-ME 'L/  San Fernando Agricultural Development       07/01182 - 06/30/89
Extension
2658-ME 21 Second Tropical Agricultural Development    07/08/86 - 12/31/93
2859-ME 7/ Agricultural Extension (PROCATI)              06/25/87 - 06/30/92
,1 Projects that preceded PLANAT.
2/  Projects that followed PLANAT.                                                      L
NOTE: The project was intended for later expansion. While this did not
materialize, certain PLANAT components related to the projects listed
above. For credit, a general intrest rates agreement (GIRA) was signed in
1984 with GOM to consolidate policy on interst rates on a continuing basis
for all projects, including PLANAT, in the agriculture sector. Concerning
extension, loan 2859-ME (PROCATI) emerged to follow PLANAT. It was based
on a 1984 subsector review of various experiences, including that of
rainfed districts. The new project oeeks to incorporate such PLANAT
lessons as provision of higher extension coverage, improved levels of
expertiso, and orientation to researcht linkages and farmers needs.



- 22 -
PART II I
TABLE 2
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-ME)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
DATE           DATE          DATE
ITEM                   PLANNED        REVISED        ACTUAL
- Identification           23-Apr-79                      23-Apr-79
- Preparationt First       15-Aug-79          ---         15-Aug-79
Second    15-Nov-79          ---         15-Nov-79
- Appraisal Mission        20-Jan-80          ---         14-Jan-80
- Loan Negotiations           Jun-80       13-Oct-80    1-51DecJ80
- Board Approval              Aug-80       17-Nov-80      22-Jan-81
- Signature Date           12-Feb-81          ---         02-Mar-81
- Date of Effectiveness   01-Jun-81           ---         01-Jul-81
- Closing Date             30-Jun-86       30-Jun-87      30-Jun-87
- Completion Date          31-Dec-85       31-Dec-86      31-Dec-86
Source: Divisional Black Books and Project Timetables.
C0-MUTS: (Issues raised at each stage of project cycle)
Identification: Give priority to rainfed districts (DTs), avoid overlap with
PIDER, model extension on India's T&V system, integrate research with extension
and soil/water conservation.
Preparation First: Project to be first stage in a series, focus on 5-8 DTs,
establish coordinating mechanisms, find ways to ensure timely budget
allocations, financing to be for foreign exchange and credit.
Preparation Seconds Soil and water conservation component developed, to focus
on farmer operated conservation techniques and less on reclaiming eroded land;
first priority should be areas with greatest potential.
ADpraisal: Issues Paper focuses on organization and management mechanisms of
coordination, scope and size of project, providing means to ensure timeliness of
annual budget allocations, and whether the Bank should finance credit component.
Loan Nesotiations: Loan size at 352 o2 total project cost (i.e. US$280), loan
grace and amortization, annual review of credit interest rates and reimbursement
for incremental portion to wmounts loaned, feeder ro,.ds construction in
accordance with relevant SAHOP standards.
Board Avproval: Technical coordination committee functional and agreed on first
years work program, SARH has project office and candidate to manage it,
revolving fund established for ensuring timely budget allocations, actions on
extensionist coordination, subject matter specialist assignments, agreement
between SARH and BANRURAL on credit operations.
Date of Effectiveness: Prior to effectiveness, Schedule 1 amended to reflect
Bank financing of 452 of total project cost.
Source: Project files.



MEXICO
LOAN 1945-ME: PLANAT
Pro1ect Schedule
1 234 1234 1 234 1 234 1234 1 234 1234 1 234 1 234
Quarter       I     T                                                    -w I   I  I 
Year       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
IDENTIFICATION
PR,EPARATIONs IST. MISSION 
2ND. MISSION 
APPRAISAL MISSION 
LOAN NEGOTIATIONS _
BOARD APPROVAL
w
SIGNATURE DATE
DATE OF EFFECTIVENESS                             -
COMPLETION DATE                ___._
CLOSING DATE                                     _                                      .____3-
Year      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Quarter   E  I                  E  I  I     TEE lIT luLl TEE
123412341234123412341 2341234 1234 1 234
sb r' -
fn
Scheduled:                                Actual:   ---                                            0
1 i11S , | 1i . n.n S , . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-?



- 24 -
PART II'
TABLE 3
Page 1 of Z
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTMRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(toan 1945-ME)
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS million)
FISCAL YEARS
1981    1982      1983      1984    1985    1986   1987
Appraisal Estimates
Annual                     18      39        44        43      44       43      49
Cuv-lative                 18      57       101       144     188      231    280
Actual Disbursements          0   34.82    60.63   112.22  180.37  197.12          -
Actual as 2 of Estiimate    01   61.11    60.01    81.41   95.92   85.31           -
Date of Final Disbursement: 04-03-86
Amount Cancelled:               US$82.88 million
Repayments                      US$85.42 million
(as of October 30, 1988)



- 25 -                                 PART  ITr
TA2BLE 3
Page 2 of 2
PLANED v. ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(Loan 1945-WE)
5260                                                                           /
5240-
5220 -
5200 -
5140
* 120
$60               ,
540
520
II           32            83           84            as           as            r
Wouid Bank ""dl Yea
3   SAN Planned Dbb.                            +   AgtuLl Web.



- 26 -
PART III
TABLE 4A
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-ME)
PROJECT COSTS
(In US$ million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE        ACTUAL COST  a/_
Investment                Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total
Category                 Costs  Costs  Costs    Costs  Costs  Costs
Civil Works                    79.9   59.1  .39.0       39.2   32.1   71.3
Equip. & Veh.                  12.8   26.0   38.8        4.1    3.4    7.5
Sal. & Oper. Costs            133.1    8.8  141.9       91.2   74.6  165.8
Training & Studies              9.3   15.1   24.4        6.7    5.4   12.1
Credit                        200.0   62.0  262.0    161.9  140.3  302.2
Total Base Line Costs         435.1  171.0  606.1        -.-    -.-    -.-
- Physical Contingencies       26.1   16.0   42.0
- Price Contingencies         104.0   45.0  149.1        -.-    -.-    -.-
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           565.2  232.0  797.2    303.1  255.8  558.9
a/ Actual costs as reported in SARH, "Informe de Terminacion del
Proyecto," September 1988, in constant 1980 MexS, converted at
average 1980 exchange rate, Mex$23-US$1.
NOTEt Figures may not add up due to rounding.



- 27 _
PART III
TABLE 4A
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
420,(Lsn 194-ME)
100 
260 
240
220-
200 -
2     160 
140
120
50
60
40
Ow            E@jvd!N                0*m             TiNNS              CUED



am
PROJECT FINANCING
(In USS thousand)
Planned     I of      First      X of        Second     S of                X of
Source              Lose        Total     Revision   Total       Revision   Total      Final    Total       co msnts
Agreemnt   Finan.    (3/84)      Finan.      (10/84)    Finan.     a/       Finan.
1. Civil Works                68,6ao     7.1        658,680      7.8X      40,700      6.1X   11,002        2.60
2. Equipmnt and Vehicloe    16,66a    2.13          16,600       2.1X      16,600      2.1X    3,668        0.6x
S. Salaries and
Operating Expense          68500      7.3X       68,000       7.3X      68,060      7.38   89,476        7.1X 
4. Training and Studies       10,600     1.3x       10,000       1.31       7,900       1.0%    1,616       0.3X
S. Credit
(a)   mediu  Term          72,600     9.06      6S,000        7.01      68,065      8.65   69,848       12.61
(b) Short Term             866,0      4.5X      68,66         7.0X      "8,G65      8.65   71,533       12.8X
6. Unallocated                29,600     3.63       26,66        na..       6,400      n.o.        -_                hI S/
TOTAL ISRO                   280,000      .1X      280,000      85.15     284,600     38.23  197,119       36.3X d1
BQIIE1U=                     617,666    64.91      617,666      64.91     532,400     66.83  841,781       64.75     9/
TOTAL FDNANCING              797,600   160.0X      797,666     166.06     797,600    166.611 58,900       186.01     1
a/ Bank disbursements as of November 1988.
hi US816.4 million from the Bank loan were cancelled in October 1984.
1/  An additional US387.6 million were cancelled from the fank loan In October 1986.
gJ  From the total Bank financing, US278,824 drawn on the Special Account have not been allocated to any disbursement category yet.
gJ A breakdown of financing from government or other sources Is not available. Doestic contribution was calculated by substracting
World Bank total actual disbursements from actual project expenditures.
f/  Actual expenditures are those reported in SARH's Informo de Terminacion del Proyecto, September 1988.



- 29 -
PART III
TABLE 5A
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-HE)
PROJECT RESULTS: DIRECT BENEFITS
APPRAISAL           GOM
ESTIMATE        ESTIMATE
INDICATORS                       UNIT         12/19/80          911988
CONSTRUCTION
Local Feeder Roads              km               2,016 a/        599
Small Scale Irrigation and
Drainage                      ha              37,000        46,186
Forestry Planting               ha              13,400         4,705
Soil and Water Conservation    ha               65,000 b/    48,722
PLANAT field offices,
housing and labs              mZ              67,790 el        ---
Comunity warehouses,            tons           100,000 A/   227,443
Regional training centers       unit                 3 bl          6
District and unit
development centers           unit                16 d/         20
Animal pathology labs           unit            4 or 5 e/          1   fl
Research centers                unit                 3 g/        ---
FARM CREDIT
No. of beneficiaries            farm family    37,000            ---   hl
Value of subloans               USS m              262           302
- Investment credit             USS m              175 d/    16,726.2 Mex$ m
- Short-term credit             USS m               87 d/    17,669.6 Mex$ m
TRAINING
Degree training (M.S.)          man/year           675            90
Degree training (PhD)           man/year           100            72
Short-term in-service           courses            888 i/      1,512
FARM OUTPUT (incremental)
Basic food crops and
feed grains                   mill. tons    180,000 i/   268,634   k/
Cacao, coffee and coconut       mill. tons      14,000         9,920
Fruits and vegetables           mill. tons    240,000        700,834
Alfalfa                         mill. tons    124,000    Not avail.
Beef and pork                   mill. tons      17,000        45,541
Milk                            mill. liters        62            30.6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Ratio of zone extension staff to
farmers (at appraisal 1/1000)                                1/900   )J



- 30 -
PART III
TABLE 5A
Page 2 of 2
a/ Target represents 70% of 2,880; GOM target was 2,880 as reported in
Staff Supervision Reports of 8/81, 8/83 and 1/85.
b/ GOM target as reported in Staff Supervision Report missions of 8/81,
8183 and 1/85.
£/ Reduced to 49,150 m2 by GOM as reported in Staff Supervision Report
mission of 8/81.
d/ GOM target as reported in Staff Supervision Report missions of 8/83 and
1/85.
e/ No target given in SAR; target varied in Staff Supervision Report of
8183 and 1/85.
fl Three labs were constructed but only one was equipped.
zi Reported in Staff Supervision Report of 1/85.
h/ FICART: 126,699 beneficiaries; for FIRA, data not available. SARH's PCR
compares FICART data to an expected total number of beneficiaries of
275,000 which according to SAR, para. 6.09, represents all farmers in
the project districts. SAR also states that at appraisal 50,000 farmers
were using credit regularly (implying they would continue) and 37,000
new recipients were expected.
L' SAR target was 1,900 man/months; this was later changed to number of
courses as per Staff Supervision Report of 1/85.
1 According to Staff Supervision Report of 8/81, this includes incremental
production by the end of 1986 for the following basic crops and feed
grains: maize, beans, wheat, rice, chickpea, soybeans, and sorghum.
k/ According to SARH, Informe de Terminaci6n de Proyecto, Septiembre 1988,
this includes incremental production by the end of 1986 for the
following basic crops and feed grains: rice, beans, wheat, maize,
maize/beans, sorghum, and chickpeag soybeans not available.
l/ Source: Staff Supervision Report, Annex 3 - Key Indicators. January
1985.



- 31 -
PART III
TABLE 5B
MEXICO
RAINFED ACRICULTURAL DEVEL'OPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-HE)
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN
Appraisal Estimate            Actual
Economic Rate of Return                     21%                      a/
Financial Rate of Return                  25Z-38Z b_               6.44Z ct
a/ The EUR was not calculated in SARH's PCR. In addition, it is no longer
Bank practice to calculate ERR for projects with large credit and
extension components.
b/ Represents the range of expected financial rates of return for the
different investment plans evaluated in the SAR.
c/ Financial rate of return of the whole project as reported by SARH in
its "Informe de Terminacion del Proyecto." The report does not offer a
financial rate of return by investment plan or the assumptions upon
which the 6.442 is based. However, when adjustments are made to
exclude short-term credit from the net cash flows and to include
incremental operating costs at a constant rate from 1987 to 2011, a
rate of return of 8.692 results.
I



- 32 -
PART III
TABLE 6
MEXICO
_4INFER AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-14E)
STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
DEADLINE FOR
COVENANT            SUBJECT               COMPLIANCE         STATUS
LOAN AGREEMENT
- Section 4.03      Audit of Special        Annually         All reports
Account                                 received
- Schedule 1,       General Interest                         Complied with
para. 4           Rate Agreement                           after protracted
(GIRA) - 1984                           negotiations
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
- Section 4.04      Audit of Project        Annually         Delayed, but
Accounts (FIRA,                         all reports
FICART)                                 received
- Section 4.05      Verification of         Annually         Delayed, but
Project Accounts                        all reports
received
- Schedule 2        Procurement                n/a          Complied with
PROJECT AGREEMENTS
- Section I         General Interest                         Complied with
Rate Agreement                          after protracted
(GIRA) - 1984                           negotiations
- Schedule 1, 11.8  Revision of             Annually         Complied with
and I1.11         interest rates                           after protracted
for subloans to                         negotiations
reflect changes
in average
prevailing
interest rates



- 33 -
PART III
TABLE 7A
Page 1 of 2
=CO
RArNFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1945-HE)
USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF                     PLANNED        REVISED       FINAL
PROJECT CYCLE                HQ   FIELD    H Q   FIELD    TOTAL
Through Appraisal                n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.    169.6
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Through Effectiveness            n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.      37.3
Supervision                      n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.      86.7
TOTAL                                                      293.6
n.a. = not available
Sour__.s Baik MIS.



- 34 -
PART III
TABLE 7A
Page 2 of 2
TOTAL STAFF WEEKS
(Loan 1945-ME)
70 -
60 
50
40
30 
20-
10 
0'
79       8          at        8         E4 8 2                        a7
WORLD  MNK FISCL YEARS
9    PREPAATION                   *   APPPAISAL                 o   SUPERES1ION



9 EX I C a
am Me. 1946-
FROJECT C"EtRPR
USE DFSTAFF RESOURE  MSE
No. of  Man/days  Specializations  Porformonce  Type of
MISSIONDAT        RtA      esns  in tteld  roormnted                  *-laProblem
( o/yr) 
Id nt;f tcntion   8/78        1       6                                nl.    n/.
Preprartion        4/79        6     110              *,b               n/.    n/.
Appraisal          2/80        6     so             *,b,d              n/.    n/.
Ppst-nppDrisal    6/80         a      is              *,d               a/       /
Supervision  I    B/81         a      8S (3xl1)      *,b,d             2       1,
Supervision  2    12/81       4      42 (4x14)    2n,b,d               2       11, T JL/ *Partial in conjunction with FIRAi projoct.
Supervision  a    8/82         1      12              *1                -        --~ 1/ *Partinl In conjunction with FIRA projoct.
Supervision  4    9/82        2      21             a a *              2       M1 T
Supervision  E     1/89       2      22             a a c              2 -M!          T W
Supervision  a      /8      o 2      2o             a A  b             2 rM T
Supervision  7     1/84       1      14               *2                       11, T    *| Partial, only roads
Suprdtision 8    6/84          1     20               a                2        ---
Supervea ion  9     1/86      2       17             2a                2       11, Fn/
Supprvisaon 10    11/86       2       168           ad                 2         1n
Supervision 11    6/86 1                i            a*                a         F 
Supervision 12    1/82         1     2               a                 a        MA
Supervision Is    10/88      _2       22             2                 1        __h
as    426
D1HE PROJECT DATA
Borromrs NAFINS
Executing Ag ncy: SIUII
fiserl Y     7Tr: Janurry I - D  c1/                                                       rnr  ro
up ov iurroncy (6/4rov 1t2on)  Mexican Pe os (V0x$)
Curr ncy Exchange Rate:
Sppreisal o   r Aorg8:    (2ay 1972)                                          U§SI00 =  23
Intervenisn 10 r 1/r8go:   (1982-106)                                        USSa 00 = l
Los Y"r Averag:        (9/8B) project terminated blance of 86B * cancelled  US81 06 = 676
ue ariculturalst; b = 5  cono ist; c = Irrigation enginer; d a financial analyst; * = Dep Div  Chief;
=roads specialist;                                                                                                                 , 'o
I = probl_mfroa or minor problem; 2 = moeratee problm;  ; = Jor problems; 4 = Jor problo, objective will not be ot                    toBi
F = Financial; 11 IbMnagerial; T = T chnical; P u Polit;call and 0 c Other overallr 
S/ Partial in conjunction  1ith other  ssions                            
2/ Pers        vison of only roads co ponent
I/ Special focus on drainage
as  425-                                                                               1
B/Reorro  notr:  N FileA
Executing Agency: SASH~~~~~~~~~r-



MAP SECTION
I]



L[lbAN G(_)g 16igzA.ll.FCAS  ASAN 1LUIStzI..l.i   Il.>LIMS'_-9h9-                                                                                c    1
0; <, 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~RAINFED  AGRICULTURAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
A I
ISOUVETS IN  MIL.LMEIERJ                  2            -
ZAPOAN'                           GO   -/
x I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f    , .   $                                                              x98  S    W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    r   HONDuRAS~~~CTo  /CS 
-- .,4 w .} CC
N                                                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAEAA  '2 
VILLAH7
104- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~HNUA



