Document of           FILE COPy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2941-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 30, 1980
This document has 2 resticted disribution and may be ued by reipients only in the performance of
their oflcal duties. Its contents mny not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it has
fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar since mid-1977. On December 16,
1980, the peso traded at 23.19 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
2
1 hectare (ha)                   5  10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2          = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )         =  0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.2 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg   1 metric ton          =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BANRURAL :   National Rural Credit Bank
CONASUPO :   National Marketing Corporation for Basic Foods
COPLAMAR :   Commission for Marginal Areas
DGCSA         General Directorate for Soil and Water Conservation
DGDUT    :   General Directorate of Rainfed Districts and Units
DGPEA         General Directorate for Production and Agricultural Extension
DT       :   Rainfed District
FERTIMEX      Mexican Fertilizer Corporation
FICAR         Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated Areas
FICART        Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
FIRA     :   Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
INIA          National Agricultural Research Institute
INIF     :   National Forestry Research Institute
INIP          National Livestock Research Institute
OHDR          General Directorate for Hydraulic Works for Rural Development
PEMEX    :   Mexican Petroleum Company
PIDER    :   Integrated Program for Rural Development
PLANAT        National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Agriculture
PRONASE       National Seed Production Company
SAHOP         Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH     :   Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SMS      :    Subject Matter Specialist
T and V       Training and Visit Extension System
TCC           Technical Coordinating Committee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Beneficiaries: Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH) for the
majority of project programming and execution; the Secretariat
of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) for some feeder
roads; the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA)
and the Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas
(FICART) for farm credit.
Amount:        US$280 million equivalent
Terms:         Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 9.25 percent per annum.
Relending
Terms:         Approximately US$108 million of the proposed loan would be loaned
through FIRA and FICART to beneficiary farmers for farm invest-
ments and working capital at interest rates ranging from 14 percent
to 21 percent (para. 75).
Project
Description:   The project would increase agricultural production in rainfed
areas through execution of a program (a) to improve institutions
for agricultural research, extension and training at the national
and district level, and (b) to increase farm productivity in
nine rainfed districts representative of different ecological
zones in the country. The key element of the program is the
establishment of an effective field-level extension system
following the model of the training and visit (T and V ) system
backstopped by coordinated field research. The project would
establish the basis for subsequent intensive development in
other rainfed districts.
(i) At the national level, the project would include:
(a) a research program to support activities undertaken
at the district levels and to establish improved
technologies for subsequent application in other
rainfed districts;
(b) training of research, extension, and soil and water
conservation service technical staff; and
(c) about 40 man-years of consulting services in extension,
research, soil conservation, monitoring and evaluation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(ii) In the nine districts, the project would include the
following:
(a) a farm extension program following the general
model of the T and V system;
(b) production system research and on-farm testing of new
technology in support of the extension program;
(c) a soil and water conservation program, including
terraces, contour furrows and small water storage
reservoirs, covering approximately 65,000 ha and
benefitting about 7,000 farmers;
(d) a forestry program covering approximately 10,500 ha
of pine plantations, 900 ha of on-farm woodlots, and
2,000 ha of windbreak trees. This program would
involve about 1,000 farm families;
(e) provision of short- and medium-term farm credit to
37,000 farmers to enable them to adopt the technical
packages promoted by the extension service; and
(f) a rural works program, including the construction or
improvement of some 2,880 km of farm to market roads
servicing some 80,000 farm families, small irrigation
schemes serving 7,000 ha, and drainage works covering
some 30,000 ha and benefitting about 2,000 farm
families.
About 92,000 families would receive significant benefits from
the project; an additional 70,000 families would benefit to a
lesser extent by adopting some features of the new farming
technologies promoted by the extension service.
The project has institutional and climatic risks. The develop-
ment of the strong district management structure proposed under
the project is essential to ensure effective coordination
between the line agencies involved. The major climatic risk of
drought would be reduced by adoption of improved farm technolo-
gies. Overall, considering the capacity of Mexican technicians
and the proposed organizational efforts under the project, the
risks are acceptable and normal for this type of program.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                      -------US$ million----
Local  Foreign   Total
I.  NATIONAL-LEVEL SUPPORT                      92        38       130
Planning and Administration                  3         2         5
Extension Program                            7         9        16
Research Program                            77        22        99
Soil and Water Conservation                  5         5        10
II.  PROGRAMS IN 9 DISTRICTS                    343       133       476
Planning and Administration                 20        12        32
Extension                                   25         4        29
Research                                    34         4        38
Soil and Water Conservation                 19        13        32
Roads                                       27        20        47
Irrigation and Drains                       18        18        36
MIedium-term Credit                        126        49       175
Short-term Credit                           74        13        87
III.  TOTAL BASE COST                            435       171       606
IV.  CONTINGENCIES                              130        61       191
Physical                                    26        16        42
Price                                      104        45       149
V.   TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                      565       232       797
Financial Plan:                                      US$ millions         %
Government                            317            40
Bank                                  280            35
FICART and FIRA                       180            20
Beneficiaries                          20             5
TOTAL                                 797           100
Estimated                             --------------- US$ millions -----------------
Disbursements:      Bank FY           1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual            18      39      44      43      44     43      49
Cumulative        18      57     101    144    188    231    280
Economic
Rate of Return:    21 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 3091-MLE, dated December 19, 1980.
1/   Project cost includes taxes and duties, which are insignificant as most
of the equipment and farm inputs are exempt.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPlENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$280 million to help finance a Rainfed Agricultural
Development Project. The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3
years of grace with interest at 9.25 percent per annum. US$108 million of
the proposed loan would be relent to farmers for investment and working
capital. Loans would bear interest rates of between 14 percent per annum
and 21 percent per annum depending on farmer's income and purpose of the
loan (para. 75).
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), dated May 30, 1979. The most recent economic
mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and is now completing its report.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. 1/
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. The land reform was largely implemented in the
late thirties and while further land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as the parcels of land allocated were small, the soil often quite arid
and benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance scant.
Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year
by the mid-1970s, also made social equity difficult to achieve. Even MIexico's
sustained economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing
1/   Very recent preliminary estimates for the 1980 balance of payments
deficit as well as revised oil export targets for 1981 and 1982 are
reflected in the Text but not in Annex I at this stage (see footnotes
to pages 4 and 5 of Annex I).



- 2 -
labor force in productive employment, and by the 1970s some 50 percent of the
labor force was either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly
unemployed.
5.        Policies to remedy this situation, undertaken in the first half of
the seventies, were somewhat self-defeating. As a result, by the mid-1970s
Mexico experienced increasing public sector deficits, inflation, large balance
of payments deficits, capital flight and a marked slowdown in the real rate of
growth of GDP, which dropped to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate and let the peso float. Following the devaluation by
80 percent, and a related plan of economic stabilization, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Administration which took over in December 1976 inherited
a difficult situation. High inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing
foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a
need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also called for more
expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment
was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 29 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to US$1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both decisive reduction in protectionism and the growing demand for capital
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depended.
The current account deficit increased to US$2.6 billion (or 2.8 percent of
GDP) in 1978 and further to an estimated US$4.6 billion (about 4.0 percent



- 3 -
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mfobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth was about
7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in 1977.
9.        The growth pace for 1980 has continued to be strong and is now
estimated at 7.5 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments is expected to be much higher than anticipated, and due to continued
expansion of imports (mostly capital and intermediate goods and foodstuff)
is estimated to have reached US$6.0 billion (about 4 percent of GDP). Despite
the substantial inflow of imported goods, including consumer goods, strict
domestic credit restrictions, generally adequate lending rates, modest increases
on real wages, coupled with substantial productivity increases, inflation has
also been higher than anticipated, essentially as a result of expansionary
policies with investments increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year
in real terms. A shortage of essential consumer goods and construction
materials, aggravated by the inadequacy of the transport system to handle
distribution of domestically produced goods along with increasing imports, has
further contributed to the price increases. The increase in the consumer
price index in 1980 is estimated to have been around 28 percent.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in controlling
inflation may come from the wage area. The agreed increase in the minimum
wage for 1980 was about 21 percent and came after three consecutive years of
decline in real wages. The fact that in the course of 1980 inflation has
increased more rapidly than the expected 20 percent, has caused serious
concern among the trade unions. Bargaining of new wage contracts has been
based on substantially higher percentage increases than the one implied in the
minimum wage adjustment and the increase in the minimum wage for 1981 will
likely assume as a basis an inflation rate for the year of at least 25 percent.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits during 1981. The need to expand public
investment in the key infrastructure sectors and to maintain the present level
of programs in the energy sector, leaves relatively little scope for signifi-
cant adjustments in the size or structure of public expenditure. At the same
time, the intention of the Government to implement much needed increases in
prices of public goods like gasoline will imply a temporary push upwards to
the price index.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mlexico has the organizational and natural resources necessary to
attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 60 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The recently stated
goal of the Government is to reach a production level of about 3.0 million bbl/
day in 1981, and to more or less maintain it at a level that will accommodate



exports of 1.5 million bbl/day (compared to the 1.1 million bbl/day target
up to September, 1980). The Mexican Government continues to indicate its
unwillingness to exceed this limit for fear of increasingly becoming a classi-
cal "oil producing country" with the economic and social tensions that would
ensue. But even at this production level, the challenge for Mexico is how to
mobilize its resources--its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--
to help resolve its long term development problems. The most serious of these
relate to poverty, unemployment, inadequate growth of agricultural production
in non-irrigated lands, and urban-regional imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.8 million households (25 percent of the total), had
incomes of less than one-third the national average, of which at least 2.4
million (22 percent of the total) lived in absolute poverty. The root causes
of this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of non-irrigated agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally
employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly
in industry).
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias and additional efforts
to stimulate employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth
of output should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress,
however, the still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of
the labor force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage
of young people in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute
poverty a difficult goal to attain in the near future. The Government has
under its consideration several types of subsidies for the poor. These could
prove to be short-term palliatives which would preempt resources which would
otherwise be available for investment in employment-creating activities or for
improving educational or health standards of the poor on a more permanent
basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 6-7
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however the present
levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
16.       A National Employment Plan was published in early 1979.  It calls
for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector in both
urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those employed outside
the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a major effort will be
required in the area of vocational training. Technical assistance programs
are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured forms of activities,



- 5 -
especially in the services sector. While there is no doubt that the authorities
are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment, and while the institu-
tional structure to carry out some important programs already exists, a concen-
trated effort will be required to take effective action and to make better use
of human resources by substantially reducing the level of hidden and open
unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s, and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive new large-
scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity (and income
per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present administration
has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with agriculture in
order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy emphasizes
increased production through a widespread program of development of foodstuff
production. Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance,
demonstration, and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural
potential. Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation serving nearly one
million ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but with a smaller
proportion of budget resources than in the past. The banking system is being
encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production and processing
programs. These initiatives should lead to an acceleration of production
growth, more equal development opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an
improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world moving rapidly to
become the first) and other areas in the dry, densely populated central
plateau, and (b) retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in pro-
viding either better jobs or adequate public services for the one-third of
all Mexicans who live in towns of less than 2,500 inhabitants. The present
Government has taken many positive steps to confront these problems, including
an administrative re-organization, elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and
introduction of a strong package of incentives to promote growth in a few
well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry has moved to the leading position and is expected to play a major role
in expanding domestic production and exports. A National Industrial Development
Plan was published last year and it reflects the preoccupation of the present
administration with the long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their
implications for employment. Industry has the potential for considerable
expansion in many areas, including efficient import substitution in chemicals,
petrochemicals and capital goods as well as exports of a variety of manufactured
products. While most of the above industries are known for their capital
intensity, they are expected to promote secondary industries with considerable
employment opportunities. These will be enterprises producing secondary
petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal parts and components for capital
goods. Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.



- 6 -
20.       The main problems for the M4exican economy in the years to come remain
the reconciliation of a high growth rate with a relative price stability and a
larger participation of the low income groups in the expanding wealth of the
nation. The National Development Plan, published last April, marks the final
step in the planning activities carried out by the present administration and
places in a consistent framework the specific targets indicated in a number of
sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years. In addition to presenting
a macroeconomic picture of the development prospects, the National Development
Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required to achieve the various
economic and social targets. These policies are essentially sound but call for
a major implementation effort on the part of the Administration. Growth
with low inflation would pose difficult challenges of adjusting prices of
public goods and services without undermining the existing consensus of the
country, and improving income distribution would call for policies that
encourage labor intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without
slowing down modernization of the economy.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1979. This
high ratio reflects the still relatively low level of exports relative to GNP
and the high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio
of external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 30 percent in the
early 1980s, not only as a result of rapid increases in petroleum exports but
also because some of the debt contracted on the least favorable terms has
been prepaid. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.9 percent of
public debt service in 1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same
during the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 6.1 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
22.       As of October 31, 1980, Mexico had received 66 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$4,243.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 38 loans totalling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
presently holds US$3,582.5 million of which US$1,554.7 million have not yet
been disbursed. Some 43 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development (24 loans for US$1,864.4 million), 17 percent for power (12
loans for US$704.8 million), 16 percent for transportation (13 loans for
US$666.7 million), and 18 percent for industry (10 loans for US$747.5 million);
the remaining 6 percent has been for water supply (US$130 million), tourism
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Fourth Railway Project, Report No. P-2918-ME of November 26, 1980.



(US$114 million), and urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of October 31, 1980 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget financing has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. The Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention in
Mexico has been focused on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on
most of the Bank-assisted projects and plans have been formulated to strengthen
execution of those projects where improvement is still needed. The effective-
ness of these actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91
million was disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 disbursements totalled US$233 million
and in FY80 disbursements further increased to US$404 million, or 38 percent
of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year.
IFC Operations
24.       As or October 31, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
22 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$535.2 million, of which US$393.8
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
25.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help clear bottlenecks
preventing more rapid growth. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects
of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor, projects that
promote higher levels of employment and production and those that help to
decentralize economic activity. Also, through the recently approved railway
project and a possible project to train technical personnel for industry, the
Bank would assist to alleviate some of the key constraints to the growth
process in the country.
26.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small
farmers through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural
development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under cultivation;



- 8 -
third, to complement infrastructure investments with general support services
including agricultural extension and marketing programs and provision of
medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities in rural
areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has made
thirteen loans in FY74-80 totalling US$1,497 million for irrigation, rural
development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock credit programs.
Several projects for water control, irrigation, integrated rural development
and support services are in preparation; a third PIDER integrated rural
development project is expected to be ready for presentation to the Executive
Directors in the coming months.
27.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas, and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city
in which it is located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer
sector has been strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned
fertilizer company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote
the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support
an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors
in FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid
expansion. A second small and medium scale industries project was approved by
the Executive Directors in June 1980. The Executive Directors also approved
in May 1980 a project for the mining sector, which up to now has received
insufficient resources from the financial system. Two capital goods industry
projects are under discussion for possible Bank support; their aim would be to
assist the transfer of high technology to Mexico so that employment might be
increased in the engineering subsector, strengthening the base for manufac-
turing industry.
28.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and Medium Cities (FY76) Water Supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A Highway Sector Project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A loan for a Medium-Size Cities Water Supply Project was
approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980.
29.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
enacted a law of human settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National



- 9 -
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet
the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key
regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West
Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project
for oil producing southeastern Mexico is being negotiated.
30.       The Government has under its consideration a program to construct
three industrial ports with a view to promoting economic development away from
the central highlands and along the Pacific Coast (at Lazaro Cardenas) and the
Gulf of Mexico (at Altamira and Ostiones). The Bank is examining the possi-
bilities of providing technical assistance through a project preparation
loan and would be assisting in preparation of an urban development project at
Altamira. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting) in training
Government staff in several aspects of project preparation, monitoring and
evaluation. A course on urban and regional development has recently been
concluded and several for agriculture, rural development, agro-industries and
project evaluation are programmed for the near-term.
31.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the
Bank have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and
the Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure, the Integrated Program for Rural Development
(PIDER), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale indus-
tries, and hotel development. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural develop-
ment project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised and is being super-
vised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - RAINFED AGRICULTURE IN MEXICO
Background
32.       Mexico has a land area of 197 million ha, of which only about 30 mil-
lion are considered potentially cultivable. Another 78 million ha are classi-
fied as range land and 44 million ha are considered suitable for forestry.
Of the potential arable land, only 15 million ha are presently cropped,
including about 5 million ha under irrigation.



- 10 -
33.        Despite increasing urbanization, agriculture employs about 39 percent
of Mexico's labor force, providing a livelihood for some 4 million families,
of which 1.3 million are landless. The majority of this labor force is
engaged in activities with very low productivity, and about two-thirds have
earnings below the minimum wage.
34.        The agricultural sector accounts for about 9 percent of Mexico's
gross domestic product and 15 percent of the country's exports. Despite the
growing grain and milk imports of recent years, the external trade balance
in agricultural products has remained positive. In 1979, agricultural exports
amounted to US$2.3 billion, or about 24 percent of total merchandise exports,
while agricultural imports totalled US$0.8 billion, about 6 percent of merchan-
dise imports.
35.        Historically, the major increase in agricultural output in Mexico
has taken place in irrigated lands. Between 1945 and 1955 the area harvested
under irrigation went up from 1.6 million ha to 3.5 million ha and the pro-
duction increased at an annual rate of 6 percent. The rate of expansion
of irrigation facilities slowed down after 1955, and the output growth
declined to 4.4 percent per annum in the period through 1965 and to 2 percent
per annum since. Over the past three decades, nearly 90 percent of public
expenditures in the agricultural sector have taken place in the irrigated
areas.
36.        Rainfed agriculture, while accounting for about two-thirds of the
cropped area and providing livelihood to 87 percent of all farmers, contributes
less than 50 percent of the value of agricultural output. Low productivity in
the non-irrigated croplands has contributed to glaring rural poverty, massive
rural underemployment and heavy migration to urban areas. The reasons for
this low productivity in rainfed zones are clear. Most farmers use traditional
methods of cultivation; few regularly use fertilizers and improved seeds, and
intensive farm practices are by and large nonexistent. Services to modernize
the rainfed sector have been lacking. The agricultural extension staff is
weak and thinly spread. Few farmers receive direct technical assistance, and
the quality of extension service is poor. Extension is not properly supported
with applied research. Contact between the extension service and research
agencies has been inadequate, and while research on rainfed crops has expanded
during the past four years, there is still only limited field testing to
assure the appropriateness of recommendations for specific ecological zones.
Technical programs are generally not linked with adequate credit to enable
farmers to purchase the required inputs. In the rainfed areas only 8 percent
of the farmers presently use institutional credit; since they have little
marketable surplus, they are poor credit risks and in the absence of credit
and improved technology they remain subsistence farmers. Rural infrastructure,
particularly roads, is inadequate making market access difficult and costly.
With a combination of these factors, many farmers have neither the incentive
nor the capability to increase their productivity.



- 11 -
37.        The low productivity of rainfed zones is in sharp contrast with
the potential of these areas. About 7 million ha (two-thirds of the rainfed
lands cultivated) have good soils and adequate and reliable rainfall 1/ to
support intensive cropping using known technologies. Most of this land is now
planted in maize with an average yield of only 1.4 tons per ha; with adoption
of modern farming methods, it is possible to increase production two- or
three-fold without any real risk of depleting the land resources. Similar
potential exists for increasing production of other crops. A significant
potential also exists for expanding the area under rainfed agriculture. The
Government has estimated that with suitable incentives, the area devoted to
intensive rainfed cropping could be doubled to about 20 million ha. The
challenge is to develop a strategy and programs to exploit the agricultural
potential of these areas more fully; the project under consideration is
an important step in that direction.
Government Policies and Programs
38.       The present Administration has expressed a strong commitment to
expand agricultural production and increase rural employment; this commitment
is reflected in the balanced strategy that the Government is now pursuing
(para. 17). This strategy has three important elements:
(i) Rainfed Agriculture. Cropped area would be increased and a major
effort launched to increase significantly the productivity of
rainfed lands through application of improved technology supported
by applied research, extension services, credit and remunerative
producer prices for basic grains.
(ii) Irrigation. The irrigated area would be doubled to 10 million ha
by the year 2000. Efficiency of water use and intensity of cropping
would be improved in areas now under irrigation.
(iii) Basic Needs. Three major programs are being implemented to secure
the basic needs -- nutrition, health, education -- of the rural
population. The program of the Commission for Marginal Areas
(COPLAMAR) is being expanded to provide infrastructure support and
public services (such as health, water, schools, and food distribu-
tion) to the rural communities in marginally productive areas.
Through the national Integrated Program for Rural Development
(PIDER), the Government complements production-oriented agricultural
and agro-industrial development programs with a basic needs-oriented
package of services; this program is directed at villages with
population between 300 and 3,000 and grouped in micro-regions with
identified production potential. Most recently, in 1980, the
Government announced a Food Development Plan (SAM) which, among
other objectives, would promote production of basic food crops and
provide priority attention to the serious nutritional deficiencies
in target zones of the country.
1/   Over 700 mm annually with 80 percent reliability.



- 12 -
Development of Rainfed Agriculture
39.       The Administration has taken several steps to develop rainfed
agriculture. In 1976, the Secretariat of Water Resources was merged with the
Secretariat of Agriculture, forming a new Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources (SARH), and consolidating responsibility for the agricultural sector
under one cabinet agency. Within SARH, the General Directorate of Rainfed
Districts and Units (DGDUT) was created to promote rainfed agricultural
development. DGDUT has established 124 rainfed agricultural districts
(DT's) covering 70 percent of the area of the country and has instituted the
National Program for Assistance to Rainfed Areas (PLANAT). The proposed
project would support PLANAT activities and is designed to strengthen the
national institutional base for promotion of modern rainfed agriculture and to
utilize effectively existing institutional and technical capabilities beginning
with intensive development in 9 rainfed agricultural districts. The project
would be the basis for further expansion of the program. The project is simple
in its concept; it aims at delivering tested technological packages to the
farmers and helping them adopt low-cost investments with substantial impact on
agricultural productivity. Because of the traditional inertia and weak-
ness of rural development administration in the rainfed croplands, a major
effort would be needed to improve the capabilities and organization of the
agencies providing services to the rainfed areas.
The Rainfed Districts Program
40.       General.  The Government's program to promote modern intensive
farming in rainfed zones centers on the 124 newly created Rainfed Districts.
The rainfed district program will strengthen and coordinate the activities
of the approximately 20 line agencies with responsibility for various aspects
of agricultural development in the rainfed zones; it aims at ensuring con-
sistency of technical approach, eliminating gaps or overlaps in responsi-
bilities or physical coverage. It would provide for farmers' participation in
planning and execution of development activities in the district.
41.       The District.  Districts are chosen so as to be as uniform in agri-
cultural and climatological conditions as possible and to have a total farm
population of around 250,000 each. The district is divided into 8-10 units of
6,000 to 10,000 ha based on municipal boundaries, and each unit is further
divided into two to four zones. The DT, with its well-defined geographical
focus and consistency of ecology is the basic local structure for planning and
executing the Government's rainfed agricultural development program.
42.       Each DT is headed by a District Chief who is the Executive Officer
of the District Executive Committee. The Executive Committee consists of
representatives of farmers and all government agencies participating in
agricultural development in the district. A Chief of Operations and several
Program Officers report to the District Chief (Annex IV) . The Chief of
Operations is responsible for extension, farm demonstration, soil and water
conservation, and other operational programs within the district. Operational
staff report through unit and zone chiefs to the chief of operations. Program
Officers provide technical direction and support to operational staff. Depend-
ing on the agricultural pattern, program offices for agriculture, forestry,



- 13 -
livestock, and water resources could be located in a district. Program
officers are responsible for subject matter specialists (SMS) who work closely
with zone and unit staff and field-level agricultural research teams. SARH is
increasing the number of SMS in each district.
43.       At the national level, the General Directorate of Rainfed Districts
and Units (DGDUT) in the Subsecretariat of Agriculture and Operations of
SARH would be responsible for DT program planning, budgeting, and coordina-
tion. A Technical Coordination Committee (TCC), chaired by the General
Director of DGDUT, has been formed in SARH and includes representatives of all
of the SARH line agencies involved in rainfed agricultural development. 1/ The
TCC has central level responsibility for establishing program priorities.
Rainfed Agricultural Development Services
44.       Extension.  SARR's General Directorate of Agricultural Production
and Extension (DGPEA) is responsible for farm extension. DGPEA has about
8,700 technians of which around 2,500 have at least a bachelor's degree.
Coverage of the extension service varies considerably, but is generally weaker
in rainfed zones than elsewhere for four reasons:
-    insufficient training and dearth of subject matter specialists
to back up extension agents;
-    staff too thinly spread, without adequate transportation, and
therefore infrequent contact with farmers;
-    weak link between research and extension; and
-    inadequate budget support, received too late in the fields
for effective use within the crop season.
The project attempts to help overcome these deficiencies. The ratio of
extension staff (adequately trained) to farm families in the PLANAT districts
would double -- from 1:1,000 to 1:500. Extension work would follow the model
of the training and visit system in the project districts so as to: provide
frequent and regular contact between farmers and extension agents; have
extension workers concentrate on farmers who have accepted a development plan;
and attempt to reach a wider number of farmers through demonstrations. The
cooperation between extension agents and field research workers would be
strengthened.
1/   In addition to DGDUT, they are:  the General Directorates of Production
and Extension (DGPEA), Soil and Water Conservation (DCGSA), and Hydraulic
Works for Rural Development (OHDR); and the National Institutes for
Agricultural Investigation (INIA), Livestock Investigation (INIP), and
Forestry Investigation (INIF).



- 14 -
45.       Research.  Crop, livestock, and forestry research are conducted by
SARH's National Institutes for Agricultural, Livestock and Forestry Research
(INIA, INIP, and INIF, respectively). The three institutes have a total
of 85 experiment stations and a professional staff of around 1,300. INIA
is the largest of the three and conducts multidisciplinary production system
research with a significant degree of field testing in farmers' fields.
Similar approaches are now being followed by INIP and INIF. However, each
institution needs further strengthening such as: (a) expansion and upgrading
of technical staff; (b) increased decentralization and expansion of experiment
station networks; (c) expanded on-farm verification and demonstration programs;
and (d) increased coordination with extension agents and subject matter
specialists.
46.       Soil and Water Conservation.  Soil and Water Conservation efforts
have generally been limited to control in areas of severe erosion. Little
attention has been devoted to the agricultural impact of such programs. To be
effective, the conservation program must be redirected to emphasize programs
on cropped lands threatened with damage from erosion. The program would be
integrated with the forestry and farm extension programs to ensure effective-
ness. Construction of small storage reservoirs for supplemental irrigation
and livestock watering would be increased to support the extension services'
efforts in increasing farm productivity.
47.       Forestry.  Forestry management is inadequate to exploit Mexico's
forest resources vested in the rural communities. Exploitation is haphazard
and usually not coordinated with reforestation programs. Efforts to improve
this are underway, and SARH is broadening forestry programs for erosion
control in areas rapidly becoming denuded and for firewood production.
48.       Small Irrigation and Drainage.  Mexico has a well developed service
for the construction and operation of small irrigation and drainage works.
Supplemental irrigation works reduce the risks associated with rainfed cropping
and, in some cases, enable a second, dry season crop to be grown. Drainage
works, necessary in the humid tropic lowlands, would reduce losses due to
flooding and would enable additional land to be opened to cultivation.
49.       Feeder Roads.  Improvement and expansion of the rural road network
is necessary for reliable contact with markets. Mexico's Secretariat of
Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) is experienced in the design,
construction, and maintenance of rural roads. SAHOP working closely with
SARH would extend road access to areas with productive potential.
50.       Credit.  Total institutional credit for agriculture in Mexico has
increased dramatically in recent years. At the end of 1970, Mexican banks had
US$1.4 billion outstanding in agricultural loans; this increased to US$3.7
billion by the end of 1978 and is expected to reach US$6.3 billion by the end
of 1980. In spite of this impressive growth, fewer than one-third of Mexico's
farmers have access to institutional credit and in rainfed areas only 8 percent
of the farmers use institutional credit.



- 15 -
51.       Credit is an important element for the successful development of
intensive rainfed agriculture. Medium-term credit is needed to finance estab-
lishment of perennial crops, to purchase breeding cattle, and to acquire
implements. Short-term credit is needed for purchase of fertilizer, chemicals,
and improved seeds, and for hiring of labor. Under the PLANAT program, credit
would be integrated with the agricultural development services, and availability
of farm credit and its effective use would be ensured.
52.       The extension service promotes adoption of improved agricultural
practices and new farm technologies. Technicians of financial institutions
would be working closely with the extension staff to ensure adequate credit
support for application of the new technologies. Under PLANAT, representatives
of agricultural credit agencies would be members of each District Executive
Committee. The bank credit technicians would visit each Unit headquarter on
a fixed schedule and work with extension technicians in preparing production
programs to be supported with credit.
53.       Farm loans would be made by commercial banks and the public National
Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL). Commercial banks have a limited presence in
rainfed areas and are expected to provide only about 10 percent of the farm
credit under PLANAT. However, successful implementation of PLANAT's program
could encourage a larger presence of commercial banking activities in the
DTs. BANRURAL, the largest bank in Mexico, has a network of over 400 branches
and is in a position to provide improved coverage in the rainfed areas. Total
BANRURAL lending during 1979 was about US$1,673 million (US$1,217 million as
short-term credit, US$391 million as medium- and long-term credit, and US$65
million for commercialization); the majority of BANRURAL's clients are low-
income small farmers and ejidatarios. 1/ In addition to farm lending, the
Government uses BANRURAL to channel grants made for social purposes. BANRURAL's
lending operations are financed from three main sources: (a) short-term
credits from a large number of foreign commercial banks; (b) Government budget-
ary allocation; and (c) rediscounts with various trust funds.
54.       The Government would finance farm lending under PLANAT through two
trust funds. One is the Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA),
for which seven loans have been made over the last 15 years. 2/ Commercial
bank loans would be eligible for rediscount by FIRA. The other is a trust
fund under BANRURAL. Its loans would be rediscounted through FICAR, a trust
fund established some ten years ago to operate primarily in irrigated areas.
Following the Government's policy not to create new trust funds, FICAR is
being renamed FICART (Trust Fund for Credit to Irrigated and Rainfed Areas) to
reflect the fund's new functions to service credit in both irrigated and
rainfed areas. FICAR has been the beneficiary of two loans from the IDB and
has established a record of sound banking operations. The headquarters staff
of FICAR was recently strengthened and a new director, with experience in
FIRA, BANRURAL and DGDUT, appointed in anticipation of the formation of
FICART. The trust fund mechanism has two clear advantages:
1/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.
2/   The most recent of which was presented in Report P-2836-ME dated June 9,
1980.



- 16 -
(i) Separate accounts are maintained for credit provided under
special programs for both accounting and monitoring purposes,
helping to isolate project credit flows from the non-credit
activities undertaken by the banks; and
(ii) Supervision of lending is centralized and focuses on the objectives
of the project.
Supply of Inputs
55.       Fertilizer.  In terms of both value and bulk, fertilizers are the
most important purchased input needed to increase agricultural production.
The Government-owned Mexican Petroleum Company (PEMEX) and Mexican Fertilizer
Corporation (FERTIMEX) are expanding production of raw materials as well as
manufacture and distribution of fertilizer. Two Bank-financed projects are
assisting expansion of production capacity to meet expected increases in
demand for phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilizers through the early 1980s.
Few farmers in rainfed districts use fertilizers presently; the extension
program would promote fertilizer use.
56.       Seeds.  Most farmers in rainfed areas use untreated creole seeds.
Although the National Seed Production Company (PRONASE) and major international
firms sell seeds in Mexico, few commercial varieties are optimized for rainfed
farming, and there are few sales outlets in most DTs. Under PLANAT, DT staff
would cooperate with seed suppliers to expand the use of proven improved
varieties. Extension agents would help farmers select appropriate seeds and
would provide mobile seed treatment facilities.
Marketing, Storage, and Guaranteed Prices
57.       Agricultural output in Mexico is marketed largely through private
channels, with floor prices provided by the National Marketing Corporation for
Basic Foods (CONASUPO) in the case of basic grains. CONASUPO administers
(a) the farm support price system and produce purchasing centers; (b) grain
storage; (c) state retail distribution outlets for food stuffs; and (d) several
major agroindustries. The guaranteed prices are set before the planting
period so as to influence farmer's planting decisions. Present guaranteed
prices are in line with world prices except for maize, which is about 30 per-
cent above as part of a government policy to achieve self sufficiency in maize
production.
Bank Experience in Previous Agricultural Projects
58.       As indicated in Part II, agriculture has accounted for nearly half
of Bank lending to Mexico. A considerable amount of experience gained under
those projects was applied in the design and preparation of the proposed
rainfed agricultural development project. The importance of farm extension
has been underscored in the Operations Evaluations reports on irrigation
projects. Recent Bank assisted projects--the Bajo Rio Bravo (Ln. 1111-ME),
Papaloapan Rural Development (Ln. 1053-ME), and Tropical Agricultural
Development (Ln. 1558-ME)--have components for improving the extension system.



- 17 -
Experience under the agricultural credit projects as summarized in the Project
Performance Audit Report on the Fourth Livestock and Agricultural Development
Project (SecM9-522 dated July 3, 1979) has also influenced the proposed
project. The following five findings of that PPAR are especially relevant to
the proposed project:
(a) It is desirable to disaggregate global credit programs into
projects with more sharply focused goals, such as introduction
of new farm technologies.
(b) The linkage of research, demonstration, and extension with
credit can significantly improve farm profits.
(c) Weaknesses in the national extension and research programs
resulted in a lack of suitable farm technologies for support
under the project.
(d)  The project demonstrated a viable means of coiinnercial and public
bank lending to small farmers supported by the technical and
financial expertise of FIRA.
(e) Interest rates to participating banks were low and did not
provide FIRA the desired level of profitablility for subloans
to low-income farmers.
Under the proposed project, extension, demonstration, and research programs
of SARH would be dramatically strengthened.  Credit would be a complementary
instrument to assist farmers' adoption of new technologies. Technicians of
credit institutions would be relieved of the need to provide extension services.
They would be responsible for loan evaluation and credit supervision instead, and
would *work closely with SARH extension teams. FIRA's experience with farmer
organization, training, program management, and credit systems that was gained
under the small-farmer lending program has influenced the design of the rain-
fed districts' operational program. Finally, interest rates have been raised
from 7.6 percent for the low-income beneficiaries for the project audited in
the above report to a minimum of 14 percent under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
59.       A staff appraisal report entitled "Rainfed Agricultural Development
Project" No. 3091-ME dated December 19, 1980 is being circulated to the Executive
Directors. The proposed project would be the first phase of the Government's
plan to accelerate agricultural development in the largely neglected rainfed
areas. It was prepared by DGDUT staff, the field staff of the nine selected
rainfed districts, and representatives of participating line agencies, in
close collaboration with the Bank, over a period of more than two years. Nego-
tiations took place in Washington, D.C. in December 1980. The Mexican
negotiating team was headed by Lic. Pedro Galicia. A supplementary project
data sheet is provided in Annex III.



- 18 -
Project Objectives and Description
60.       The project would support the National Program for Assistance to
Rainfed Areas (PLANAT). The project has two principal objectives:
(a) to strengthen the national institutional base for developing
rainfed agriculture; and
(b) to increase agricultural production in nine rainfed districts (DTs)
representative of the problems and potential of rainfed agriculture
in the country.
The project would balance the need to strengthen the fundamental elements
of the national rainfed district program with the need to gain field experience
before extending the intensive programs nationwide. It is expected that this
project would provide the basis for a sound agricultural development program
for rainfed areas of Mexico.
61.       Each of the nine districts included in the project (Map IBRD 14946)
has been chosen considering its particular circumstances such as cropping
pattern, agricultural potential, institutional aspects, degree of need for
new technologies, socio-economic status of beneficiaries, and representative-
ness of the zone, in order to ensure replicability of results while gaining
experience in a reasonable cross-section of conditions. Five of the disticts
(Cholula, Puebla; Chilpancingo, Guerrero; Morelia, Michoacan; Zapopan, Jalisco;
and Jalpa, Zacatecas) are in the heavily populated central plateau, and the
other four districts (Martinez de la Torre and Coatzacoalcos, Veracruz and
Cardenas and Villahermosa, Tabasco) are in the humid tropics where land is
greatly underutilized and demand for agricultural products is growing rapidly
due to petroleum and industrial development.
Project Description
62.       The project, in the nine districts, would include the following:
(a) a farm extension program following the general pattern of the
training and visit system;
(b) production systems research and on-farm testing of new technology
in support of the extension program;
(c) a soil and water conservation program, including various types
of terraces, contour furrows and small water storage reservoirs,
covering approximately 65,000 ha and benefitting about 7,000
farmers;
(d) a forestry program covering approximately 10,500 ha of pine
plantations, 900 ha of on-farm woodlots, and 2,000 ha of
windbreak trees, benefitting about 1,000 farm families;
(e) provision of short- and medium-term farm credit to 37,000 farmers
to enable them to adopt the technical packages promoted by the
extension service; and



- 19 -
(f) a rural works program, including the construction or improve-
Tnent of some 2,880 km of farm to market roads servicing some
80,000 farm families, 7,000 ha of small irrigation schemes,
and drainage works covering some 30,000 ha servicing about
2,000 farm families.
63.       In addition to the district programs, the project would provide
support at the national level for:
(a) a research program to support activities undertaken at the
district level in the project and to establish improved
technologies for subsequent application in other districts;
(b) training of research, extension, and soil and water conser-
vation service technical staff (675 man-years at the MS level
and 100 man-years at the PhD level);
(c) field training--three regional training and information centers
would be established by the extension service and INIF would
establish two forestry training centers; and
(d) specialized consultant services in extension, research, soil
conservation, monitoring and evaluation--about 40 man-years.
Project Implementation
64.       The project would be carried out over five years.  SARH would
be responsible for project implementation, except for credit and a part of the
rural roads component which would be the responsibility of FICART and FIRA
(for credit) and SAPOP (for roads). DGDTJT would appoint a subdirector as
PLATIAT program coordinator.
Farm Extension
65.       The DT organization offers a sound framework for a comprehensive and
effective extension service. Although extension quality and coverage have
been improved under the PT umbrella, mainly because technicians are allocated
to specific geographical work areas where they also live, the training and
organization aspects require further improvement. The proposed project would
improve the extension system by decentralizing staff and intensifying coverage;
the ratio of zone staff to farmers would double --from 1:1,000 to 1:500.
Fxtension work would generally fit the model of the training and visit system
in all nine districts so as to: (a) provide regular and frequent contact
between farmers and extension agents; (b) have extension workers concentrate
on Contact Farmers who have accepted a development plan, and attempt to reach
a wider number of farmers through demonstrations; and (c) ensure regular
extension staff contact with subject matter specialists and research staff to
improve the quality of technical recormendations. SARF has placed extension
coordinators in each of the nine project districts to oversee the strengthening
of the extension system. The coordinators would report to the District Chief
of Operations.



- 20 -
66.       Additional support for extension services is provided by specialist
technicians of the Subsecretariats of Forestry and Livestock. Each of these
Subsecretariats would also operate special programs such as veterinary labora-
tories and disease control and nurseries.
Home Extension
67.       Extension staff in each district include trained home extension
agents who promote improvement of family incomes and welfare through several
innovative programs. The work of these agents centers on vegetable and
fruit gardens and small animal raising around the farmers' homes to be main-
tained by wives and children. Increasing the productivity of these traditional
activities would have a direct impact on family nutrition and provide some
marketable surplus. The home extension staff would provide assistance not
only in production, but in related problems of health and sanitation, nutrition
and food preparation. They would also promote community services available
from other institutions, such as basic literacy training and childhood vaccin-
ation programs, which also have an impact on farm productivity. Under the
proposed project, at least one family extension worker would be hired and
trained for each unit. This program would lead to greater participation of
women in productive activities in the project districts.
Research
68.       Although much of the basic technology for the packages mentioned
above already exists, considerable farmer-field level research is needed
to establish the most productive farming systems for specific areas. The
research program supported by the project would therefore emphasize support to
the extension service. The program would perform local field research and
trials, on a cooperative basis with farmers and extension agents, to prove and
demonstrate farming systems. Complementary production oriented research would
also be conducted at regional stations and headquarters of the national
research institutes. The project would strengthen the link between research
and extension to ensure that the extension workers promote proven and tested
farming practices and that the research services respond to the problems faced
by farmers.
69.       PLANAT would finance training at the MS and PhD level for the
institutes' staff. Field research in the nine districts would be expanded.
Such research would be the responsibility of a series of mobile field research
teams that would operate out of the INIA, INIP, or INIF regional centers.
Complementary production oriented research would also be conducted at regional
research stations and headquarters of the institutes. The program would
perform local field research and trials, on a cooperative basis with farmers
and extension agents, to prove and demonstrate farming systems. Regular
meetings would be scheduled between the research and extension staff to review
research findings and to discuss farm production problems identified by the
extension agents, and more formal training courses for extension staff would
be periodically conducted by SMS and research staff. All of these actions
would serve the farmer by providing the extension agent with thorough up-to-
date technical knowledge acquired in the district and by keeping field research
oriented to the actual technical problems and constraints faced by farmers in
the district.



- 21 -
Soil and Water Conservation
70.       Conservation programs in the nine districts would be strengthened
and expanded. Most importantly, the programs would emphasize the link between
production and soil and water conservation, a consideration largely ignored at
present as resources are concentrated on those areas with greatest erosion
problem regardless of their agricultural potential. Conservation programs
would be closely coordinated with extension services. The project would also
expand programs for land inventories and soil potential mapping, field level
studies of soil erosion, soil textures, chemical composition, and nutrient
levels, and water harvesting. Approximately 65,000 ha in the nine districts
would directly benefit from improved soil and water conservation practices.
Forestry
71.       The main component of the forestry program would be the establish-
ment of 10,500 ha of pine forest plantations on sites where natural regenera-
tion is not possible because of over-grazing and erosion. In addition, two
new programs would be introduced: the establishment of 900 ha of on-farm
firewood lots and the establishment of 2,000 ha of windbreak/forage trees.
Small-Scale Irrigation and Drainage
72.       Works for small-scale irrigation serving 7,000 ha and drainage
serving 30,000 ha would be carried out by SARH. The Government requires
beneficiaries of irrigation works to contribute at least one-third of project
investment cost as well as to pay the entire cost of operation and mainte-
nance. To ensure a productive impact in the proposed project, the Government
would support irrigation sub-projects with an economic rate of return of at
least 15 percent. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that for each
sub-project, average investment per family would not exceed US$10,000 (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.09).
Feeder Roads
73.       To ensure adequate market access in the nine DTs, nearly 3,000 km
of feeder roads would be constructed or improved. Road construction would be
the responsibility of SARH and SAHOP. All roads would be constructed according
to SAHOP's design standards which are acceptable to the Bank.
Credit
74.       Many farmers who wish to adopt the technical packages to be promoted
by the extension service will need short-term credit to purchase seeds and
fertilizers, rent machinery, and pay other production expenses.  Those farmers
who purchase breeding livestock, machinery and equipment, or establish or
renovate tree crops would generally need medium-term credit to finance their
development programs.  Under the project, the number of farmers in the nine
DTs using credit is expected to double, and the credit delivery system would
be strengthened to provide better support to the farm development program
(para 52). To facilitate the flow of credit, each district has established a
Credit Programming Committee to identify credit needs for the district and
guarantee compatibility of lending proposals with district development
activities.



- 22 -
75.       As explained in paras 50-54, the proposed loan would partially
finance subloans made by commercial banks and BANRURAL to project beneficiaries.
Short- and medium-term loans made by commercial banks would be rediscounted by
FIRA and short- and medium-term loans made by BANRURAL would be rediscounted
by FICART under the same terms and conditions as other credit programs in
Mexico financed by the Bank (draft Project Agreements, Schedule 1, para 5).
In July, the Government raised interest rates on agricultural loans to a level
comparable to loans charged to industrial borrowers. Minimum interest rates
for medium-term loans currently range from 14 percent for loans to low income
farmers borrowing for the first time to 21 percent for higher income farmers
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 1, para 4); interest rates on new loans
are adjusted annually to reflect changes in the 12 month average cost of
borrowed funds to Mexican Banks (draft Project Agreements, Schedule 1, para 8).
Short-term interest rates would be no less than 15.5 percent for group
borrowers (normally ejidatarios, 1/ comuneros 2/ and small holders, who
because of their low incomes are poor credit risks as individual borrowers and
therefore obliged to form groups, jointly and severally responsible for loan
servicing) and not less than 19 percent for others (draft Project Agreements,
Schedule 1, para 10). Assurances were obtained that short-term interest rates
would be reviewed annually with the Bank (draft Project Agreements, Schedule 1,
para 11).
National Level Program
76.       In addition to the specific district development programs, the
project would strengthen institutions participating in rainfed agriculture
development at regional and national levels. Provision would be made to draw
on the experience of successful extension projects financed by the Bank in
other countries by providing funds for: (a) in-country training courses on
the training and visit methodology, assisted by consultants experienced in
this methodology; and (b) visits by Mexican technicians to other countries.
About 75 percent of the institution-building support would be for the three
research institutes: INIA, INIP and INIF. This has two functions: to
provide in-depth research support at the regional level for the applied
research programs in the nine districts, and to build a technology base for
additional rainfed districts to be considered for a second phase PLANAT
project. It consists largely of the recruitment and training of staff
for field level teams for 40 more rainfed districts in the case of INIA and
a blend of staff and research infrastructure for field level teams and regional
center support for such teams in the case of INIF and INIP. The training
component provides for 478 man-years of overseas fellowships, 340 man-years of
local fellowships, about 1,900 man-months of short term in-service training,
and 486 man-months of specialist consultant time. Many of the consultants
would be recruited locally and the cost per man-month would vary between
US$6,000 and US$10,000 depending on the level of specialist experience.
1/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.
2/   Comuneros are a remnant of an ancient Aztec custom, where the entire
indigenous community owns and exploits the land; these are generally
small groups in the remote areas.



- 23 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
77.       DGDUT through its PLANAT office would be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation of the activities in the nine project districts and of the
national support activities financed under the project. For these purposes,
the PLANAT prcj,zt office has set up a special monitoring and evaluation
group. In collaboration with the participating agencies, this group would
establish and manage an information system for: (a) reporting physical
progress of project activities; (b) evaluating the impact of these activities
on an ongoing basis; and (c) identifying shortcomings in performance in
a timely manner. Since the central objective of the PLANAT program is to
increase production under rainfed conditions, major focus would be placed on
measuring changes in crop and livestock output under the project and to relate
these changes to the various components that would comprise the assistance
packages to farmers. The semi-annual reports to the Bank would include the
findings and recommendations of the monitoring and evaluation unit. In
addition, the Bank would receive a copy of the unit's annual report to DGDUT
management in which its accomplishments in relation to its tasks for the year
are outlined. The PLANAT office would also prepare a completion report which
would include, in addition to physical achievements, an evaluation of project
impact. In support of improvements in monitoring and evaluation, the project
would finance 60 man-months of consultants services and purchase of data
processing equipment.
Project Cost and Finance
78.       The project is estimated to cost US$797 million of which US$232
million would be in foreign exchange. A breakdown of project cost by compo-
nent is included in the loan and project summary. The proposed Bank loan
would finance 35 percent of project cost, equivalent to the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project, plus 8 percent of local costs. A small portion
of local cost financing is justified so that the Bank may maintain overall a
significant participation in this project which has a lower foreign exchange
component than most other agricultural development projects financed by the
Bank in Mexico. The balance of project cost would be financed by the Government
(40 percent) and by the beneficiaries using credit through FICART and FIRA
(20 percent) and their own resources (5 percent). To ensure prompt initiation
of the project, recruitment and training of extension, research, and project
unit staff have started as has preparation of bidding documents for selected
equipment and civil works at the district and unit levels. Retroactive
finance of up to US$6 million is proposed to cover eligible expenditures after
August 1, 1980.
79.       Government budget allocations are usually not released until after
the beginning of the year, and this results in a shortage of resources and
services during an agriculturally critical time in rainfed areas. To ensure
that the budgeted funds are available in a timely fashion, the Government has
decided to establish a revolving fund to finance PLANAT operations during the
early part of each year. The fund would be replenished from the budget of the
agencies drawing upon it.



- 24 -
Disbursement
80.       The project would be executed over a five year period and the Loan
disbursed through FY87. During the grace period of the Loan, the Bank would
disburse at 45 percent of eligible expenditures. The disbursement percentage
would be decreased thereafter so as to result in an overall average partici-
pation by the Bank of 35 percent.
Procurement
81.       Civil works would total US$125 million.  Works would be scattered
over the project area, and individual contracts would not be large enough
to attract foreign bidders. Mexico's construction industry is experienced
and capable of executing works at costs competitive with international
levels. Contracts for construction of civil works would be procured follow-
ing local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. To encourage competition,
at least 60 percent of civil works would be constructed under contracts
having an estimated value of US$350,000 or more and let under local compet-
itive bidding. Because of the number of small works included in the project,
executed by several agencies, a substantial portion (up to 40 percent) of
civil works contracts are expected to be let in contracts of less than
US$350,000 each, using the Government's ordinary procedures. In most cases,
these contracts would be subject to local competitive bidding. Force account
would be used in some cases where the Government agencies have an established
and demonstrated capability, particularly construction of feeder roads and
drilling of wells. In cases where bidder interest is low because of the
isolation and small size of project works, negotiated contracts would be
allowed. Experience under previous projects has shown these practices to
be reasonable and efficient.
82.       Materials and equipment, including operation and maintenance
equipment, chemical reagents, farm, scientific, office, and information and
documentation equipment and vehicles, would cost about US$41 million. These
goods would be purchased by several agencies in small quantities in accordance
with implementation requirements. Where feasible, contracts for the pur-
chase of materials and equipment shall be grouped into packages of at least
US$350,000 equivalent and procured through international competitive bidding.
Smaller contracts could be procured through local competitive bidding or
local shopping in accordance with the Government's ordinary procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. Tractors and equipment for on-farm development,
valued at about US$21 million would be purchased directly by the farmers
from local suppliers, considering local availability of spare parts and
service. There are a sufficient number of suppliers of such goods representing
both domestic and international manufacturers to ensure adequate choice and
competitive prices. Because of the competitiveness of local suppliers and
the strong representation of international manufacturers through Mexican firms,
it is expected that most contracts would be awarded to Mexican bidders.
Bidding documents would be kept in the PLANAT office and made available for
Bank review on request. Procurement arrangements are set forth in Schedule 2
to the draft Guarantee Agreement.



- 25 -
Project Impact
83.       The project would offer extension packages supported by credit to
about 37,000 farm families in the nine participating DTs who presently do not
receive credit. About 80 percent of these farm families have annual incomes
of less than US$1,500 (i.e., less than US$300 per capita), which is below
the relative poverty level. Their incomes are expected to increase sub-
stantially as a result of the project, on average tripling over 12 years.
84.       Some 55,000 farmers out of the estimated total of 275,000 farmers
in the project districts are now regularly using credit and would also benefit
from improved extension services as a result of the project. Average family
incomes of half of these farmers are below the relative poverty line, and
about 90 percent of these farmers have average family incomes below US$2,500.
District services would be available to all farmers in the district; it is
expected that 70,000 farmers, while not using credit, would adopt some fea-
tures of the technologies being promoted by the extension services. However,
they would benefit to a lesser extent than the 92,000 farmers using credit
and adopting the complete technical packages. These 70,000 farmers repre-
sent a target group group for subsequent phases of PLANAT; they are people
who for a variety of reasons including their outlying location, lack of
resources, and perception of risk of adopting new technology, will require
a longer time to develop their farms.
85.       The rural roads proposed under the project would also be of sig-
nificant benefit to 80,000 farm families located within their area of influ-
ence. In most instances, farmers would, for the first time, have ready
and assured access to markets, losses due to transport spoilage would be
reduced and it would be possible to guarantee a regular supply of farm
inputs. These roads will also have social benefits to all families in
their areas of influences.
86.       About 60 percent of the farm families in the nine districts would
benefit from one or more of the directly productive components of the project.
At full development in 12 years, the project is expected to result in annual
incremental production of 180,000 tons of basic crops and feed grains (corn,
beans, wheat, rice, chickpea, soybeans and sorghum); 14,000 tons of cacao,
coffee, and coconut; 240,000 tons of fruits and vegetables (mostly banana
and citrus); 124,000 tons of alfalfa; 17,000 tons of beef and pork; and
62 million liters of milk.
Economic Rate of Return
87.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 21 percent,
calculated on the basis of the benefits derived from the investment plans
adopted and carried out by some 37,000 families which will participate in
the credit program as well as 55,000 additional families benefiting fully
from the rest of the components of the project. The rate of return has
been calculated on the basis of 83 percent of total project cost for which
benefits were quantifiable; 50 percent of the district-level road component
and 75 percent of all national-level investments were not included. With
the exception of Villahermosa and Cardenas districts, the opportunity cost of



- 26 -
labor was estimated to be 50 percent of the equivalent market wage for
unskilled labor on the grounds that there is considerable surplus family labor
at the farm level with very limited possibilities for off-farm work. In the
case of Villahermosa and Cardenas, the family wage rate was considered equal
to the mark-et wage level because of the high demand for labor from PEMEX's oil
activities in the area.
88.       Sensitivity Analysis.  The economic rate of return would be in the
range of 19 percent to 18 percent with assumptions of: (a) 10 percent to
20 percent cost overruns of components; and (b) decrease in the benefits
by 10 percent to 20 percent. The main factors that could delay project
benefits are adverse weather and deficiencies in organization. These factors
would influence not only a few individual parameters but would have an overall
impact on all crop and livestock benefits. Thus a switching value test on the
assumption of delays in reaching full development of all incremental production
was performed. A delay of about 2-1/2 years would make the economic rate of
return equal to the opportunity cost of capital.
Project Risks
89.       The main risks associated with the project are institutional and
climatic. Regarding institutional aspects, the major problem would be to
ensure effective coordination between the various line agencies involved
in project execution. In this context the development of a strong decisive
district organizational structure would be a vital element. The most serious
climatic risk would be drought, particularly in the plateau and mountain
districts in areas where supplementary irrigation is not generally available.
However, under the project it is expected that this risk would be reduced
by adopting better conservation and farming practices.
Environmental Impact
90.       The project is expected to have beneficial effects on the environment.
Soil and water conservation and forestry programs would reduce erosion losses
in the project districts and would serve as a prototype for more extensive and
effective conservation programs. The improved farm practices promoted under
the project would ensure development appropriate to the capacity of the land
so as to maintain its productivity and safe application of agro-chemicals.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
91.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between Banco de Mexico, S.A. and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between Banco Nacional de Credito Rural,
S.A. and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.



- 27 -
92.        Special features of the draft Loan, Guarantee, and First and Second
Project Agreements are refered to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III.
93.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
94.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 30, 1980



- 28 -
raxa I
TABLE 3A
M EXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        hFFFRENCE GFROIPS (WEICHTEE AVC.ACEFS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM._)                                                          -MOST RECENT ESt IMATE)-_ __
TOTAL            1972.5
AGR ICULTURAL     977.2                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            t!TnlLF INCOMF
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBfA            ERURnpF
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   400.0        750.0    1590.0                1562.9                     2749.5
ENERGY CONSUIMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       770.0      1047.0    13P4.0                 1055.9                    164i.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STAISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MlLLIONS)      36.4         50.3       65.4
URBAN POPELATION  (PERCENT OF TOTAI.) 51.0        59.0       65.2                  63.b                      51.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          205. 0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 1S REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. W-.                        IN.0         26.0       33.0                  78.1                      77.2
PER SQ. PO. AGRICULTURAL LAND       36.0        52.0       67.0                  81. 7                    129. 5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 yRS.                           45.6        46.5       45.6                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          51. 0        50. 0      50.9                  54. 7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.4         3. 5       3. 5                  3.9                       P. 2
POPULATION GR0wTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.1         3. 3       3. 3                  2. 7                      1.6
URBAN                                5.0         4.8        4.6                   4.1                        3.3
CRUDE NIRTH PATE (PER TIHOUSAND)      45.0        42.0       38.0                  31.8                      22. P
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       12.0         9. 0       N. 0                  8. 9                      S. 9
GROSS REPRODUCTION PATE                3. 2        3. 1       3.0                   2.5                        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1      845.7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            .,       21.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        100.0      101.0                 106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                   110.0        112.0      114.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAIS PER DAY)           65.0         66.0       66.0                  65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         27.0        27. 0      27. O                 33. 7                     50.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       14.0         9.8        6.0                   8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0          62.4       65.0                  63.1                      67.F
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             78.0        74.0       60.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SArE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         54.0       62.0                  65. 9
iRBAN                                           71.0       70.                   80.4
RURAL                                 ..        29.0       49.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISOPSAI (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  62.3
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  79.4
RURAL                                ..         13.0       14.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1700.0      1481.0    1P15.0                 1849. 2                    030. I
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      1613.0    1398.0                 122 7.2                    q25.h
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BeD
TOTAL                              617.0       831.0      851.0                 480.3                    27q.7
URBAN                                ..        549.0      70 B. 0
RURAL                                 ..      1289.0    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                    ..                       17. r
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZL OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5. 4        5. 7
URBAN                               3. 7         ,.7
RURAL                               5.2          5.2.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2. 9        2. 5        ..                    .
U'RBAN                               2. 6        2. 2
RURAL                                3. 4        3.2
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PEREENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 .         59.0
LRBAN                                ..         80. 7
RURAL                                 ..        2P.0



- 29 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAI INDICATORS DATA SIIEET
MEXICO                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGUTED AVERACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEIAN                EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSIED LNRCO172ENT RATIOi
PRIMARY:      fOTAL                   80.0        104.0      116.0                    99.7                      105.9
IALE                   82.0         107.0      119.6                  101.0                      109.3
rDiAL}.                77.0         102.0      114.0                   99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    11.0         22.0       39.0                    34.4                       64.0
MIALE                  14.0          27.0       42.0                   33.5                       71.1
FEHtALE                 8.0          17.0       36.0                   34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  24.0             24.0          ..                   38.2                       28. 8
PUPIL-TEAC}iER RATIO
PRLMARY                               44.0         46.0       46.0                    30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                             13.0         14.0       17.0                    14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           65.0          74.0       76.0                   76.3
CONSIFPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            14.0         24.0       42.4                    43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            91.0        278.0      306.0                   245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            18.0         60.0       85.0                    84.2                      11P.5
NEWSPAFER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPtULATION                    79.0           ..         ..                    63. 3                      93. 0
CINEMA ANINUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0              5.0        4. 2                    ..                        5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10993.0          14493.5   18951.2
FE14ALE (PERCENT)                     15.2         17.4       19.0                    22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 55. 1        45.0       39.0                    37. 1                      37. 1
INDUSTRY (PERCLNTI                    19.5         23.0       26.0                    23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   30.2          28.8       28. 8                  31.5                       40. 9
MALL                                    51.1          47.4       46.8                   48.9                       55.9
FE14ALL                                  9.2          10.1       10. 7                  14.0                       26. ?
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1. 6          1.7        1.7                     1.4                       1. 0
INCOTEG DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOIUSEHOLDS        ..           ..
HICHESf 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61. I/c          60. 7      57. 7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT CF HOUSEHOLDS        3. 4/c       3.3        2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT CF HOUSEHOLDS    9. 8/c           9.9        9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTOtATED ABSOLlTE FOVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPTTA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      270.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..      216.0                   190.P
ESTIMA;ED RELATIV'E POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (.SS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      332.0                   474.0
RLRAL                                   ..           ..      332.0                   332.5                     385.8
FSTLHATLD  PlATiON BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCUME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RL!CAL                                  ..           ..         .                        ..
. P. I ol a lae
U appLicable.
NOTES
F-, r>cp a.ereges for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of coEntries
armOg2 rtc indi.!ators depends ott availability of data and is not uniform.
'b  LClnss  -r.rvino roced, d/t5   (or 1960 refer rt. any yeaz between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
atl :971]; aod for M.ost Recent Estimate. between 1974 ar,n 1978.
/c    963.
Mos-t ceent estimate ct GNP Per capita is for 1979, all other drta are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 30 -
Page 3
bo~ Aitlh-u-h ab "dat  are drown S onoace           --elly judged rho most ourhorkatto- end reliable, it should also ho noted that they soy  ot be inter-
earlcatc cocc,l,e hc_oto of rho  lack o  aoda-dloo  dafoijtl-t end concpts  iced to diffne-nt  oureenis  olecing rho dote.  The data .te  aeon-...
rhcf-u,  oofc  tc  rsoele cdoe  of -agnirode, todicato  -erda, and oharaterioe co-l  maJor d iffer......            te enrone.
Thecoeoo roiser()as  acne.c.unrc.group.o  rtho colle-t c...oty sod (2)1 aroccY grasP nith tnoe    threeg    ooete   h   onr   ru
of shecchcc   counry  (exept fr "Caital Srylca011 Eparatt-" 9-op chor  "Middle Inoose North dAnfc  ad Middle East" is chosen becss  of  trngr
u.slcc,Loscl  cftlres.    n rn  efreso ..group dare theeareo  era p Iplsto- seighted afith-soto ment. foI                hoitrsd sheen only abena
lean  hal!f of coo  otore    rgopbode   o  rut  odosor Joc  re   oraoRf  nsrreaamng the todro.t.ee idiepends nor esleii o
.ura etc Is ca  atior,      iacla  mat he neer-l-d to-1i re             ...g erge- of o- ne   i_t_ea  to crarhee   Tb- e  -ser  geear  only soefu1lj in _openingte    s
ofcolodlc.ero  scarleaes g the  -tounY end e-f--oc  croups..                                                                                                   t     -
:152 uRic  ttsaasead~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C sIc.)   -Ppnilatton ear. .Pdioatdaist                     - f Poplton dIvided by nunbe  no p1rertato  phy-
3fric -curd  -  sicsat  of ugriouIlcora  -r-  -sd I-spo..rlly or pnonenly                 Pnnlction  Pe_ Nlr. log Pora-   Pe palstion dieided by nubhr of pnaretioim
cautac-,  erkor cod  acten ...rd.nt  ct  lefelo;197  tcr.                       axl  ed femal  gn-d-to.n.r.e..  pentesinc  cacaos  ad seals ran  ounce.
IlN -- lI'P pccata0                                      ..a  r  urn   maket pee,i . al- P..eio   r  Iaete1e- --  d   toa.ara.sdnsa-Pplc nma.
cas 9cc 1        IJ-kAA                                                                    unhIn,.sed nuret)  dvedbthicepnvearber of heepite1 bede
calse  la tco  cne-li- method aWorld Sc  ca   f9749 boom); 1960,                         aviel   n  alrad;db print   genera  sadapriidhstaene-
J9bL, -sd  1979 dar.-                                                                         hahilitia  pnobten. . gdspr tate ens.  -dtebliaheent          pemnpyiteff aod
iNERCY aafepIat PER CAPITA                 t.salcoscptiou upcosnrui yeo   (col                   byatet oa hyioda.  Etatblisb-ets prenidiag prinoipsily ...stedis1
..d   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                            ~c roer  anot  -Imlded.  MRel heepitels, hesia, inulodo health and neditat
ond lgolue  poteloxa,uotsrl jossod Iydec-,  -ocl-  end gnrenleo-                   an asti peinesoly staffed by a phyimian (baa by    rediest.. asistant,
uriccp) I  hifarumnf coo  oqueclot pr cpirolh   197,  od1          9f                oseUchge   t.)wso  niEc  ia-ptient aor.edatioo end poevide
dato.                                                                                           aitted esoge of tid'isal faeilities.  For statietica1 parposee urbsn hospi-
POPUUTIIN AND VITAL STATISTICS ~~~~~~~talc isclsdo flOe prienipa1 g-1ea  sad spentalsed hospitals, arid nra..l
.1 t..,  id-Y.r (illi...  . IfJ,ly1; 160,  970,..d  978        hoopitojs leastI or nura  hospitals sod ndinal sad  atermity  -ntere.
ToalPpuaic,lt-ea n2lou)-  uofJly1  16,  90,cdH9S                                             dinisaer  eriat Bd-1               ealsnBcxiaeleo-              o  rdicare
data.                            t1        -.I    b.1   ..   ...io                             onn  hospitals divided by the otbhe  of beds.
dIffret otuitioc   of cehb         rea  ny efc   np-ebility  of data                     OSN
11960, 1970, cnd 1978 dora.                                             As Seties of Hes--ehe1d (roesoa  ee  howe.ihldl     etl  une    n  ma-
PPocletUa  Pcictco          -C     -tpp]ti p              t.....b..dI190                     A h.sehe:hld  ...sit.of at a anep of fadividus    ohs.sar  living qoartoro
Popuatin i  ner fIsT- trret ppoicuoxprooatontcrehond o  19f          ad Ithem   s      -eals.  A hoender or lodgee say or say sot be ieloded in
cclpopuletior by sic end sc and thoir  ertlity and fetlity r-t-o                       the    . bosheld fo  sa iete  pspoee
P-cjrctio  prsetoes- foe ea tolt   run copleof three len..xesum                         Av-rscs aebor   of ess  orrs    tota.1 sra,ad cral1 - Aner.g. er
log  iif n.oPeone-y  tr birth Icor..asiu   oith ccntey's per capI'ta imses                ban of per-os  per nos  is all srhes, sod rera1 ...eupid neseenn..Iel
1ho-,  xcd fasslo  life  opcrcc    tohilieget77.  po .  The  oe                           dwllg..repeoti-ly.  Dwellings  eoleda  o oe   e t -stost-e  sod
Inetilifty  cocrdlog to  ut--  1-1e cud Pos  family planing pttirf enc..                Rcs  no.Pi tpsntniivia.s.fdolie)     oa.shs   rdrea
df_ccxtryi  nbnnine             Io ftheenu.c..            onono  sreiy                   Tonvontonal d-Ieliag  with e1ectetitiy ilivngqatn   speo-oungn
co ietlity  -rodo for pccjcotie  puytsnfttl  ubn                                                         In ua   relig   epciey
Ireticore ospuottoc       o to ottioxary popoletiot thec  in n  groeth since.          ftt1    b- -             -      1   gr.pt l
the Motth ernt is equeltothe deeth rtot, and cIs  the eg                 ..r.nnc-     EDUATIONo
ma.   ... o--cot   Ths. Is achi-d only after f-rtilicy rete  decline tO                 Adlusted LEsrl tasnMte
th -cla et local of a.tt  co  r-pr-d-cian rat, ohon Iac  g...nctie                  Prlsaroshl                    I*ed, l sand female - frs.. tstal, male and  sl
ofc    th oyeo   irsaii Ifecoh. pjthe h . st -irtancy   opfono  sine waslni.         esrell    t of 'al ages at the eracy leve  as percentages of reeatn
nerihc t...an0the huntsho  rbtr I poetd   ceuteitc   iacppito                               prlesry  chtsee-age pspultia..s; srslly i-lsdas  hbildraagd 61
in- th  yae111   -o   h   oao   eline of frrtilityra1.tcton pler-                           years bun  djasntd fsr different leogthe of priescy sduoetion.; tr
const   .T  PPIt.   .r~.g      h   ..   h.~.i t level.                           -            :osotrise withisnivarsa  .eda.atiem  asroleet say arced li percet
.i.ac  . anttncry .. hcoeio   irecd-thpoeectotcufyplnu                                        since eas  ppil  are halos or ahsve the sf1i.ia1 sohoel sge.
F..tire bx..it her  mabe...oedarv sohol - real.eclfso  'feele - Cntasd asl shov; soresdory
Pent.  in. -. Mid-yee  popolatlon Per square kilc..uero  (100    - -oee) at                    prsdngor4votee,o                     teah f t pri-i    d  tiserotns    n 
Poe no. ho  ori-jltor1 laud - Computed as  b..o. for egriroltae1l.fed                          ....5ly~ or 12 t17 yeeos sf cgs; noevepoodeoansresac  ga..orally
-1y.                                                                  -l.d.d.                                                  ...1 i.-tit-ti...~~~~awulded
Ponolution Anc Str--rtpoa  foret) - Child-c  (0-l4 y-ann, nookiog-oge (11-                     VI'incue  ehanl   Voaril,                ae        pog  .n whioboeaetdp
64 yese), sod retteed (65 yee_  end Ice) on mno-cetec- at std-yee IIIo-                        deony o  usdeprt-h      teef  snedar  ie grshttspttteais..
latian; 1969, 1970, end 1978  aa                                                             PpoIat-nch.r rtio -or r . ad sagnada   - Tonsi  tndeets  --1o1ld in
1Pocleo  boot1-h ions, (corcear) - rtu  - Asnuel ilthwe   Iec    f tota  old-                    primary and ..e.ndary level  divided by senhre of  ot ..h-r  in the
ferpplooef o   90i.  196_6 0-~,70, ead 1970-f S.                                      _srrospondde   _eal..
IPoealt1ia  lr-th iRt  (Pncrott  -   hco-8Anns -Ieo-thrtn of urln Popa-                        Adolt liten...y  arri. (epirebt) - Literate adins  .Ish   to reed sod write)
letonofo  191-6.  96070  end' l9~70_                                                      anpocostage of ttal Melt pepalatto  aged iS your  sod Ieer
Crude Birthiifete fert     Arxd         ..A.o Ilice~ bioth  Per thnones.d of cid-oy-o
pooaios; 1960, 1979. and 1978 dote.                                                 CONSuWTION
Crade Deeti fete  (-o  thoosuod) - buse.d  doatho Pec thoased of old-pee                     P......e  lee  (esp tsoosed osraatis) - .. asogor cons c-poise eator
ouatol1960, 1970, sad 1978 dats.                                                      tensotgls  tha neight p.rir.-; sa1ldes ash1l...e., hearses. ..d
cross Reproduction, ixeAescaIs. xabo  of dxubseeon                    'I,fberi                 silIr-y vahiele..
to   o lrProdutiv    ctd' if shoepornrspentcerii_c-ire-                           mRcdla F-ci-rcs (ret thossand pprlettor) - All types of roiosfred
etiy crt   nsyfo-yea  Ioro                 neding 0016,17,ad1).                           bodat   ognrI pablin per thoseend of popolsaton;  -ulae  ani-
family Plutac-Acceotocsdooe   (Aunudl -                      I .a.nal  co Ine c   ocptoco       nsdJrcevrsi  ce.ntre  sod in yese  ohn rnoietrotiot of nadia now
of birch-coorcl dooiceuandre ccspics of nettool faullo plociof Pr...a.    can in  ff-c; dnsfor rerot years say not he  -parblo sisee nes
f  hild-beaing  ago (15-i44 ye...)  h.c sobinth--ctr-1 d-cic-  to                 TV tooocR-        rtissd  ousin      Mrator     rhodett
al  c.cl    ansi  wan  age grop.                                                     go...n-1 pablie par theasead pepaletiso; e..eldos eiond  TV r-eiv-rs
FOOD AND NLrTRITION                                                      in ~~~~~~~~~~...t cotnise end is years whoa esgient-tie of TM sets  -a  tat effort.
Ind.. of Pdond  rndsctioo poeCye   71-1969-fl-ill) -loden  If Per 0151p05 anoe                  ine of "dsilp   earlitretas                or"doies            ntdOlub
p-od-ru   of ni  toa.dcoacdities P Prdnutio  encao   ned and fee  end                         ieaten denond pri-riary to resending ge..... Iarm.  Iisceidered
is on c-ed-r year hesin.  C-osditie-c.v.. priocry goods (r.g. sancc-t-x-                     ro be "daily" if it appear  at leas.t loan ti-saweo..k
Ieta    f osger) which  -eo edble x-d c.ntoieotrritent  (e.g. coffee end              Tie.ocaAtsdmear setoeTa-snd nthnnbrf
tae exluded).  Aggregte  rdcico   ahoocyishsdO                                         ihn    oddra   the  er  mldo    disost                          e-niea
aetiosu       . .vcg  prod.ce  pric  enight; 19h1-h5, 1970, sod 1979 data,                   sod nbil' smite.
Per capita   ppnlo of uslorie   (pret  trgice-te)   Coepoted fr.r
eucey squle-let of net food snepliet cvuilxble in co.otey peP cc.pine                 LARic FORCE
Pee day.  Ae-ilblo sopplies coprise: d.s.ti  productIon,,iports los                     Totai lbrPes(thousands) - toe-go-lly  -cti- persons. ino1ading
noporte, end changes in stock.  Net naplto   esoldoanima  feed, seat,                     _Ioe  febroe F.enesmlydhnoldigoeos,rdne,e
quntiie  undin fond processing, sad loose  in distribution.  Rsqoir-  -                    niiia5i  vnnacotis  r   o   npcbi;16,17   n
sen cet.   -dE estimatod by PAt, base d us plyiogs  osda for nora   ti                   98 data.i          i                           -rl;160   90
ciyedhealth c...tidetiueng   ecsna   r --osure  body Zchtcltt .i.....                       prcn)      inslu           f         Pror .e pnotage  If Iu lbor torus.
cud ecdistrihation of populton1          n  olown   1   ooetforcate ot                  Aeclur   enen  -'Lao  forn_  in frtg  forestry thantg sod
tosel  i-ve; 1561-6    1, 197.  u  1977 data,                                          fishingu  p-nnotrag  of  ttel labor force; 1960. 1970'and 1978 deta.
Per  aptn  aeoly  f Trtoi  (ross cor dud) - P,otein  otn  ofM cPit.                Isdostry mcot       ao   oc  inmsa,n tune.mnafeetariog
on   aply If food per day.  Ne  supya   odI   eie    soo.f-                            adennily   ao   u    us   ecsgeo   oe   oor furr   9i
q  ormesfeei  oune    sulwtdh   OAyoi fforcinmon197   nd1978r dare
pulseprotix,  i  bih 10grat shold   ff.di hod animalD prt-id. f hos  stn-         anviycsnea    ptda  toa, maeo,~ en                      tol.   abrfrea
sosaelcrtu   bseo   9gatc                     o  pro    "It",so  79  Pre- of..t'
tsmlpoeoa   oaeooieteoed   rpndLya 1   nteTxe.ecrue  of. totaL,r male cad femls, poaltif t                                                           llsgI eepemivly
Ifel  P  6o  Sooey  11-l  iytfi andi 197  data.     1g..  I-i.                       1960,- 1970, ad199dt.Tecr0i'spnlpuertsmfotg
Per apitatooteu  euter iro  cotei undrI.n.- Perein                                  arns  re instwaredtnonIee
Chil  (cos 1cf     hirehtoy   Suto ro  thonsd) -n. a a  dI       Tha.po   tlctad-c         bet !ttotal labr? fere.td        tt1,.I, d               .Ibrf
ag  rop-1yastocIdre  in1 cIft-age                    proup;ion noo  d23lo toi. Ifc-cc                    o   .. -.            f-       -I ,            1-..:Pt-
telan  daotasioed  iro  lIf  tablet;               _ 1960, 1979 sdh19ff1data                      1970c scCcllTdt175d.          h.   ,   L-,tt:i:i.r                 :l.i
Lie itpcoa   tgrl  eua      nng  number o - P-t.an inle-oma cII.                          o           f oaohod
an   uls   2960,  19f  cod 1978pr data.-5,90                               97   t.-d-    Ri
Ghlun  nocae  fete Rint   t            roa huod) -  benuel .3oc 1     p,, cc-,   1 so.an  toerff 17 uaups .
or no tIpar- yhoono  lin  births..                                                         ini'nrc bhioa  onre  Iooe  evl--P;er  n ic)  araIodsrd 
uc _t d.t  d-i-dace  (fecen oif  rtcblan196) -97 toal  ur97, dm   ca                               crnertlcoetnii  tn    os  lvlbo    ha       ita
Naslr o  popla)tocl,aebe, udesul)etc  ossonole  ccot t  tae           - ftunaI-Pi -.uequr dIe.  bth plus         . seote  anin-food  reqirements  ishnot
H  sAceT ucylyfi--lodo?treated.u-fs-esto0s orn-tretedlw_utc0ouputsct
W[I'd _   ItlO     taua io  coet-  tisl  -b-                                      tid -.'Nrrs...  I-aho  coott ci IfonItgI   urban soson.Fi 1
o  olduycuaoIeiosnf  .a.c                                                                          -AaxAocnePaei                 Ioe  Lee I.e, re t) -ura
Itf'..   _t ".b .1. , tin ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~~ ~o  nd  nt o  pop L -t                        1 atnud  no)oees"uslaepa"
non    asceccoenda. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ r,,-   1-
c~ss    unate   isoc"Ibo-rt", oa"Iuato-       -toco  ....a-Ietauti_u                                                                                        P     ,i
ana-   loobre of people 'total. oclen, sed rural) served loaseSca~rd I
-  oco.  ocootoet a1Chai  ronoctre popletaca    ooac ,-,tcsi   a   aca   aeIose
- n-acolae   he  allcrco  nd  oeuna, crb  atc"o'na-Esni  dslces__rjo nsDpnmn
cc owner-Icecets's                                                             Ornobee~~~~~~~~~Ifij~,,    1910ba



MEXICO1 - ECONOMIC DEVELOP8ENI DAIS ScEET                                                                   ANNE.X 
1970   1971         ~~~~~          ~~~19717 9$  17             98            92          18       1970-75  i975'80 1978, 6         97      ~ 53   -9  I9_-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                          Constant 1972 Prices   US$ MIiLicc.
Gross Domestic Product           ~~~~~~~36,970 .4  49,5111.8    10,969.6     74,ultj   98,602.9         63,5:,11.9   7,4,260.2   94:1,142.       1.6       1.9        .1      Ii           '       9.
Gat  PrmTem   f  rd                           - 114.1          43.8          81.             27.     1,283.8        355.6         5125.0    6,844.3         -        -9.3       S
Gros  Domes.tic loc-e36,916.3                               48,949.6    11,171.          74,763.8  63,86.7         6,3.           9252 40871                la         Ie0                                    3
Imports (Oolsdin8 NFS)                        3714. 4        5,835.8       4,797.8        6,426,5   9,216.3        10,428.4      13,931.6   18,486.6         1.2       1.5    21. 7        3       1.          ).
tEports (import -p-cty                        2,316.6 6      4,409.4       4,751.3        6,264.0    7,646.7       10,662.2      13,677.7   17,809.0        6.4      15.1
Rnsosro  IsGp                                    73 7.8      1,786.4          36.5          162.5      629.6       -  233.7         233.9        607.7     19.4     -5 4.52,C                       Ij         - 
C_nsaptlo-                                   30,425.4       40,149.0    41,831.4         44,093.2  47,921.7        52,396.2      61,437.4   78,492.2        1.7        3.2                         - 2.   5.  71 4
I-otnstmt                                     7,168.7       10,526.9       9,376.6       10,2933.0  12,774.6       14,409.1    18,181.4   23,813.2          9.0        i.o   1   8        '9.5    1
Gros  Iseeclo Sa-isgt                         6,430.9        9,808 .6     9,340.1       10,670.3  12,165.0        14,648.8    17,928.0   22,395.6           6.5       6.6     1.           "4      [.          2
Cres  Natio-a  Srins                          5,995.3        7,701.9       8,247,3        9,373.3  10,529.1        13,022.6      16,450.6   20,936.2        5.1       6.F9      51        :.       1.          '.
TRADE IN 0008ODS 0Mp AND  FSCuornt Priest, 08$ Millions
IMPORTS, TOTAL                                    2,073.2       8,636.7       7.85330       11,466.4  16,739.9        24.263,2      38,299.6   61,_827.8       20.4       9.9     35.1       30.0   4030           o.
Food                                              '5.9         499.3         473.1          600.7      723.0        1,422.5       1,729.7     2,704,8       46.3      6.7    30.0         31.3      5.3         .
PeerI-a  and Produces                             26.2          269.1        107.5          167.1       259.5         298.4         334.1        434.2      37.8   -14.7    20.7           1.3      1.5    ~
InAhe Goods                                   1,527.5        3,843.4       5,338.1        7,444.8  11,212.2        16,086.1      26,246.4   42,006.2        21.3      8...    37.0        73.6    -o9         69.1
Non-Fat-to  Snoci-e                              013.6       2,022.9       1,934.3        3,248.8   4,481.2         6,456.2       9,969.0   86,682.6        13.7    17.1       32.4       24.8    298.3       767n
ER40ORTS. TOTAL.A                                 1.964,6        2,745.3      6,081.7       11.176,4  15.503,6        24,806.9      37,601.6   59,787.7          6.9    22.5    35,4        1lU."   100.3        IOU.]'
SnIennto Agriculturl Goods                       642.4         711.6         954.2        1,974.37  2,58.            ,7019.0      3,419.7     4,591.4        2.1     284       14.7       32.7     P1.          .
P1trolesm and Products                            60.1           38.4        460.1        1,93.3    3789,3         10,321.7    17,538.9   28,541.2          -0,9     597.4     76.8        2.0    16.0         6 C
Seeted Minerals                                  199.7         244,3         457,6          548,8      952.2       -1,121.8       1,447.3    1,992,0         5.2      9.       22.4        9.7      4.9         3.,
St-nuitnu-n                                      132.1          326.9      1,069.3        2,143,6   2,372.6         2,946,8       4,383.4    6,301.4        19.8    26.1    17 .5          6.7     19.2        iri
Stint Goods                                      133.9           26.6         63.3            -           -              -            -            -         -        -         -          -        --
Noe-PanEtr Snricen                               806,0       1,397.7       3,077.2        4,716.1   6,080,6         7,701.5    11,116.4    18,301.7         11.8    15.3    23.9          41.1    42.1        23.6
TRADE 1N01081                                                     Aserso  72=100
Export Prion Indns                                87.3         165.7         171.3          188.3       243,7         347.6         439.6        434.3      13.6      4.4    23.6
Import Price Index                                81.0         148.1         166.1          178.4       28 2 .7       232.7         274.9        335.7      10.2      6.4    11.4
Term  of Trade                                    96.4         11 2,0        106,4          105 .5      120.2          149.6        159.9        162.4        3.0    -2.0    14.1
VALUEt ADDED By 5OCT80                                      CO.n.ntnt 1972_Prtons. 05  OMilieans                                                                                                    At 7 ofToa
Pri-ay                                        3,644.6        4,139.0       4,483.2        4,347.1    4,920.7        5019.1        5,221.9    5,541.5          2.6      1.6      1.4       19.2    12.7          1.0
Secodary                                      8,139.9       12,416,8      16,948.2       17,428.6  21,9 58.6       24,:066.6     28,909.3    37,069,3        8.8      6,4       9.6       26.4    30.5         38.9
T-ri-cy                                      14,818.7       28,422.7    27,025.5         27,502.8   58,923.5       34,426.2    48,129.1   30,632.1           6.6      3.8       8.0       54.4     '56.6       54.5
Tota  GDP                                    26,653.2       36.938,6    48,386.9         89,263.5  38,802.9        63,5161.9    7'4,26,0.2   94,0429         6.6       5.6      8.1      100.0   100.0        100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLI0 SECTOR PINANCES                                                                                                                                                                   .%         D
Carreni Encnipss                  ~~~~~~~~     ~~5,041.8  9,447.-1    88,492.71    12,196.14   13,7186.7  86,482.8    20,2.       2,8.3          i.         .9     13.6       15.9      2 7 .3     25.6
-oeen  tpnadinnrn                             4,316.6        8,947.2      9108.7        13346.6   10,885,9         12,488.5    15,886.0   1,18.             13.       5.       9.8        11.2    189          89
Psblic Sa-co                                  1,045.2          499.8      1,388.4        L,49,8    2,830.8          3,9946        5382.1    6,365.6    -20.           547   30.2           4.1      3.4        6 .7
inseurtes for Ins..stent                      1,60 2.8         570.8       1,484.6        7,065.0    2,821.7        4,112,8       5,469.8    6,716,7    -18.7          53.6   22.6         4.3       3.8        6.9
leveemet                                      2,263.2        4,845.9       6,381,4        5,489.8    6,842.7        7,512.8       9,698.0   11,9219.6       16.:4       3.7    15.7        6.1      9.9        82. 2
Dnfluit (ont)                                    662.4       4,275.8       2,896.8        3,344.8    3,931.0        3,408.0       4,228.2    5,212.9        43.2       -7.9    6.0         1.6      6.1         5.3
A.LLOCATIONOSF GROONS PUBLIC 000TO0
EXOPENDITURESO                                                                                                                                                                                      55 ", f4lt
E-eegy                                             -         5,369.8       6,676.         7,736,9    6,938.2                                -           -              12.9      -        27.0    31.7          -
Trans.porn and C-sestni...ox                                 1,751.1       1,503.'3       1,537.4    1,6182.2            ---                                 -        -4.2       -         8.0      6.3         -
SocIal We1feen-                                              4,221.9       4,602.0       4,731.8    5,020.2              ---                                 -         4.2       -        21.3    29.6          -
ind-siy                                            -         1,640.0       1,455.6        1,392.4    8,660.3             -                                             5.3       -         8.3      0.7         -
Agric.tltscnsd Rura  Enselop-et-                             1,937.1       1,617.5        1,562.7    1,991.9             -                                             7.5       -        10.0      6.4         -
Geenra  Adlxixe-tios end OnEness.                             3,290.8      3,160.8        5,352.2    5,450.              -                                             19.0      -        16.6    22.8          -
Caimeren-                                                    1,331.7       1,436.9        1,785.2    1,481.7                                                            5 - -   2  -       7.7      7.3         -
T-sism                                                           63.2         75.5           53.9        57.2                                   -5--         -        -.2        -         0.3      8.2         -
Tota                                               -        19,843.9      22,323.7       24.392,5   24.5-03,-4           ---                                 -          7.1      -       108.0   118.1  
SE2.ECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                                        19 -/3   87/7    1976'9
1O0                                               2.82           5.31         6.92           2.78        2.48           2.71        2.94          2.97      4.11      6.75      3.22      $T3$i28')  _3.8   3.2
Imor  Elsiiy1.29                                                0.60         -4.14          5.03        3.55           3.29        1.64          1.14      1.65       0.83     2.66      1.10      2.44      7.47
S8atgital SarOngs IfatO                            0.81          -0.02         0.20           0.31        0.22           0.36        0.20          0.22      0.14      0.29    0.30        0.15    0.16        0.28
VaI.. AddedPn   ale117Prcs
In Pilli...      AE T of Tota         1960-1970          19f60nag
LABOR FORCE 88N0 OUTFIJT PE8 W8RK00               1960   1970       1960      1978       Groeth lati       3289170                                                   aOroni Ratn
Agit-t1--                                       5.6A    3.1      50.3      39.2         -0.6            888.0           93th.0         34.7         33.0               4.4
Sxdtntcy                           ~~~~    ~~~~     ~~~~~~2.1 3.0  19 .6  23.1  3.6      2,468.9         4,134.9         140.6         145.0              5.3
Serstoe                                         3,2    4.9       29.9      3737         4.04           ,2.            ,4.            183.6         142.0              2.3
total                                         00.7   13.8    181.0        100.0          2,0         1,1035.6        2,847.6         101,0         1o0.0.             3.0
0/Anondstg in  re-izmmmy sstit.mie, iepst figonee fee 1980 sae higie-  then   sidi-ted in t6i  Rtbin
_nd  Al eapsti  far 1982 mad 1985 sill mien  -o  bhns  the penjeoted len1.  Thse- hbag *tiill
estintes, the tnhie h-m ant hsem  -nmetodm   Shin stags.
Inslodee  555.
This lee  nie is nasmed by a peek in pbiso  -.ntestes  in 197$.  The p-xjnnitrn-t  fee 19y-82 is eheat 10%.



- 32 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at  orrent pnions)                                   ;?N X I
Preliminary .
Actual                                   Estinates                        Pro-ectlons
1970        1975            1976         1977           1978         1979          1980              1982             1985
SUMHARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                              2,745.4       6,081.7       6,836.3       7,795.1     11,176.4       15,503.6      24,806.9          37,601.7         59.767
Inports (in luding NY')                              3,416.9      8,636.7       8,421.7       0,855.0       11,466.4      16,739.9      24,263.2          38,299.6         61,827.4
Resource Bolunue                                    - 671.5      -2,355.1       -1,585.4       -  59.9     -  290.0       -1,236.3          543.6         -  698.0         -2,347.1
Interest, net -                                     - 307.0      -1,266.5      -1,551.2      -1,811.0      -2,311.9       -3,267.9      -4,070.5         -4,751.8          -6,244 2
Direct  Invest -en     - Incoe                       - 267.5      - 657.5        - 666.7      - 401.4      -  477.4       -587           _ 587.0          -  587.0         -  587.0
Workers' R=itt-ancs                                    122.7         174.6         239.6         251.0         277.0          320.0         320.0            320.0            320.0
Currert Trunsfers, nec                                  55.3         123.4         156.0         168.5         197.9         218.0          239.8            290.2            366.2
Current Account Balance                            -1,069.0      -4,181.1       -3,407.7     -1,852.8      -2,604.4       -4,553.1      -3, 223.5 3/     -4,759.1          -6,932.d
PrOcare Direct Invecstee                               322.9         748.8         626.2         555.9         53J.0         666.5          738.4            928.3          1,300.7
Public Med. and Long Teen Loans, set                   258.6       3,565.8      4,262.5       3,937.3       4,079.0        3,129.1       3,375.6           4,230 .3         5,656.6
(Disbursements)                                    (821.3)    (4,418.6)    (5,417.9        (6,232.3)    (8,343.3)    (10,415.0)    (7,203.0)           (9,617.3)       (15,939.6)
(inpaym nts)                                      (-562.7)      (-032.0)   (-1,155.4)   (-2.295.0)   (-4,264.3)         (7,205.9)   (-3,827.5)        (-5,397.0)       (10,283.3)
Ocher Capital                                          588.7          31.7     -1,801.9      -2,136.2      -1,782.1       -1,046.4         990.4          1,345.0           2,135.0
(Public Short Term)                                (139.6)       (764.7)       (879.5)      (-950.0)   (-1,489.4)         (205.5)       (400.0)          (529.0)          (804.5)
(Ocher Capital, net.)                              (449.1)      (-733.0)   (-2,681.4)   (-1,186.2)    (- 292.7)           (840.9)       (590.4)          (816.0)        (1,330.5)
! Chuge In Reserves (-_ increase)                    -102.1         -165.2         320.9        -504.2        -222.5        -288.9       4,880.9         -1,744.5         -2,239.5
GlANT AND LOAN COHHITMEKTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                                  146.8         310.0          410.0        162.0         494.5          467.0           -
IDA                                                                                               
Other Multil--eral                                     112.4         121.8         171.2         122.0         152.2         268.4
Gover-nevt-                                             78.8         265.2         280.1         224.3        407.9           21.2
Supplier_                                               69.7         158.6         132.3         105.3         133.4           2.0
Banks and Fi--icial Institutio.s                      443.5       3,360.7       4,561.2       6,996.6       8,240.5       11,690.9
Bonds                                                    -           139.9         318.6      1,262.3           36.4         160.0
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Osttanding & Dinbureed                  3,238.0      11,541.7      16,062.6      20,832.2       25,774.1     28,192.3           EXTERNAL DEBT
(end of period)
Istereac en Public Debt                               218.0          850.4      1,096.6       1,326.7       1.823.2        2,849.6                                  or c...31, 1979
R8pa-ent en Public Debt                               475.6          762.6      1,154.9       2,232.2       4,416.2        7,737.2
Other Debt Service (net)                                 -             -             -             -             -             -                                  SHillions      Perce
Tetal Debt Service (nat)                              693.6       1,612.9        2,252.5      3,658.9       6,239.4      10,586.8           Public M S L.T.
Burden on Expert FErnings 2/ (Z)                                                                                                                  Loans
a.  Psblic DebDt  ervice                             24.2           25.8          31.8         45.5          54.5           66.9
b.  Total Debt tSrvice                               24.2           25.8          31.9         45.5          54.5           66.9          IBRD                    1,730.6        6.1
c.  Tuta1 Debt Service end Direct                                                                                                         Other Nultilateral        995.4        3.5
Ineesteent Inee                                33.5          36.3          41.3          50.5          58.6          70.6           G-verntaenn              895.6         3.2
Average Taers xf Public Debt                                                                                                                Sspplier-                 384.0        1.4
a.  Interest as X xf prier year-s                                                                                                         Bends                   2,515.0        8.9
D.0. and B.                                     7.4          10.2           9.1           8.3           8.8          11.1          Other Financlol
b.  A-rtiastin as    f nE prier                                                                                                             lnstituti-ns         21,671.8       76.9
year's 0.0. end D.                             16.3           9.2          10.0          14.5          21.2          30.0
IBRD Expenure                                                                                                                               Trtal                 28,192.3       109.0
a. IE8D D.O. & D. as X nf
Public D.D. end B.                             18.0           9.7           7.9           6.6           5.7           6.1
b.  t7iD Debt Bervice    I  f of
Public Debt Ser-ice                             7.7           7.2           5.9           4.2           2.9           2.1
-  Nut applicable at -ailable
1/ -n1l.des interest en shbrt-term private and public debt
2/ Incl des worker re-ittances
T/ According te preliminry estimates the current aec...t balaxce is one etiLoatd as IS$ 6 billies.
This befig still an estieste, the table bus not bean corrected at this stage.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of October 31, 1980)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                        1,870.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply            90.0        25.0
968      1974  NAFINSA                    Roads                   90.0         8.8
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              47.0        21.6
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports                25.0         3.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        35.7
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              50.0        37.0
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                50.0         5.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply            40.0        23.8
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        39.9
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 42.0        27.5
1462      1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        64.6
1524      1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 50.0         7.9
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry                47.0        15.5
1553      1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture             56.0        46.7
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development       16.5        14.2
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               100.0        32.2
1569      1978  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  200.0          10.8
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              25.0         9.7
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.       60.0        58.3
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                   Highways               120.0       116.2
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                80.0        55.9
1706      1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry               175.0       155.2
1820      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Mining               40.0        40.0
1858      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             160.0       160.0
1881      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       100.0
1891      1980  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  325.0         325.0
1908      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              23.0       23.0
TOTAL                                            4,243.9 1/ 1,554.7
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               660.7
Total now outstanding                            3,583.2
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        91.6                 0.7
Total now held by Bank 1/                        3,582.5
Total Undisbursed                                            1,554.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMfENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as nf Octoher 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                                 US$ Million
Year           Obligor                    Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment    0.8        --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5           --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                      0.9     0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Pey, S.A. 1/         Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --      0.7
1964/66  industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --            2.0    2.0
197n    tMinera del Norte, S.A, 1/        Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.          Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1Q72     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.VT.l/   Pulp and Paper               2/      2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                   15.9      --    15.9
1974     Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  M'exinox, S.A.                   Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper            9.0      2.6   11.6
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals              19.0      --    19.0
1q79     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979     Hlotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                   --       2.3    2.3
1979     Conductores Monterrey,           Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable            18.0      --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard               25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Class                 114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                  110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper              59.5      --    59.5
Total Gross Commitments                                  503.3    31.9  535.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                             371.7    22.1  393.8
Total Commitments Now Hleld hy IrC                       131.6      9.8  141.4
Total I!ndishursed (including participants)              317.5       __  317.5
1/   Investnents xihich have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeeTned or renaid.
2/  TCs825 r 0o0.
3/ Cross cormnitnent tncludin.) -unonints sal-i to participrants



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed and the physical targets of the
project have been achieved. In December 1979, the Executive
Directors agreed to amend the Project Description to include
new works which would serve the same objective of increasing
bulk water supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area and
utilize a forecast loan surplus (R79-307). However, the
authorities are now reconsidering the need for some of the
works included in the new Project Description. During a recent
programming discussion, the Government has indicated its
intention to seek partial cancellation of the loan, and no
extension of the closing date is envisaged.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although behind schedule and still moving slowly, this project
is proceeding satisfactorily. Project components that have
been completed are achieving higher rates of utilization than
envisaged at time of appraisal because of greatly increased air
traffic in Mexico. Three of the six project airports are
complete. One more will be complete by the end of this year.
The last two will be finished next year.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to inade-
quate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is underway
to adjust for these delays. The closing date has been extended
accordingly.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be complete in March 198, and no major problems
are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent above the
original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment and civil
works costs.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, and works are now progressing satisfactorily.
This is the result of several positive measures taken by the
Mexican authorities to accelerate project execution, including
the preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the special project unit in
charge of project execution.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabiliza-
tion period) was inadequate.  Works are now being executed
according to a revised investment plan which has been agreed
upon with the Bank. US$15.5 million of the undisbursed balance
has been committed and the remainder will be committed in early
1981. Due to initial delays the project is expected to be
completed by mid-1981, about two-and-a-half years behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is slightly behind schedule
due to shortages of building materials in the area now over-
come. An outline for the ecological and environmental study is
being reviewed in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic
as well as North American tourism and the economic study of
tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory,
although difficulties in internal coordination have caused
disbursements to lag behind schedule. Recent communications
with FONATUR indicate that bottlenecks are being eliminated.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress of commitments is satisfactory and disbursements should
be completed before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. Over 80 percent of the loan
have been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component is having better than expected
results. Satisfactory progress has been obtained for the
training centers, but delays still remain in the implementation
of the productive credits, industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. Steps to speed implementation in
these areas have been recently discussed with the Government.
The possibility of reallocating funds to the shelter-related
components is being contemplated.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. Over 97 percent of the loan has been committed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed soon, some 18 months ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
A number of livestock and irrigation subprojects have been
approved by the Bank, and the Government is accelerating
preparation and presentation of the balance of the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's management
is considering steps to improve implementation.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Plans and bidding documents for the Sinaloa component is well
underway. Despite initial delays, the Fuerte program is
now gaining momentum.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$92.1 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$26.8 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Due to sharp fluctuations in the cost of capital in Mexico,
the Borrower has asked the Bank to consider an interest rate
mechanism based on a 12-month average cost of capital similar
to that used in Ln. 1881.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan:
Approved by the Executive Directors on October 14, 1980 and
not yet signed.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan:
Approved by the Executive Directors November 4, 1980 and
not yet signed.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan:
Approved by the Executive Directors on December 16, 1980
>nd not yet signed.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about 2 years
(b) Project prepared by: SARH
(c) First preparation mission: April 1979
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: January 1980
(e) Negotiations completed: December 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: April 30, 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
Intensive supervision is planned.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Small-scale irrigation sub-projects financed under the project
would have an investment cost not greater than $10,000 per
beneficiary family (para 72);
(b) FICAR (in the future to be renamed FICART) and FIRA would rediscount
loans under the same terms and conditions that are applied to other
agricultural credit programs in Mexico financed by the Bank (para 75);
(c) Minimum interest rates for medium-term loans would range from
14 percent for loans to low-income farmers borrowing for the first
time to 21 percent for the higher income farmers. These rates would
be adjusted annually to reflect changes in the average cost of
borrowed funds to MIexican banks (para. 75);
(d) Short-term credit interest rates would be no less than 15.5 percent
for group borrowers and not less than 19 percent for others. These
rates would be reviewed annually with the Bank (para. 75);
(e) Contracts for civil works would be grouped into packages of at
least US$350,000 and procured under local competitive bidding.
Smaller contracts would account for no more than 40 percent
of civil works and could be procured under the Government's
ordinary procedures (para 81); and
(f) Contracts for purchase of materials and equipment would be
grouped where feasible into packages of at least $350,000 and
procured through international competitive bidding. Smaller
contracts could be procured through the Government's ordinary
procedures (para 82).



- 42                                                    ANNEX IV
MEXICO
RAINFED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
District Level Organization
Executive Committee
TecnChiomef of District                                                  Credit Committee
| Planning and   L                          esidence for|
Evalustiorl                            Infrastructure
Admnisratveesidence for|
Off ice ~ ~ ~                    OHO R       |
Offica of                    Office of                tions and Extenon                    ffice of
Agriculture                   Livestock                tiCoordination
Special Programs 
Coordinator_
Inforrnation_
Officer
UNIT                                           UNIT
ZONE                 ZONEZOEON
World Bank-21905



IBRD 14946
164-                '00, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P'9APRIL 1Q80
M E XI CO:
RAIfE) AGIUTURALEVEOWNPOJC
<600AM00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~06 DS"7
~~Z1    '>       r                                                                 2000 1.~TTs  mI"IFTl9008
~~~~~>      > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~MA  PHELS
FA~~~~~~~~ T ,                                                                                                                         TOLL kOADS,
10.
C. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~C



