OFFICIIL       LOAN NUMBER 1945 ME
DOCUMENTS
Second Project Agreement
(Rainfed Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL, S.A.
Dated                                , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1945 ME
SECOND PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated /, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL, S.A. (hereinafter
called Banrural).
WHEREAS, by the Ficar Trust Agreement, Banrural has been
entrusted by the Guarantor with the Fideicomiso para cr&dito
en areas de riego for the purpose, inter alia, of financing
agricultural and livestock development in Mexico;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, Banrural and the Borrower have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the B.nk has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
eighty million dollars ($280,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
Banrural agree to undertake certain obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Banrural, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "beneficiary" means a person or a group of persons,
or an entity having juridical capacity under the laws of the
Guarantor to enter into contractual arrangements and to which
a Banrural Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan; the term
"beneficiary" includes the following Categories:


﻿- 2 -
(i) Category 1 beneficiary - means an individual
beneficiary whose main source of income is derived
from farming, whose farm is located in the Project
Area, and whose annual net family income does not
exceed 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage for
the region where he is located, or a group of such
beneficiaries;
(ii) Category 2 beneficiary - means an individual
beneficiary whose main source of income is derived
from farming, whose farm is located in the Project
Area and whose annual net family income exceeds
1,000 times, but it is less than 1,500 times, the
daily minimum rural wage for the region where he
is located, or a group of such beneficiaries;
(iii) Category 3 beneficiary - means an individual
beneficiary resident in the Project Area and not
included in Categories 1 and 2 above, whose annual
net family income does not exceed 2,000 times the
daily minimum rural wage for the region where he
is located, or a group of such beneficiaries; and
(iv) Category 4 beneficiary - means all other
beneficiaries resident in the Project Area; and
(b)  "net family income" means the net income of the family
of an individual beneficiary calculated in accordance with
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of Banrural
Section 2.01. (a) Banrural shall carry out Part C (2) of
the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
agricultural, administrative and financial policies and practices
under the management and supervision of FICAR, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all funds and other
resources which shall be required by FICAR to meet its operating
expenses.
(b) Banrural shall, for the purpose of carrying out Part C
(2) of the Project, make or cause to be made available, out of


﻿-3-
FICAR's resources or otherwise, credit on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, as required in order to achieve fully
and promptly the benefits of Part C (2) of the Project.
(c) Banrural shall exercise its rights in relation to
each sub-loan in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Bank, Banrural and FICAR.
Section 2.02. (a) Banrural shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, pro-
viding, inter alia: (i) for' the transfer from the Borrower to
Banrural of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan required by
it for the purpose of carrying out Part C (2) of the Project;
and (ii) for the utilization by Banrural, in FICAR's program for
agricultural development, of the proceeds of repayment of short-
term and medium-term sub-loans under Part C (2) of the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Banrural shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 2.03. (a) Banrural shall cause FICAR to carry
out its operations in accordance with sound agricultural,
administrative and financial policies and practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
(b) The organization of FICAR and the operational policies
of Banrural and FICAR in respect of Part C (2) of the Project
shall be satisfactory to the Bank and such policies shall include
such organization, procurement and credit policies as are set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and such other policies as
may be agreed to by the Bank and Banrural, and Banrural shall
ensure that such organization, procurement and credit policies
are, to the extent necessary, duly and promptly implemented and
carried out to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) Banrural shall cause the proceeds of the
Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Loan Agreement to expenditures for Part C (2)
of the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Banrural shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for Part C (2) of the Project to be used exclusively in
carrying out such Part.


﻿Section 2.05. Banrural shall apply to the Bank for approval
of any medium-term sub-loan to be made under Part C (2) of the
Project in excess of the equivalent of eight hundred thousand
dollars ($800,000) and of any short-term sub-loan to be made under
such Part of the Project in excess of the equivalent of four
hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) or such other amount or
amounts as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. When
applying to the Bank for such approval, Banrural shall furnish to
the Bank a description of the Sub-project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the proposed sub-loan and such technical, economic
and financial data regarding such Sub-project as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Section 2.06. Banrural shall cause the Banrural Banks:
(a) to establish and maintain accounts to record its
receipts and payments for or in connection with Part C (2) of
the Project, including: (i) amounts received from and payments
made to FICAR; and (ii) amounts disbursed to and received from
beneficiaries; and
(b) to enable the Bank's accradited representatives to
examine such accounts.
Section 2.07. (a) Banrural shall: (i) maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use
thereof, to record the progress of Part C (2) of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of FICAR and, in respect of Part C (2) of
the Project, of Banrural; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the sites, farms, ranches, and other works and
facilities financed out of credit made available under Part C (2)
of the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan, Part C (2) of the Project, the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to Banrural, the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of FICAR and, in respect of Part C (2) of the Project, the
operations of Banrural.
(b) Without prejudice to its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, Banrural shall measure and evaluate the


﻿- 5 -
impact and results of Part C (2) of the project on the basis of
the records it shall keep or cause to be kept for the purpose for
selected subprojects included in the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) The Bank and Banrural shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, the Bank and Banrural shall from time to time, at
the request of either of them, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance by Banrural of its
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of FICAR, the operations of Banrural in
respect of Part C (2) of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Banrural shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by
Banrural of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banrural, in its capacity as Trustee of FICAR,
shall: (i) have an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank made
of the accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) of
FICAR, for each calendar year, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent and qualified
auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of FICAR and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Banrural hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
h4ve designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banrural:
Banco Nacional de Credito Rural, S.A.
Baja California 261
Mexico 11, D.
M6xico
Cable address:                        Telex:
Banrural
Mexico D.F.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Banrural may be taken or executed by
its Director General or such other person or persons as the
Director General shall designate in writing, and Banrural shall


﻿-7-
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE CREDITO RURAL
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Organization, Credit and
Procurement Policies
I.   Medium-term sub-loans
A.   General
1.   FICAR will rediscount or otherwise finance medium-term
sub-loans made by the Banrural Banks. FICAR's determination of
eligibility for such financing will be based primarily upon the
appraisal as to technical feasibility and satisfactory return on
investments. Each medium-term sub-loan will be appraised and
approved by qualified technicians, of or acceptable to FICAR,
before such medium-term sub-loan is made. Appraisals of Sub-
projects will be reviewed from time to time by FICAR in order to
determine that such appraisals show the technical, economic and
financial viability of the Sub-projects and that the appraisals
are in compliance with FICAR's operating procedures and standards.
The Banrural Banks will prepare, at the time of the approval of
each medium-term sub-loan, a plan for supervising the carrying
out of the Sub-project and will keep a record of supervision
activities for each Sub-project.
B.   Procurement Policies
2.   FICAR will require beneficiaries to obtain price quotations
for goods or works to be financed under a medium-term sub-loan
from several local suppliers and contractors, whenever
practicable.
C.   Credit Policies
3.   Each Banrural Bank will be required to provide from its own
resources not less than 10% of the total amount of medium-term
sub-loans it makes. The balance will be rediscounted or otherwise
financed by FICAR. For this purpose, FICAR will make available to
each Banrural Bank, promptly as needed, amounts sufficient to
cover such balances. The financing granted by FICAR will have the
same repayments of principal as the medium-term sub-loans
financed, and if such financing is granted through rediscounting,
such rediscounting will be evidenced by negotiable instruments
representing the medium-term sub-loan to be rediscounted signed by
the beneficiaries.


﻿-9-
4.   In  rediscounting  or otherwise financing medium-term     sub-
loans, the following rules will be applied:
Minimum
beneficiary                              Minimum
contribution     Maximum                  yearly
(percentage   percentage                interest
of cost of      of sub-      Yearly       rates
Beneficiary       project      loan re-    rediscount    to benefi-
category       financed)     discounted    rates*       ciaries
(i) Category 1
(a) those      5%           90%          10.5%        14.0%
who
receive
insti-
tutional
credit
for the
first
time.
(b) others     5%           90%          11.75%       15.5%
(2) Category 2     10%           80%          13.5%        17.0%
(3) Category 3     20%           70%          14.25%       18.0%
(4) Category 4     20%           70%          19.0%        21.0%
5.   The terms and conditions contained in this Schedule shall
not be different from those that the Guarantor and the Bank shall
agree from time to time for other agricultural programs in Mexico
to benefit farmers with socio-ecoaomic conditions similar to those
of the beneficiaries under the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of any other loan made by the Bank.
6.   No medium-term sub-loan will be made to an individual
beneficiary for on-farm investment if the amount of the proposed
medium-term sub-loan together with the aggregate principal amount
outstanding of sub-loans made for on-farm investment to such
beneficiary and financed by FICAR exceeds 5,000,000 pesos or such
other amount as may be agreed between the Bank and Banrural.     In
case the beneficiary is a group of farmers, such amount will be
multiplied by the number of members of such group.
*    Provided, however, that FICAR may lower the yearly rediscount
rates shown in the table whenever FICAR rediscounts less than
the maximum percentage of a medium-term sub-loan.


﻿- 10 -
7.   Lending terms and grace periods will be as set forth in
technical and financial plans. Repayments of principal of medium-
term sub-loans will range from 2 to 15 years and will include
grace periods of 1 to 3 years; provided that, in exceptional cases
and with the prior agreement of the Bank, repayment of principal
may extend to 20 years and the grace period may extend to 5 years.
8.   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Banrural shall,
once a year, adjust the rates of interest payable on medium-term
sub-loans made after the date of adjustment to reflect the change
in the average of the prevailing interest zates in effect during
the preceding 12-month period compared to the average of the
prevailing interest rates for the 12 months preceding the previous
adjustment. For the purpose of this paragraph "prevailing interest
rate" means an annual rate cf interest which reflects the average
costs of borrowed funds to financial departments of multipurpose
banks operating in Mexico as calculated monthly by Banxico.
II. Short-term sub-loans
A.   General
9.   FICAR will rediscount or otherwise finance short-term sub-
loans made by the Banrural Banks.    The appraisals and approvals
of Sub-projects and their supervision will be made in accordance
with the operating procedures and standards applied by FICAR, the
Banrural Banks and SARH for such type of financing in the Project
Area.
B.   Credit Policies
10. In rediscounting or otherwise financing short-term sub-loans,
the annual interest rate charged to each beneficiary shall not be
less than fifteen and one-half (15-1/2%) percent for a sub-loan
made to a group of farmers, and shall not be less than nineteen
(19%) percent for a sub-loan made to an individual farmer.
11. Not less than once every twelve months, Banrural and the
Bank shall review the annual rates of interest to be payable on
short-term sub-loans for the ensuing twelve month period with a
view to arriving at a mutually acceptable annual rate.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Calculation of Net Family Income
The net family income will be calculated by adding the total
income of all members of a family from their farm, or their share
in the income of a farm cultivated collectively, and any other
income from any outside source, whenever information about such
income can be obtained. In this respect, income from farming
will be calculated as follows: the amount of sales of produce,
adjusted for the value of changes in the stock of unsold produce,
less costs of all inputs (seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, fuel,
water, etc.), hired labour, hired machinery, crop insurance,
interest on short- and long-term loans, administration and
depreciation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  1-_dayof X        AA., 198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


