LOAN NUMBER 1945 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Rainfed Agricultural Development Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1945 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               1981, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL EANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to two hundred eighty million
dollars ($280,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor, acting through SARH, shall carry
out Parts A, D and E of the Project described in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement and, acting through SARH and SAHOP, as the case
may be, shall carry out Part B of such Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, agricul-
tural, economic, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes:
(a) to cause Banxico and Banrural, respectively, to carry
out Parts C (1) and (2) of the Project with due di'.igence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural, industrial,
administrative and financial policies and practices, all in
accordance with the provisions of the First Project Agreement and
the Second Project Agreement;
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that
the funds available to Banxico or to Banrural for purposes of
Parts C (1) and (2) of the Project will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for carrying out Parts C (1) and
(2) of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide Banxico or Banrural or cause Banxico or
Banrural to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures;
(c) to pay into the Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y
Garantla para Crditos Agropecuarios, such amounts as shall be
required by Banxico to carry out Part C (1) of the Project; and
(d) with regard to the portion of the Loan allocated to
carry out Parts C (1) and (2) of the Project, to pay to the


﻿-3-
Borrower such amounts as the Borrower shall require: (i) to repay
to the Bank such portion of the Loan; and (ii) to pay to the Bank
any interest and other charges due thereon.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall make contractual arrange-
ments with the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, providing,
inter alia, (a) for the transfer from the Borrower to the
Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of carrying
out Parts A, B, D and E  of the Project, and (b) for the transfer
by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower
shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal,
interest and other charges on the Loan.   Except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not change or fail to
enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 3.04. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan othe than those under
Part C of the Project shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall:
(a) at the Bank's request, furnish to the Bank the plans,
specifications, contract documents and work schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(b) (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including its cost), the
results achieved by the Project, to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of such proceeds and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds; and
(c) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor
and the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the


﻿-4-
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
benefits and on the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the the
Guarantor to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall take such measures as
shall be necessary or advisable to ensure that the Beneficiaries
of the Project will be provided with such credit, as and when
required, to utilize adequately the facilities and services
included in the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, any
irrigation Sub-project shall have an average investment cost
not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 per family.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security- from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,


﻿-5-
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisionb, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalt-nt lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political sub-
divisions, or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any
agency or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political
subdivision of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest
of or for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision
of the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower or Banxico or Banrural of its
respective obligations contained in the Loan Agreement, the
First Project Agreement or the Second Project Agreement and will
take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower or Banrural and Banxico, as
the case may be, to perform such obligations.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall take all action which
shall be necessary or advisable:
(a) upon the recommendation of FONDO or FICAR to that
effect, to cause such import permits as shall be needed for the


﻿-6-
importation of goods required to carry out the Project to be
issued as promptly as possible, in compliance with the
legislation and administrative procedures of the Guarantor; and
(b) to enable Banxico and Banrural, as the case may be, to
apply or cause to be applied the policies set forth in Schedule 1
to the First Project Agreement and Schedule 1 to the Second
Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Guarantor shall, in accordance with its
laws, appoint independent and qualified auditors for the purposes
of Sections 2.09 of the Project Agreements.
S ection 4.05. The Guarantor shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof;
(b) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section verified in accordance with the Guarantor's ordinary
procedures;
(c) annually, furnish to the Bank a summary statement of
such accounts; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other pertinent information
concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request
from time to time.
Section 4.06. The Guarantor shall cause the facilities
included in the Project to be operated, maintained and repaired
in accordance with sound engineering, technical, financial and
administrative practices.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Direcci6n General de Credito Pfblico
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito PG5blico
Moneda 4
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:                       Telex:
HDA-01777
HDA-01313
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Guarantor's National
Plan for Assistance to Rainfed Areas (PLANAT), an agricultural
development program for Mexico's rainfed areas. The Project's main
objective is to increase agricultural production in nine of the
Guarantor's 124 rainfed districts through the implementation of
a development program in each of the nine districts over a five
year period. In addition, the Project is to assist the Guarantor's
training, extension and research activities aimed at developing
subsequent phases of such program in other rainfed districts.
The Project consists of the following:
I.   District Level (within the Project Area)
Part A:   Technical Services
(1) Provision of extension services and facilities for the
promotion of improved cultivation and animal husbandry
methods.
(2) Carrying out of production systems research and on-farm
testing of new technologies.
(3) Carrying out of soil and water conservation programs,
including various types of terraces, contour furrows and
small water storage reservoirs, covering approximately
65,000 ha.
(4) Carrying out of forestry programs covering approximately
13,400 ha.
Part B:   Infrastructure
Carrying out of rural works programs, including the construc-
tion or improvement of approximately 2,880 km of farm to market
roads, approximately 7,000 ha of small irrigation schemes, and
drainage works covering approximately 30,000 ha.
Part C:   Credit
(1) Provision by Banxico of credit to beneficiaries.


﻿-9-
(2) Provision by Banrural of credit to beneficiaries.
II. National Level (outside the Project Area)
Part D:   Training
Post graduate study and training in rainfed agriculture
related matters.
Part E:   Extension and Research
Establishment and operation of regional centers for SARH's
extension services and research.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Guarantor shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Guarantor and the Bank shall agree; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Guarantor shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Goods shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices.
4.   Account shall be taken of the availability of spare parts
and services for imported goods.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of domestically
manufactured or supplied goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection
with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods


﻿- 11 -
shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the bids;
and (iii) the cost to the Guarantor of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Guarantor and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to   determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if,
as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is
the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be


﻿- 12 -
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which, as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Not less than 60% of the civil works under the Project shall
be performed pursuant to contracts of a value not less than
$350,000 and awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guarantor's ordinary procurement procedures.
2.   Contracts for civil works not included in paragraph 1 of this
Part may be awarded on the basis of price quotations from not less
than three independent contractors in Mexico or carried out by
force account.
3.   Contracts for good-.: may be awarded on the basis of the
Guarantor's ordinary procurement procedures; provided, however,
that, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, such contracts - other
than those for items for on-farm development financed in part by
credit under Part C of the Project - shall not individually exceed
$350,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods not covered by the
provisions of Part C of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request in


﻿- 13 -
consultation with the Guarantor. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Bank of the the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    "     day of J,Aw, 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


