DOCUAMENTS    LOAN NUMBER 1945 ME
Loan Agreement
(Rainfed Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated                                , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1945 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      d>sede 1L-, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Banxico" means Banco de Mexico, S.A;
(b) "Banrural" means Banco Nacional de Credito Rural, S.A.
and a "Banrural Bank" means a bank of Banco Nacional de Credito
Rural S.A.'s system;
(c) "Project Agreements" means the agreement between the
Bank and Banxico (hereinafter called the First Project Agreement)
and the agreement between the Bank and Banrural (hereinafter
called the Second Project Agreement), both of even date herewith,
as such agreements may be amended from time to time; and the terms
"First Project Agreement" and "Second Project Agreement" include
all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto;
(d) "SARR" means the Secretarfa de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidr5ulicos of the Guarantor;
(e) 'SAHOP" means the Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos
y Obras Pfiblicas of the Guarantor;


﻿- 2 -
(f) "Fondo Law" means the law of the Guarantor published in
the Diario Oficial of December 31, 1954, creating the Fondo de
Garantla y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderfa y Avicultura,
and includes its Reglamento of May 6, 1955;
(g) "Fondo Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fidei-
comiso dated June 24, 1955, between United Mexican States and
Banxico whereby the Fondo de Garantla y Fomento para la Agricul-
tura, Ganaderfa y Avicultura is entrusted to Banxico as trustee
pursuant to the Fondo Law;
(h) "FONDO" means the technical and administrative organi-
zation, resources, staff and facilities used or to be used by
Banxico to operate the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura, the Special Trust Fund and
the Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y Garantla para Creditos
Agropecuarios;
(i) "Special Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de
Fideicomiso dated August 26, 1965, between United Mexican States
and Banxico; and "Special Trust Fund" means the Fondo Especial
para Financiamientos Agropecuarios established by the Special
Trust Agreement;
(j) Fondo Especial de Asistencia Tecnica y Garantia para
Creditos Agropecuarios means the fund for technical assistance
and guarantee for agricultural credits entrusted to Banxico by a
trust agreement between United Mexican States and Banxico dated
October 30, 1972;
(k) "Participating Bank" means any public credit institution
approved by the Bank and any other private credit institution
approved by Banxico to participate in the carrying out of Part C
(1) of the Project in accordance with Schedule 1 to the First
Project Agreement;
(1) "Ficar Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fidei-
comiso dated September 26, 1975, between United Mexican States
and Banrural, as amended by the Convenio Modificatorio dated
December 14, 1977, whereby the Fideicomiso para credito en areas
de riego is entrusted to Banrural as trustee;
(m) "FICAR" means the technical and administrative organi-
zation, resources, staff and facilities used or to be used by
Banrural to operate the    Fideicomiso para credito en areas de
riego;


﻿- 3 -
(n) "short-term sub-loan" means a loan made with a maturity
of not more than 24 months made or proposed to be made by a
Banrural Bank or a Participating Bank to a beneficiary for a
Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreements and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and "medium-term sub-loan" means a loan with a maturity of
more than 24 months made or proposed to be made by a Banrural Bank
or a Participating Bank to a beneficiary for a Sub-project in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreements and to
be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(o) "Sub-project" means an on-farm investment for crop,
livestock or forestry production to be carried out by a benefi-
ciary (as this term is variously defined in Sections 1.01 (a)
of the Project Agreements) and to be financed in part by means
of a short-term sub-loan or a medium-term sub-loan;
(p) "peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor; and
(q) "Project Area" means the territories of the Guarantor's
rainfed districts of Cardenas, Chilpancingo, Cholula, Coat-
zacoalcos, Jalapa, Martinez de la Torre, Morelia, Villahermosa and
Zapopan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent    to two hundred
eighty million dollars ($280,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.


﻿Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the
Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Project Agreements to expenditures on the
Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments with the Guarantor, Banxico and Banrural, satisfactory to
the Bank, providing for such matters as are set forth in Section
3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement, in Section 2.02 of the First
Project Agreement and in Section 2.02 of the Second Project
Agreement, respectively, and except as the Bank may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any
provision of such arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.


﻿-5 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effe-Ct,
at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition with respect to the Loan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)  (i) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of Banxico
under the First Project Agreement; or
(ii) a change shall have been made in the Fondo Law or
the Fondo Trust Agreement or the Special Trust
Agreement which shall adversely and materially
affect the carrying out or operation of Part C (1)
of the Project;
provided, however, that the suspension of the right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be limited to that portion
of the Loan which has been allocated to Category 5 of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under
Part C (1) of the Project; or
(b) (i) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of Banrural
under the Second Project Agreement; or


﻿-6-
(ii) a change shall have been made in the Ficar Trust
Agreement which shall adversely and materially
affect the carrying out or operation of Part
C (2) of the Project;
provided, however, that the suspension of the right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be limited to that portion
of the Loan which has been allocated to Category (5) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under
Part C (2) of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) (i) and (b) (i) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Guarantor, the Borrower, and Banxico or to the
Guarantor, the Borrower and Banrural, as the case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) or paragraph
(b) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the First Project Agreement and the Second Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, Banxico and Banrural, respectively,
and are legally binding upon Banxico and Banrural in accordance
with their terms;
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 of
this Agreement and Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement and
Sections 2.02 of the Project Agreements have been executed and
delivered on behalf of the parties thereto and are legally binding
on them; and


﻿-7-
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivi-
sions or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision
or by Banxico or by Banrural or pursuant to the Fondo Law, the
Fondo Trust Agreement, or the Special Trust Agreement, the Ficar
Trust Agreement, or otherwise to be performed or given in order
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower, Banxico and Banrural to perform all of the respective
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower, Banxico and
Banrural in the Loan Agreement, the First Project Agreement and
the Second Project Agreement contained, together with all neces-
sary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and
validly performed or given and no other such acts,   consents and
approvals are required to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 6.02. The date    a-           , is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico


﻿-8-
Cable address:                 Telex:
NAFIN                          NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                    Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in th.ir respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  58,500,000        45%
(2) Equipment and Vehicles       16,500,000        45%
(3) Salaries and Operating        58,000,000       45%
Expenses
(4) Training and                 10,000,000        45%
Studies
(5) Credit
(a) Medium                72,000,000          45%
Term
(b) Short Term            36,000,000          45%
(6) Unallocated                 29,000,000
TOTAL          280,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to thCat end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 10 -
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
(a) for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $6,000,000 on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1980;
(b) by FONDO to any Participating Bank and FICAR to any
Banrural Bank to finance any medium-term sub-loan which shall
exceed the equivalent of eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000)
or such other amount as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower unless such sub-loan shall have been approved by the
Bank;
(c) by FONDO to any Participating Bank and by FICAR to any
Banrural Bank to finance any short-term sub-loan which shall
bear interest at an annual rate not mutually acceptable to the
Bank and Banxico or the Bank and Banrural, as the case may be, or
which shall exceed the equivalent of four hundred thousand dollars
($400,000) or such other amount as shall be agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower unless such sub-loan shall have been
approved by the Bank; and
(d) for amounts retained for the guarantee of civil works
contracts under the Project.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insofficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank and the
Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditure; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expend-
itures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 11 -
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragrah 4 above, except as
the Bank may otherwise agree, no reallocation shall be made from
Category 5 (b) to any other Category.
6.    The Bank shall disburse for expenditures under each Category
at the percentage set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above
through July 31, 1984, and thereafter at a percentage of
expenditures to result in a disbursement percentage of thirty-five
percent (35%) of all expenditures under each Category.
7.    If, after consultation with the Borrower, the Bank shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonably opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning August 1, 1984
through   August 1, 1995                    11,665,000
On February 1, 1996                              11,705,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                              3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                      8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                      9.25%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall read as follows:
"The term 'Project' means the project or projects
or program or programs for which the Loan is granted,
as described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement
and as the description thereof shall be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Guarantor, the
Bank, the Borrower, Banxico and Banrural."
(b) Section 6.06 shall read as follows:
"Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or
Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all
the provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement and the Project Agreements shall continue
in full force and effect except as in this Article
specifically provided."
(c) Section 10.01 shall read as follows:
"Enforceability. The rights and obligations of the
Bank, the Borrower, the Guarantor, Banxico and Banrural
under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement,
the First Project Agreement and the Second Project
Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance
with their terms notwithstanding the laws of any State,
or political subdivision thereof, to the contrary.
Neither the Bank nor the Borrower nor the Guarantor
nor Banxico nor Banrural shall be entitled in any
proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that
any provision of these General Conditions or of the Loan
Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement or the First
Project Agreement or the Second Project Agreement is
invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank."


﻿- 15 -
(d) Section 10.02 shall read as follows:
"Obligations of the Guarantor. The obligations of the
Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement shall not be
discharged except by performance and then only to the
extent of such performance. Such obligations shall not
be subject to any prior notice to, demand upon or action
against the Borrower or Banxico or Banrural or to any
prior notice to or demand upon the Guarantor with regard
to any default by the Borrower or Banxico or Banrural,
and shall not be impaired by any of the following: any
extension of time, forbearance or concession given to
the Borrower or Banxico or Banrural; any assertion of,
or failure to assert, or delay in asserting, any right,
power or remedy against the Borrower or Banxico or
Banrural or in respect of any security for the Loan; any
modification or amplification of the provisions of the
Loan Agreement or the First Project Agreement or the
Second Project Agreement contemplated by the terms
thereof; any failure of the Borrower or Banxico or
Banrural to comply with any requirement of any law of
the Guarantor."
(e) Section 10.03 shall read as follows:
"Failure to Exercise Rights. No delay in exercising,
or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy
accruing to any party under the Loan Agreement or
Guarantee Agreement or Project Agreements upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or
be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence
in such default; nor shall any action of such party in
respect of such default, or any acquiescence by it in
any default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent
default."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of IA    , 198 /
FOR SECRETARY


