Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15393
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2558-DO)
FEBRUARY 29, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (DR$)
US$1.00 = DR$3.00 (January 1985)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Project Completion Note
Dominican Republic
Vocational Trainina Pro iect (Loan 2558-DO)
1.    This is a Project Completion Note for the Vocational Training Project (Loan 2558-
DO). The project was terminated in November 1986, after failing to become effective.
2.    Background. The project was based principally on a study of vocational training
completed in February 1984 (Report 5158-DO) and preparation and appraisal completed
by October 1984. It also drew on a vocational component of an earlier education project,
Second Education Project (Loan 1142-DO of 1975), which helped establish the National
Vocational Training Institute (INFOTEP). The project was appraised in October 1984,
negotiated in April 1985, and approved by the Board in May 1985. Legal documents
were signed in July 1985. The loan was terminated by the Bank in November 1986, after
failure to obtain congressional approval of the project -- a national requirement for all
externally-assisted projects before a loan can become effective.
3.    Objectives.  As designed, the project aimed to help redress problems of low
productivity and unemployment by strengthening vocational training. Specifically, the
project was intended to: (a) build INFOTEP's capacity to coordinate and guide
vocational training; and (b) improve the quality and expand the provision of relevant,
vocational training.
4.    Description.  The project comprised two main components, the INFOTEP
component and the training component. The INFOTEP component provided technical
assistance to develop INFOTEP planning capacity, a training supervision, standards and
certification system, and course content. The training component provided construction,
equipment and technical assistance to improve and expand training provided by INFOTEP
as well as other training institutions. The component included provision of instructor
training, trainee follow-up and placement services, pre-and in-service training for skilled
and unskilled workers, and development of training advisory services to be provided
through INFOTEP to enterprises. The total project cost estimate was US$8.4 million; the
loan amount was US$5.8 million.
5.    Anticipated Benefits and Risks. The expected benefits, in line with the project
objectives and description, were to derive from the institutional strengthening of
INFOTEP. In addition, nearly 1,000 instructors, and an additional 6,300 pre-and in-
service workers and some 1,800 supervisors in industry were expected to benefit directly
from expanded and improved training and support services. No significant risks related to
the technical implementation of the project were identified. A risk that INFOTEP would
not be ready to coordinate vocational training effectively and provide advisory services to
enterprises was raised. This risk was to be minimized by providing appropriate technical
assistance and increasing INFOTEP's financing for other qualified training providers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



2
6.    Effectiveness Delays and Termination. The project was in an advanced stage of
preparation at the time of signing. Implementation was initiated immediately thereafter.
Bid documents for works and equipment, terms-of-reference for technical assistance, and
training proposals were all completed, reviewed, and cleared by the Bank.  The
construction of INFOTEP facilities was also initiated. The only technical condition of
effectiveness, signing of a financing agreement between the Government and INFOTEP,
was fulfilled within 90 days after loan signing. The Bank emphasized to the Borrower that
disbursements could not be made until statutory loan effectiveness. This required the
President to submit a bill to Congress for approval of the loan, followed by the submission
of a favorable legal opinion by the Borrower.
7.    Despite several assurances from project authorities to the contrary, no progress
was made toward effectiveness of the loan during late 1985 or early 1986. An initial
three-month extension of the effectiveness date, to February 1986, was requested and
granted.  A second extension was granted to May 16, 1986, just prior to national
elections. A third extension, to February 1987, was requested, but the Bank agreed to
extend only until November 11, 1986, representing 18 months since Board approval.
8.    In October 1986, a Bank mission met with the newly-elected President and Cabinet
members in an attempt to resolve difficulties associated with the delayed effectiveness of
the project. Despite apparent technical readiness and sectoral support for the project, the
Bank was unable to secure support of the new Administration for the project. The new
President did not give priority to external borrowing for social sector operations at the
time.
9.    Lessons Learned. During preparation, this project had received strong support
from the Government. The new Administration, however, did not endorse the operation.
This outcome suggests the importance of ensuring broad support for a Bank operation
among all stakeholders, both inside and outside the current Government.



3
ANNEX
BASIC INFORMATION
Project:                 Dominican Republic Vocational Education Project
Estimated Project Cost:  US$8.5 million
Loan Amount:             US$5.8 million
Borrower:                The Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency:     INFOTEP
Beneficiaries:           Employed and unemployed skilled and unskilled labor
Time Taken to Prepare
the Project:             12 months
Project Appraisal:       October 1984
Project Negotiations:    April 15-16, 1985
Board Presentation:      May 28, 1985
Loan Signing:            July 8, 1985
Loan Closing:            November 21, 1986









i MA(iN(i
Report No:       15393
'Type: VCN



