Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,dyf.SEa_b
Repot No. P-3970-1-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR fECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt5.8 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
May 1, 1985
lids dcuut has a restricted disutbutbu ad my be used by ueCPie.ts only  athe perfornme of
their offdl dutie  Its couat may not oherwie be dislosed without Word Bk authorit.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Dominican Peso - DR$
US$1.OU - DR$3.0
(Estimated average of floating unified exchange rate
introduced in January 1985)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEA.S-
October 1 - July 30
ABBREVIATIONS
IDB        Inter-American Development-Bank
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INFOTEP    National Institute for Vocational Training
RCLC       Rural Community Learning Center
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
MEASURES
1 meter = 3.28 feet
1 sq. meter (m2) = 10.8 sq. feet
1 kilometer (Kma   0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer (Km )   0.39 sq. miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acreas



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC         FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
.
Borrower:      The Dominican Republic
Beneficiary:   Instituto Nacional de Formacion Tecnico Profesional (INFOTEP)
Amount:        US$5.8 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable over 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:         The Bank loan would be made available to INFOTEP as a grant,
under a subsidiary financing agreement between the Borrower
and INFOTEP.
Project
Description:   The purposes of the project are to:
(1) Strengthen INFOTEP's role and capabilities to coordinate,
regulate and monitor developments in vocational
training. The proposed project would provide technical
assistance (47 staffmonths of consultants services and
eight staffmonths of fellowships) to (i) enhance INFOTEP
planning services and management, (ii) develop a training
standard and certification system, (iii) improve courses
content, and (iv) organize the technical supervision of
all vocational training courses;
(2) Assist the vocational training system, directly and
indirectly, through INFOTEP, to respond effectively both
in quality and quantity, to anticipated skill
requirements. The proposed project would (i) expand the
capacity to upgrade and train about 990 instructors
through the organization of about 57 courses; (ii)
establish a trainee follow up and placement system; (iii)
increase the pre-service training for about 850
additional unskilled workers; (iv) increase the
in-service training for about 5,500 additional skilled
workers and supervisors; (v) establist. a pilot production
training center to provide training for about 900 low
income workers engaged in the informal sector of the
economy; and (vi) enhance INFOTEP training advisory
services to assist about 560 enterprises in the training
of about 1,800 supervisors and managers. Therefore, the
project would provide for construction or expansion and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
equipment of three vocational training centers, for
complementary training equipment for other
collaborating training institutions, for the establlshment of
a mobile training program through the acquisition cf about 14
mobile sets of training equipment and about eight light
vehicles, and for technical assistance (59 staffmonths of
consultants services and 156 staffmonths of fellowships).
Risks:         No significant risks are associated with the technical
implementation of the project.
LOCAL      FOREIGN        TOTAL
-        -1S$ million
Project Cost:
A.  Technical Assistance Program to Strengthen   0.1             0.4         0.5
INFOTEP's Planning, Technical and
Administrative Capacity
B.  Program to Expand the Coverage
and Quality of Training:
Santo Domingo Training Center                  1.3          2.3          3.6
Completion - Santiago Training Center          0.1          0.1          0.2
Mobile Vocational Training Program             0.3           1.5         1.8
Pilot Production Training Center               0.0 1/       0.0 2,       0.0 3/
Training and Advisory Services4/               0.3           -           0.3
C.  Project Administration                         0.1           0.3         0.4
Total Base Cost                                2.2           4.6         6.8
Physical Contingencies                      0.2          0.5          0.7
Price Contingencies                         0.5          0.4          0.9
Subtotal                                0.7           0.9          1.6
Total Project Cost                             2.9           5.5         8.4
Financing Plan:                                LOCAL     FOREIGN      TOTAL       z
INFOTEP                                     2.3          -         2.3       28
IBRD                                        0.6        5.2         5.8       69
UNDP                                        0.0        0.2         0.2        2
Spain                                       0.0        0.1         0.1        I
Total                                2.9         5.5        8.4       100
1/  This figure is 0.017.
2/ This figure is 0.012.
3/ This figure is 0.029.
7i/ These include instructors' training, follow-up and placement services,
service training of supervisors, and advisory services to enterprises.



- ili -
Estimated Disbursements:                           -US$ million
*               Bank FY                            FY86    FY87       FY88    FY89   FY90
Annual                             0.5     2.4       2.4      0.3   0.2
Cumulative                         0.5     2.9       5.3      5.6   5.8
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
*          Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5470-a-DO, dated April 30, 1985
J



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.8 MILLION
TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$5.8 million to help
finance a Vocational Training Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. Under separate arrangements, the Government of Spain and UNDP would
support the project through technical assistance grants in the amounts of
US$81,000 and US$176,000 respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, Report No. 4735-DO, entitled
Dominican Republic: Economic Prospects and Policies to Renew Growth, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 13, 1984. Country
economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of
Hispaniola, the island situated between Cuba and Puerto Rico in the long
mountainous archipelago that stretches 1,500 miles from the Gulf of Mexico
into the Atlantic (Map IBRD 18817). The country is endowed with a variety of
resources, including minerals, fertile soils suitable for sun-nourished crops
like sugar, and long beaches attractive to a growing number of tourists. Its
5.7 million people have an average per capita income, in 1983, of about
US$1,330, placing it among the lower-tier countries in Latin America but
still middle income. The illiteracy rate, at 30 percent, is among the
highest in Latin America. Though 80 percent of the relevant age group is
enrolled in primary education, only 45 percent of the first graders complete
the primary curriculum.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1966-82)
4.        After a three-decade dictatorship and a brief but costly civil war
in 1965, the transition to fully participatory constitutional rule took place
X         slowly under the dozen-year presidency of Joaquin Balaguer.  During much of
this period, the Dominican Republic followed essentially conservative
macroeconomic policies. Monetary and fiscal policies were tied closely to
changes in the external environment, and trade policies sought to exploit
easy opportunities for import substitution.   Favorable terms of trade and a
relatively high investment rate produced high rates of growth. From 1968 to
1974, real GDP increased by 11 percent annually, export prices and volume
5rew by 15 and 9 percent, respectively.  Real production in manufacturing
grew annually by 14 percent, construction by 18 percent, and the incipient
but dynamic mining sector by 38 percent.



5.        Several new economic and political forces gradually began to
undermine the foundation of this growth, and rates declined first to a yearly
average of 4 percent during 1975-81, and then to under 2 percent during
1982-84.  External factors were important.  Export prices became                            a
substantially more volatile, adding more complexity to short-term
macroeconomic management after 1974. Export prices reached a peak in 1975,
declined by 30 percent in the 1979 period, reached a new peak in 1981 and
then plummeted again by 40 percent in 1982.  The oil price shocks of 1974 and
1979 increased the fuel bill tenfold, raising it to US$500 million by 1981,
nearly 40 percent of the import bill. In 1977 petroleum absorbed only 60
percent of sugar earnings, but by 1982 had risen to 133 percent. In the
1980s, export volumes also declined under the weight of the recession in the
industrialized countries; by 1982 export volumes had declined one-fifth from
their 1978 level. Similarly, rising interest rates on top of an increasing
debt took their toll; service payments on public debt rose from US$87 million
in 1978 to US$246 in 1979. These external factors--worsened terms of trade,
low export volumes, and high interest rates--caused GNP to be 8.8 percent
lower in the 1979-81 period than it would have been in the absence of these
abrupt changes in the external environment.
6.        But focusing solely on external changes would ignore the fragility
of the economic development strategy built upon import substitution, growing
subsidies, and price distortions. The trade and foreign exchange regime
accorded high rates of effective protection to several domestic industries
while penalizing potential new sources of exports. Moreover, during the late
1970s, the foreign exchange rate became increasingly overvalued. Although
pegged to the US dollar at par value, the conservative policies r cessary to
retain parity had been gradually abandoned in the late 1970s. By 1982 the
premium on the dollar in the nation's long-established, free-floating
parallel market fluctuated around 45 percent, but was slowly moving upwards.
Another element of long-term fragility was tax policy and administration.
The tax burden declined from about 18 percent of GDP in 1970 to under 10
percent in 1982. Simultaneously, public enterprise which had contributed
positively to public savings, reaching historic highs in the mid-1970s,
became a drain on the treasury by 1982.  At the same time, Government
expenditures rose at an accelerated rate after 1978. Thus, while at the
beginning of the decade, public savings amounted to 8 percent of GDP, by the
end of the decade they had dwindled to zero and by 1982 they were negative.
7.        This poor performance was in part caused by the hostile external
environment, since the performance of the state-owned sugar company and                     I
export taxes heavily influenced the savings rate of the public sector. But
other internal factors were nonetheless more important. As Dominican society
gradually became more open and political participation broadened during the
1970s, new social groups made demands on the public sector and the governing
political parties responded with favorable tax treatment, subsidies, and
employment opportunities. After 1979 this tendency was translated into even
more costly defensive actions to cushion urban labor and middle class
constituencies from the need to adjust to externally imposed declines in real
income. Examples of these phenomena abound. The Government granted an
increasing number of tax exonerations to importing firms, and revenues from
import duties fell from 6.7 percent of GDP in 1971 to 2.2 percent in 1982;



this practice created even greater distortions in the trade regime.
Similarly, the new policies led to freezes on key prices (food, electricity,
and petroleum). Thus, while the three principal state enterprises had
contributed a high of 2.6 percent of GDP to national savings in 1975, by 1982
they were absorbing public subsidies worth 1.6 percent. Likewise, after
1978, employment in the public sector increased at rates nearly double those
of the early 1970s.
8.        The high growth period of 1968-74 also masked inattention to
reforms in public sector institutions necessary to incorporate the poor into
the growth process, especially the rural poor. Even in the period of rapid
*        growth, the rural poor had received only a small portion of new income
generated. More than 40 percent of Dominicans live in absolute poverty, and
illiteracy and infant mortality rates are unacceptably high. Open and
disguised unemployment festered. The emergent anti-export bias took its toll
most heavily on the agricultural sector where most of the poor live, and
this, together with the pro-urban bias in new subsidies and employment, led
to accelerated rural-urban migration. Health investments mainly benefited
the cities. Education resources were directed more toward urban rather than
rural beneficiaries, and toward increasing opportunities in the high paying
professions rather than increasing the skills and productivity of the urban
and rural poor.
The Evolution of Public Policies Since 1982
9.          The new Government that took office in August 1982 concluded a
three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the IMF in January 1983. As
part of the program, the Government raised taxes by one percent of GDP and
reduced the deficits of the large, inefficient state enterprise sector. It
improved the incentives for exporters and the efficient import substitution
by progressive transfers of imports and exports into the free-floating
parallel market. Finally, by year-end 1983, it had also reached an agreement
in principle with its commercial creditors to reschedule US$660 million of
outstanding loans.
10.       However, the new Government underestimated both the gravity and
complexity of the crisis. As growth slowed in mid-1983, the Government
adopted an expansionary fiscal policy in the third quarter of 1983. This
only aggravated macroeconomic problems. Additional income was quickly
translated into more imports and capital flight; the floating rate jumped
from 165 percent of the official rate to more than 300 percent in the last
quarter and uncertainty spread. By year-end the Government had failed to
reduce the overall public sector deficit or the external imbalance, and did
not meet many of the targets of the EFF.
11.       Resolving the situation required greater fiscal cutbacks, taxes,
exchange rate adjustments, and credit restriction during 1984; this made the
conditions for the second year of the EFF more stringent, and eventually
politically unacceptable. By the end of 1984, the economic situation was
grave: the overall public sector deficit was 7.5 percent of GDP, the Central
Bank no longer had sufficient funds to service its external debt and make oil
payments, as traditional exporters were withholding revenues because the
Central Bank gave them an exchange rate worth only half their free market



- 4 -
dollar value. External arrears on the foreign obligations of the Central
Bank grew to an estimated US$505 million. Debt service in 1985, including
arrears, was projected to exceed all current account receipts.
.
12.       Nonetheless, the situation changed abruptly in January 1985 when
the Government took several difficult measures to resolve the financial
crisis and reach a new Standby Arrangement with the IMF.  The Government's
proposed program implies actions on the foreign exchange rate, pricing of
public enterprises, public finances, monetary policy and external debt. The
multiple exchange rate has been unified at the floating parallel market rate,
tantamount to a 58 percent devaluation relative to the average effective
exchange rate prevailing in 1984. With the increase in costs that
devaluation implies, public enterprises in electricity, petroleum
distribution, food distribution, and manufacturing are compelled to raise
their prices. Under the terms of the program, these increases will more than
compensate for the devaluation because most enterprises ran large deficits
even while receiving price subsidies through the dual exchange rate regime.
The new program also entails a package of tax increases, expenditure cuts,
and curtailments of subsidies worth more than one and one-half percent of
GDP. Interest rates are to be made more flexible, and the program is also
designed to assuage the acute foreign debt crisis caused mainly by short-term
borrowing during the last two years. Therefore, new net disbursements of
loans in 1985 with maturities of less than 12 years will be limited to
US$64.2 million, and the Government will limit its borrowing to sources
offering terms longer than 12 years. In addition, as part of the program,
the Government will reduce its external arrears during 1985 and restructure
its foreign debt. The Standby Arrangement was approved by the IMF Board on
April 15, 1985. In the meantime, the Dominicans have taken preliminary steps
toward renegotiating the Paris Club obligations aad restructuring the
commercial bank debt.
13.       If fully implemented, these measures constitute a major step
to position the economy for realizing its growth potential. With its
economically sound stabilization program now in place, we believe the country
is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
14.         Bank lending in the Dominican Republic has consistently sought to
promote a more diversified econiomic base, a more viable macroeconomic policy
environment, and iustitutional reforms that would promote more broadly shared
development.
15.       The Bank Group began its operations in the Dominican Republic in                V
1969 with a loan supporting the development of extended lateritic nickel
deposits. Since then, three IDA credits and 15 Bank loans (one of which--a
US$7.1 million loan for a municipal technical assistance project-was
cancelled) have been made.  The IFC has made four investments: an industrial
credit facility (cancelled), a cement plant, a cotton production and
ginning project, and a leasing institution. As of March 31, 1985, the total
of IDA credits and Bank loans outstanding was US$275.3 million of which
US$99.5 million were undisbursed. Annex II includes a summary of Bank Group



- 5 -
operations and IFC investments; notes on the execution of ongoing projects
have been distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
16.        Bank Group loans and credits have financed one nickel mining
operation; two education projects; two tourism projects; one livestock
project; two irrigation projects; three road construction and maintenance
projects; one population and family health project; one urban development
project; one sugar rehabilitation project; one coffee and cocoa
rehabilitation project; one reconstruction project for urgent imports and a
power and ports engineering project.
17.       The country's institutional weaknesses have hampered project
implementation and disbursement performance. Most projects have been plagued
with managerial weaknesses, delays in getting congressional ratification,
unavailability of required counterpart funds, changes in leadership and
policies. These problems have afflIcted the irrigation, sugar rehabilitation
and urban development projects. In the last few years the difficult fiscal
situation has caused a slowdown in the implementation of all public
investment projects.
18.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in the Dominican
Republic. Among the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and
the United Nations system. The IDB retains a diverse program with emphasis
on agriculture, public health, transport, energy and education but also
including important investments in the industrial and mining sectors, and
urban development. To date, the IDB has approved 56 lending operations for
more than US$960 million equivalent (of which about US$465 million have been
disbursed to date) and in addition has delivered important technical
assistance services. In the future IDB plans to maintain a strong program
with loans to the energy, agricultural and industrial sectors, and to
high-priority social projects in the fields of education and rural
development.
19.       USAID emphasizes food aid programs complemented by food production
programs. Other USAID assistance is directed to small/medium industrial
development, energy conservation, vocational education and skills training,
primary education and housing. The United Nations system provides a variety
of technical assistance and pre-investment support, and sponsors an important
mineral reconnaissance program. In addition, other donors (Federal Republic
of Germany, France, Sweden, Venezuela) support assistance programs in
selected sectors; much of their benefits flowing to the urban, energy and
power sectors.
Bank Strategy
20.       The economy of the Dominican Republic is overly dependent on a few
stagnant export crops. The price of sugar-crop which traditionally had
accounted for 30-40 percent of the country's export-continues to fluctuate
around historic lows and the prospects for improvement in the near future are
decidedly bleak. Unemployment will continue to be high, and absolute poverty
far more pervasive than the country's per capita income would indicate. The



Bank's strategy is to help the Government focus on long-term objectives
and/or reforms that will position the country to take better advantage of
available growth opportunities through export diversification and improve the
employment opportunities of the poor by increasing their productivity.
21.       The near-term lending strategy of the Bank is built on a small
number of well-targeted investment projects, since the Dominican Government
will continue to experience severe shortages of local funds to match project
lending. Besides the proposed project, the Bank contemplates projects to
help improve infrastructure, necessary to improve the country's new emphasis
on diversified exports and efficient import substitution. These include a
project in road reconstruction and maintenance, a power project and a project
for the construction of a coal terminal.
22.       Past economic work has identified essential sectoral reforms which
the Bank could support with policy-based lending. In agriculture,
impediments to exports inherent in tax and investment policies of the
Government must be removed to ensure maximum growth and diversification of
the country's exports. Also, food pricing policy should be revised to permit
automatic adjustments in response to changes in costs and market conditions.
In industry, the system of incentives to importers and exporters must be
reformed to enhance manufactured exports and promote efficient
labor-intensive import substitution. In energy, the Government will have to
revise its prices regularly in line with changing cost and market conditions
as well as undertake substantial institutional and administrative reforms in
the power generation sector. In health policy, expanded rural health care
delivery together with population programs could help mitigate the effects of
short-term adjustment on the poor while curbing the high population growth
rate.
23.       The proposed project is consistent with this strategy: it is a
financially modest, strongly focused project which does not require
Government counterpart funds and contributes directly to better integration
of the poor in the economic process by increasing their productivity.
In the long run, it will contribute to Government efforts to increase and
diversify the country's production capacity by increasing skilled manpower.
PART III - THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM
General
24.       The slowdown in growth plaguing the economy in recent years has
made the chronic unemployment problem acute. Open unemployment is estimated
at about 22 percent of the 2 million labor force and disguised unemployment
may be twice that. The situation is especially severe in urban areas where
previous pro-urban policies had attracted new workers. Nearly 60 percent of
workers now live in cities. Moreover, the Government's adjustment program
will reduce the subsidies and employment opportunities in the public sector
and throw a greater share of the adjustment to harsh external realities upon
the shoulders of the urban poor.



- 7 -
25.       One element of the open and disguised unemployment problem is the
mismatch between the existing supply of skills of the labor force and the
demand. The demand for skilled workers in industry, agroindustry,
construction and services (tourism in particular) is projected to grow more
rapidly than the demand for unskilled labor. Given the preponderanc2 of
supply in the low skill segment of the market and the scarcity in the higher
skill end, any resumption of economic growth is likely to be characterized by
a widening wage gap between skilled and unskilled workers. Thus, not only
will the short supply of skilled workers dampen growth, the structure of the
labor market will contribute to a worsening of income distribution when
growth resumes. Vocational training can mitigate both phenomena.
Characteristics of the Vocational Training System and its Institutional
Framework
26.       The Ministry of Education provides, through a variety of means
(secondary education, special courses and technical schools), education with
some vocational content to about 10,000 students. However, this training is
merely of a pre-vocational nature since most of the graduates either advance
to higher education or enter the job market in areas different from those
they were trained for.
27.       Vocational training proper is provided by a variety of private and
public institutions (Ministry of Agriculture, Armed Forces, Social Security
Institute, INFOTEP). Most institutions provide pre-service training, i.e.,
before entrance into the job market, to trainees who, in most cases, have
dropped out of the formal education system (at elementary or secondary level)
and in some cases, are adults without skills. Current enrollment in these
programs amounts to about 5,000 students who graduate as technicians or
mostly as certified skilled workers or craftsmen. Of this total, private
institutions absorb about 1,200 students and INFOTEP about 1,000. The Armed
Forces with 11 centers, the Ministry of Agriculture with four centers and the
private institutions provide for some regional coverage. The programs of the
Armed Forces, Social Security Institute and INFOTEP are mainly oriented
toward metal mechanics, construction and electricity, while the agricultural
sector is served by the limited vocational training capacity of the Ministry
of Agriculture.
28.       In-service training, which has existed only since 1983, is provided
by INFOTEP to about 4,000 trainees.  These in-service training programs,
although also covering the above-mentioned areas of specialization, emphasize
training in the services and agricultural sectors. These are provided by
INFOTEP's own instructors or by other training institutions supported,
technically and financially, by INFOTEP, and include training of supervisors
and production engineers in private enterprises.
The Vocational Training System's Performance and Issues
29.       The country's present capacity to retrain employed workers and
upgrade their skills represents less than one-fifth of the expected demand,
with these shortfalls being very critical to the services, agricultural and



- 8 -
metal mechanics sectors. The same projections indicate that, by 1987, the
demand for new skilled manpower (i.e., entering the job market) will exceed
the current training capacity of the country by about 100 percent. Clearly
there is a need to expand the vocational training capacity, particularly in
the area of in-service training.
30.       In addition, the pre-service training, as now conceived and run,
has problems with the relevance and quality of its programs.  Because of lack
of analyses and forecast of changes in the labor market, the content and
composition of the vocational training programs offered by the institutions
bear no relationship to market demands.  This results in enterprises
preferring to hire unskilled manpower and providing ad hoc on-the-job
training, and in high unemployment among the graduates of the pre-service
training programs. lhis problem is compounded by lack of coordination among
the institutions, resultiag in duplications and gaps in programs and location
of facilities; by poorly qualified instructors who lack relevant industrial
experience; and by the poor quality of the equipment and materials used in
training.
Strategy for Improving the System
31.       In order to structure the vocational trainiag activities, increase
their output and improve the adequacy of the training, the Government created
INFOTEP in 1980.1/ INFOTEP's mandate consists of (i) regulating,
coordinating and monitoring all vocational training activities in the
country; (ii) supporting the activities of existing training institutions;
and (iii) complementing existing training activities where and when needed.
This initiative received the support of the business community and trade
unions who are represented on INFOTEP's Board and finance, through payroll
levies, its operations. Besides enterprises and unions, the Ministries of
Labour, Education and Armed Forces are represented on the Board. The Board
is assisted, in technical matters, by a National Advisory Committee composed
of representatives of enterprises and trade unions and of Government agencies
as the subject matter requires.
32.       Since its inception, INFOTEP has received technical assistance from
multilateral as well as bilateral sources. This has allowed INFOTEP to
establish itself as an institution, to produce a preliminary medium-term
development plan for vocational training, and start implementing vocational
training programs, mainly at the in-service level. However, it still does
not have the technical capability and expertise to analyze the labor market
and forecast changes adequately; nor does it have the capacity to implement a
plan reuulting from such analyses. Also, it does not have the capabilities
and facilities to complement the shortfall of existing training capacities
adequately and to monitor the impact of the training programs.
33.       Coordination and Decentralization of the Training Activities.
INFOTEP intends to improve its capacities to analyze and forecast labor
market requirements, and to monitor the impact of training provided. These
would enable INFOTEP to assist other institutions in planning and
1/ The promulgation of Law 116 of January 1980 establishing INFOTEP was in
part the result of the Second Education Project (Loan 1142-DO) of 1975
(para 36).



coordinating their training activities both through direct advice and
selective support of programs of Institutions, and through coordinating
mechanisms such as INFOTEP's Board and sectoral technical advisory
committees, which will comprise representatives of training Institutions,
*        employers' organizations and trade unions.  The guidelines for the
establishment of sectoral technical advisory committees at the regional level
would be submitted to the Bank for comments by not later than June 30, 1986
*        and thereafter INFOTEP would promptly establish such committee- (Section 2.06
of the draft Project Agreement).  The use of common trade standdrds, to be
established by INFOTEP, would allow employers and training institutions to
identify timely the need for additional training of employed workers and, at
*        the same time, improve the targeting of programs by institutions.  Creation
of job placement services would enhance the integration of graduates into the
labor market and into jobs corresponding to their skills.
34.       Quality of Training.  In order for INFOTEP to contribute to raising
the quality of training, it plans to build up a capability to train its own
instructors, and those from other institutions and private enterprises,
whether new or experienced. Occupational analyses of all important trades by
INFOTEP should provide a basis for all training institutions to adjust and
upgrade course contents. Supervision of all training activities, based on
pre-established aorms and regulations, would become a continuous function of
INFOTEP and will require training of qualified supervisors. Finally, through
expanded but selective support of other institutions' programs (material,
equipment, instructional programs and technical assistance) INFOTEP will be
able to influence the relevance and quality of the courses; an action plan to
that effect would be prepared by INFOTEP and submitted to the Bank for
comment by March 31, 1986 and promptly thereafter implemented (Section 2.07
of the draft Project Agreement).
35.       Adequacy of Training.  INFOTEP aims at contributing to the
expansion of the training capacity, mainly in the area of in-service training
where the shortfall of the existing capacity is the greatest. It will expand
its own training capacity, as well as encouraging other training institutions
to expand in-service courses with adequate support of INFOTEP, end will
assist private enterprises in setting up and running internal courses. In
addition, the creation of a mobile training program by INFOTEP will not only
increase the training capacity but also increase flexibility in meeting the
training needs of a wider range of geographic locations.
Bank Participation in the E2ication Sector
36.       The Bank Group has financed two education projects in the Dominican
Republic: a First Education Project, supported by an IDA credit of US$4
million, was signed in February 1971 (Credit 235-DO), and a Second Education
Project supported by a loan of US$8 million, was signed in July 1975 (Loan
1142-DO). Another Education Project, focusing on rural primary education was
appraised, but was dropped by the Government from its investment program as
part of its financial adjustment measures.



- 10 -
37.       Tho first project aimed at preparing and implementing a reform of
the education system by improving the quality and content of secondary
education and training of primary teachers, and by preparing a comprehensive
long-term plan for educational development.  At completion2/ (April 1977),
the project had provided a modern, well-equipped and geographically balanced
physical setting for secondary schools and primary teachers' training
colleges. The reform of secondary schools suffered from implementation
delays, and thus, had only a partial impact.  The educational planning was
not finalized and the reform of secondary education (structure and
curriculum) was only partly completed and implemented, indicating the need
for detailed pre-established job descriptions and timetables allowing
effective supervision and evaluation of consultants' work in future projects.
38.       The second project was designed to address the most important
issues of rural basic education and vocational training, including
agriculture. The project aimed at the rationalization of the physical
distribution of rural primary education and provided, to that effect, for
construction or expansion and equipment of rural community learning centers
(RCLC), as well as of agricultural and other vocational training centers, and
included a technical assistance component for upgrading programs for teachers
in the RCLCs. At completion>/ (December 1983) the rationalization of the
rural primary education had been achieved by-the creation of the RCLCs,
complemented by the primary teachers' upgrading programs; four agricultural
and three other vocational training centers were established; and, also,
INFOTEP was created, which prepared a preliminary medium-term development
plan, a first step toward a sustained improvement of the vocational training
system (para 31).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.      The Government of the Dominican Republic has requested the Bank's
assistance in financing a five-year project aimed at improving the country's
vocational training system, through increasing INFOTEP's capacity to
coordinate, regulate, monitor and decentralize vocational training
activities, and to improve the quality of and expand the vocational training
system.
40.       The proposed project would help the Government's development
efforts oriented to more intensive use of the country's natural resources (in
agriculture, tourism and resource-based manufacturing).  It would contribute
to increasing labor productivity and reducing unemployment. Another
important feature of the government policy that this project would support is
producing incentives for regional development in order to slow worker
migration to the major cities and promote a more equitable distribution of
development benefits.
2/ Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2021), April 11, 1978, and Project
Completion Report of the same date.
3/ Project Completion Report of August 15, 1984.



- 11 -
41.       The Bank's support of the proposed project is justified because:
(i) it would contribute to an overall improvement and more rational
utilization of the Dominican Republic's vocational training system; (ii) it
would aid the Government's efforts to improve worker productivity and
regional distribution of employment; (iii) it would contribute to enhancing
exports and to attracting foreign investment; (iv) it is feasible in terms of
financial and administrative capacities of the borrower and the implementing
agency; and (v) it would complement the Bank's previous involvement in
institution building in the area of education and vocational training.
42.       A subsector study4/ mission visited the Dominican Republic in
February 1984, followed by a preparation/pre-appraisal mission in June 1984.
The project was appraised during October 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. on April 15 and 16, 1985. The Borrower and the Beneficiary
were represented by a delegation led by Dr. Pedro Franco Badia, Secretary of
Labour. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5470-a-DO, dated April 30, 19B5) is
distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary project data
sheet.
Project Objectives
43.       As noted above, the project has two major Dbjectives:  (a) to
enable INFOTEP to coordinate, regulate and monitor developments in the
vocational training system; and (b) to expand INFOTEP's capacity to provide,
directly and indirectly, appropriate training in response to anticipated
skilled worker requirements.
Project Components
44.       With regard to achieving the first objective, the proposed project
would provide technical assistance (47 staffmonths of consultants services
and eight staffmonths of fellowships) to INFOTEP to (i) enhance INFOTEP
planning services and management; (ii) develop a training standard and
certification systems (iii) increase improve courses content; and (iv)
organize the technical supervision of all vocational training courses.
45.       Concerning the second objective, the proposed project would (i)
expand the capacity to upgrade and train about 990 instructors through the
organization of about 57 courses; (ii) establish a trainee followup and
placement system; (iii) increase the pre-service training for about 850
additional unskilled workers; (iv) increase the in-service training to about
5,500 additional skilled workers and supervisors; (v) establish a pilot
production training center to provide training for about 900 low income
workers engaged in the informal sector of the economy; and (vi) enhance
INFOTEP training advisory services to assist about 560 enterprises in the
training of about 1,800 supervisors and managers. Therefore, the project
would provide for construction or expansion and equipment of three vocational
training centers, for complementary training equipment for other
collaborating training institutions, for the establishment of a mobile
training program through the acquisition of 14 mobile sets of training
equipment and about eight light vehicles, and for technical assistance (59
staffmonths of consultants services and 156 staffmonths of fellowships).
4/   Vocational Training Subsector Memorandum, Report 5148-DO.



- 12 -
46.       Planning of Vocational Training System.  The proposed project would
include expert services and fellowships to provide assistance and training to
managerial and technical personnel of INFOTEP, and developing the
appropriate mechanisms for planning and orienting the vocational training
activities of the system components. To these ends, 55 staff-months of
technical assistance, of which 24 staff-months will be financed by UNDP, have
been included in the project.
47.       Training Standard and Certification Services.  With support of
consultant services (three staffmonths) and a fellowship financed by the
project, INFOTEP would develop a trade testing system based on training
standards for recognized, skilled occupations. This would allow the
monitoring of training quality and relevance by targeting courses to provide
training in required skills; it would also motivate workers to attend the
prescribed courses in order to obtain a certification of the level of skills
acquired.
48.       Occupational Analyses and Course Content.  To increase the
relevance of training to labor market requirements and to standardize
training programs, the project would include: occupational studies in 35
occupations, preparation of 320 training modules, and experimentation with
modern training methods. Occupational analysis would be the basis for the
preparation of syllabi for different training modules, allowing workers to
attend successive courses according to their specific training needs. To
these ends the project includes consultant services (three staffmonths) and a
fellowship.
49.       Supervision of Training Courses.  Supervision of all courses
provided by the different institutions would be organized as a permanent
INFOTEP function, and executed by qualified personnel to ensure that programs
are implemented following pre-established standards and methodologies. The
availability and quality of equipment, tools, training facilities and
training materials would be assessed, as well as trainers' skills and
performance. The -project includes consultant services and fellowship to this
end.
50.       Instructor Training Program.  The project would finance 57 training
courses for instructors of INFOTEP and collaborating institutions. INFOTEP
specialists, assisted by experts financed by the project, would train about
400 new full-time and part-time instructors and about 590 experienced
instructors.
51.       Trainee Follow-up and Placement.  Selective follow-up of graduates
would be organized to obtain feedback on the impact of the training on
workers' employment, income and performance.  Placement services and training
agency-employer committees would facilitate the employment of new graduates,
and help detect changes in needs and spot program deficiencies. To that
effect the project provides for consultant services and fellowships.
Specific follow-up studies, financed by the project, of the graduates of the
proposed pilot production center for the informal sector occupation will be
carried out to provide a basis for deciding about future expansion; such
studies would be prepared by INFOTEP in consultation with the Bank and the



- 13 -
results would be presented to the Bank for comment and discussions by
December 31, 1987 and promptly thereafter implemented (Section 2.07 (a) (ii)
and (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Expansion of Training Opportunities.  The proposed project, when
fully operational in 1989, would expand the country's yearly training
capacity to supply pre-service training for about 850 additional trainees,
and in-service training for about 7,300 additional active workers and
supervisors representing about 25 percent of the target group; of this total,
5,000 trainees would be reached through the mobile training program, 1800
through the training services in firms and 500 in training centers. In
addition, a pilot production training center would be established in a suburb
of Santo Domingo offering training opportunities to about 900 low-income
workers engaged in informal sector trades, which would allow then to earn
some income from the sale of items produced during training.. Pre-service
training would mainly be expanded in agriculture and netal-mechanics.
In-service training would be expanded about equally in industry, agriculture
and service sectors, and to a lesser extent in the construction sector. In
addition, the in-service training capacity would be further increased
substantially by private firms using the trainers/supervisors trained by
INFOTEP, and by shifts, promoted iy INPOTEP, in other institutions' programs,
towards in-service training. Furthermore, expansion of training capacities
would take place through creation or expansion-of vocational training centers
and mobile training programs.
53.       The project would provide financing of construction, furniture and
equipment for INPOTEP's training center in Santo Domingo, and completion of
the Santiago Center, owned by the Ministry of Education but to be used in
part by INFOTEP under a formal agreement between the two parties. The
project would also provide equipment and furniture for the pilot
production-training center, and finance the replacement of obsolete equipment
and provision of additional equipment for one small existing training center
in Santo Domingo (Herrera), and otber selected training institutions.
54.       The proposed project would also enable INFOTEP to operate training
programs in small towns and rural commuities where fixed centers would not
be economically viable. Financing would be provided for fourteen mobile sets
of equipment to provide for or complement existing local physical facilities
of the commuuities or collaborating training institutions. To that effect
INFOTEP will enter into agreements with enterprises or public agencies (such
iL      as the Ministry of Housing, Agriculture or Education) who will share the
responsibility of the courses with INFOTEP and organize the recruitment of
participants. The mobile sets would be specialized in industrial sewing,
maintenance and metal mechanics, house construction, agricultural mechanics,
and food production and preservation.  This approach, which has proven to be
successful in other countries of the region under Bank financed projects, is
characterized by its low cost, high return and flexibility.
55.       INFOTEP's Advisory Services for Enterprises Requiring Systematic
On-the-Job Training Programs.  INFOTEP would enhance its capacity to assist
enterprises in diagnosing training needs and in implementing on-the-job
training programs. Courses would be offered to improve skills in



- 14 -
organization, planning, administration, industrial relations, accident
prevention, etc. Supervisors and technicians would be trained as trainers in
specific subjects, where upgrading of skills of workers is needed. By 1988
about 560 enterprises would benefit from such assistance, permitting about
1800 supervisors and managers to be trained per year. To that effect, the
project would provide (i) technical assistance for developing training
programs in small and medium enterprises; (ii) provision for fellowships for
INFOTEP technical staff; (iii) audio visual aids and learning materials; and
(iv) printing equipment to produce the instructional materials for the
programs.
Project Costs and Financing
56.       Costs.  The total cost of the project (net of taxes) is estimated
at DR$25.1 million or about US$8.4 million equivalent, of which US$5.5
million equivalent is foreign exchange (66 percent). Cost estimates for
civil works are based on tenders received. Equipment and furniture costs are
based on inventories of requirements. Costs of technical assistance are
assessed on the base of terms of reference and a program of consultant
deployment. Physical contingencies amount to 10 percent and price
contingencies for local and foreign costs combined amount to 12 percent,
based on estimated inflation rates for local costs of 26.6 percent in 1985,
13 percent in 1986, 10 percent in 1987, 8 percent in 1988 and 7 percent in
each of 1989 and 1990, and for foreign costs of 5 percent in 1985, 7.5
percent in 1986, 8 percent for each of the years 1987 through 1990.
57.       Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$5.8 million would finance
69 percent of the total project cost or 94 percent of foreign exchange cost
and 20 percent of local costs. This level of financing is recommended on the
following grounds: the reserves accumulated by INFOTEP to finance in part the
proposed project have lost 55 percent of their purchasing power since
appraisal as a consequence of the change in the exchange rate system and
concomittant inflation; because of its ongoing adjustment program, the
Government cannot provide the funds to fill the financing gap. INFOTEP would
contribute, mainly from accumulated revenues, US$2.3 million equivalent,
representing 28 percent of the total project cost; the annual contribution
during project implementation will be reflected in INFOTEP's budget. Under
separate arrangements, the UNDP and the Government of Spain would finance
technical assistance for about US$0.3 million, which represents some 3
percent of the total project cost and 6 percent of foreign exchange costs.
The Government would pass on the proceeds of the loan as a grant to INFOTEP
by a financing agreement, acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.01 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Execution of the financing agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
58.       Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of
INFOTEP. A project director has been appointed from the staff of INFOTEP,
while the Director General of INFOTEP would have overall project
responsibility. The appointed project director has qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank, according to agreed terms of reference. INFOTEP



- 15 -
would maintain a project director with qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank during project implementation (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Project
Agreement). The project director would be assisted by INFOTEP's planning,
technical and administrative directorates and the construction department.
The project is expected to be implemented over five years, and to be
completed by June 30, 1990.
59.       Executing Agency.  INFOTEP is a semi-autonomous organization,
established by law in 1980 as the main vocational training entity in the
country (para 31). The headquarters are located in Santo Domingo and it has
facilities with regional responsibilities in Santo Domingo, Herrera, Santiago
and Azua.  It is administered by a Tripartite Board, chaired by the Secretary
of Labor, and composed of representatives of the Government, employers
organizations and trade unions. The Board is mainly responsible for
policymaking, resource allocation, and review and monitoring of key issues
concerning budgetting, staffing, long-term planning and organizational
setting. A General Directorate executes policy, supervises training programs
and coordinates operations. The institution is organized in five operational
units: Finance; Collection; Administration and Personnel; Methods and
Operations; and Planning and Studies. The Institute is financed through a
payroll levy on public and private enterprises and their employees
(contributions of 1 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively), representing
US$2.1 million equivalent in 1985 and expected to increase in constant 1985
terms to US$2.5 million equivalent by 1989. A specific action plan to
increase INFOTEP income by 20 percent in real terms by December 31, 1989 by
improving the efficiency of collecting the payroll levy would be prepared by
the Government and submitted to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1986,
and promptly thereafter implemented (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). From 1980 to 1985 INFOTEP's income exceeded operating
expenditures, resulting in accumulated reserves which would be used to
finance part of the project. In early 1985, INFOTEP's total staff amounted
to 284 persons, which is expected to increase to 324 by 1989, when the
project would be fully operational. INFOTEP's recurrent budget is forecast
to increase in constant terms from US$1.83 million equivalent in 1985 to
US$2.47 million equivalent by 1989, when it will be fully operational. In
the intermediary years INFOTEP is expected to generate surpluses on its
income which will complement the revenues accumulated through 1985, to
finance the project.
60.      Procurement.  Procurement for civil works is being carried out on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines.  Tenders for the first phase of the civil works, including
construction of workshops, sanitary facilities, guardhouse and storerooms of
the Santo Domingo Regional Center, were received in December 1984. The same
procedure is being followed on the second phase of the construction program,
which includes classrooms and offices for the Santo Domingo Regional Center,
and completion of the Santiago Center, owned by the Ministry of Education.
Contracts for equipment, furniture and other materials would be grouped to
form attractive packages, as far as possible, and when exceeding US$50,000
would be awarded on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts below US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with government procurement



- 16 -
practices acceptable to the Bank; such purchases would, in aggregate, not
exceed US$350,000. In addition, miscellaneous items that cannot be grouped
in packages exceeding US$20,000 would be procured through local purchasing on
the basis of three price quotations; such local purchasing would not in
aggregate exceed US$300,000. Prior Bank review would be required for
contracts exceeding US$100,000. Other contracts would be subject to random
review by the Bank after contract award.  Contracts for technical assistance
would be made in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In the case of ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin in bid
evaluation equal to the prevailing tariff or 15 percent of the CIF bid price,
whichever is lower. Annex IV provides the details of procurement modalities.
61.       Disbursement.  Because of the advanced stage of preparation and
implementation of parts of the project (civil works, equipment procurement
and technical assistance), a disbursement profile, which is substantially
different from that of the average education project in the region, has been
adopted, which projects fast disbursement of the loan amount. The Closing
Date would be December 31, 1990. The proposed loan is expected to be
disbursed over a period of about five years to cover: (a) 30 percent of
total expenditures for the second phase of the building program which
includes part of the Santo Domingo Center (classrooms and regional office)
and the completion of the Santiago Center; (b) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, and 80 percent of local expenditures (excluding taxes) for
furniture, equipment and vehicles, including installation costs where
applicable; (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services
and fellowships. Disbursements against civil works, fellowships and
contracts for furniture and equipment with a value of up to US$20,000 each,
would be made on the basis of :tatements of expenditure. Relating documents
would be retained by INFOTEP and would be made available for Bank review.
All other expenditures would be fully documented. A Special Account, in
U.S. dollars, would be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, through an
initial deposit and subsequent replenishment (Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The initial deposit would amount to US$0.5 million
equivalent.
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
62.       INFOTEP would maintain separate accounts for the project in
accordance with acceptable accounting practices. A summary of project
accounts, reflecting cumulative expenditures incurred by the end of each
semester, would accompany progress reports sent to the Bank for information.
All INFOTEP accounts, financial statements and statements of expenditures
relevant to the project would be audited annually by independent auditors
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank.  The annual auditor's report and
the certified copies of all relevant financial statements would be remitted
to the Bank not later than 120 days after closing of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement). INFOTEP's current accounting
practices and its auditing arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.
Similarly, the Government would be required to have the Special Account
audited annually by independent auditors with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- L7 -
Project Justification and Benefits
63.       Building on an initiative started under a previous Bank financed
operation, the project would further the development of the vocational
training system through institutional development of INFOTEP, increases in
coverage and quality of the vocational training provided, thereby
contributing to the government's development efforts.
64.       Institutional Development.  The project would equip INFOTEP with
the capacity to carry out integrated planning for the vocational training
system, to assist enterprises and institutions to upgrade training programs,
and to optimize the use of the country's physical and human training
resources.
65.       Improvement in Coverage.  The project would double the country's
capacity to supply in-service training in Santo Domingo and in the regions.
Coverage would be further increased by: (i) the multiplier effect of firm
instructors/supervisors trained by INFOTEP; and (ii) changes in the
orientation of courses offered by collaborating institutions. Sectoral
coverage would also be enlarged.
66.       Improvement in Quality.  Quality of training would improve because
of the availability of: (i) instructors with upgraded qualifications; (ii)
program content reflecting labor market requirements; (iii) adequate training
equipment, tools and materials; (iv) periodic technical and pedagogical
supervision of the courses; and (v) periodic follown-i- of gLaduates'
on-the-job performance.
Risks and Proposed Measures
67.       No significant risks are associated with the technical
implementation of the project. Achieving the project's objectives, aimed at
improving the whole vocational training system, is, however, subject to two
potential risks. The first is concerned with INFOTEP's ability to fulfill
its primary role of coordinating and monitoring all training activities in
the country; the second refers to the readiness of INFOTEP to provide
adequate financial resources to support the training activities of
collaborating institutions.
68.       INFOTEP's Ability to Coordinate and Monitor the System.  As a newly
organized institution, there is always the risk that INFOTEP may prove to be
ineffective in its role of coordinating the activities of the entire system,
and may become instead another palliative institution competing with public
and private institutions already providing training. This risk would be
reduced if, as is recommended in the proposed project, INFOTEP were given the
means to offer good quality services, and thereby earn prestige as well as
the confidence of its clients. A technical assistance program, which forms
an integral part of the project and built upon technical assistance
previously provided by INFOTEP, aims to assist INFOTEP's technical staff in
coping with this task.



- 18 -
69.       INFOTEP's Allocation of Resources to Support Collaborating
Institutions. INFOTEP has been expanding its training activities rapidly, to
some extent at the expense of collaborative efforts with other training
agencies, thus limiting its influence on improving the quality and providing
direction for the rest of the system. The required resources would be
obtained by earmarking an increasing portion of INPOTEP's resources for these
purposes by mitigating INFOTEP's tendency to increase its administrative
expenditures (including salaries).  Therefore, assurances have been obtained                a
from INFOTEP that it would maintain separate entries in its annual operating
budget for contribution to other training agencies through several means,
such as training materials and equipment, instructional program and technical
assistance. A plan identifying measures to be taken to increase the share of
these activities in INFOTEP's annual budget to 30 percent by December 31,
1989 would be submitted to the Bank for comment by June 30, 1986, and
implemented promptly thereafter (Section 4.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank, the Project Agreement between the Bank and INFOTEP, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (ii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately. Execution of the financing
agreement between the Government and INFOTEP, acceptable to the Bank, would
be a condition of effectiveness.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
)
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 1, 1985



- 19 -                                                      ANNEX I
T AB  L   SA                                    Page  1  of  5
DOMINICAN    xRI .     -                        - CI4 ImLA MUST   AUS
DOMINICAN RUP.                               (HOST RECEN  ES,0TKNDATE3 4k9)t
N T                 (M0S T       2Hw sn"SXI
neatk    igL  mEIIT  NIDDLT INT'A      HIOOINCOI
19taL     im&t       m  TICLb        T  AMC CARA Gi               WOrE
AIX   TlDa Nl SQ. -)
TOTAL                                U6.7       4U.7        4U.7
*                 AGRICULTURAL                         13.3        25.1        27.6
Wri    CAPITA (US)                     250.0       420.0      1330.0              2106.6                 2345.3
UI;T   CuIt_ u IE M  CAPITA
(KIIoGRAMS OP OIL EQUIVALENT)       106.0       236.0       34.0               995.5                  1122.6
lMUIATIO UM VlTAL atATImCB
POPULATION*Hl-DYEAR (THOUSANDS)    3047.0      4006.0      5744.0
URAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)         30.2        40.3        52.9               66.5                    4b.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (NILL)                             6.4
*                   STATIONARY POPULATlON (MILL)                               14.9
POPULATION INIENTUI                                         1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                        62.5        62.2       114.0               35.7                    52.9
PEM SQ. D. AOl. LAND              166.3       159.9      202.7                92.4                   156.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 Tlts                         47.3        49.0        43.9                39.9                   31.0
15-64 Yrs                          49.3        46.3       53.1                56.0                    01.1
bS AND ABOVE                        2.9         2.7         2.7                4.1                     7.1
POPULATION CROMN RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               3.6         2.7         3.0                2.4                     1.6
URAN                                6.0         5.S         5.3                3.b                     3.7
CRUDE BIKRT  RATE (IER THOUS)        48.6        43.7        33.5               31.3                    23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         17.0        12.1         7.6                6.1                     H.N
cROSS RPRODUCTION RATE                3.6         3.2         2.2                2.0                     1.0
FAMILY PLNNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TbOUS)            ..        17.Z       B8.9 Ic
USERS (t OF HARRIED WMER)                                 42.0                40.3
DOD AM ITRITICI
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1909-71-l00)                        96.0       100.0      104.0               114.3                   114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY oF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       96.0       100.0       106.0              110.6                   126.6
PROTEINS (CMS PER DAY)             47.0        49.0       52.0                67.3                    59.7
OF WHICH ANlIAL AND PULSE        25.0        27.0        21.0 /c            34.1                    34.5
CHILD (AMES I-4) DRATN RATE          20.0        10.1         5.0                5.7                     5.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        50.9        5b.6       62.4                64.7                    67.4
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       119.5       90.0        64.5                60.b                    54.2
ACCESS TO SALFE WATER (irOr)
TOrAL                               3.2 /I    37.0         55.0 /d            65.4
URBAN                              22.9 7f    72.0 o.0 7;i                    76.1
RURAL                               1.4 W      14.0        27.07             4*6.2
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
(: UF POPULATION)
TOTAL                     58.0                             42.0 /d            52.9
URBIA                                .         6. 3.0     74.0 7d7            67.0
RURAL                                ..        54.0        16.0 77            24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           8220.0 1e  2070.0      2320.0 If           1917.7                  1065.H
PUP. PER NURSING PERSON                ,,      1920.0     2150.0               3 I15.3                 764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                             400.0       340.0       370.0 /d           367.2                   326.3
URBAN                                ..       270.0         ..               411.5                   201.5
ROURAL                                       2610_0                         2634.3
ADMItSSIONS PER HoSPITAL BED           ..        33.0 th      ..                27.3                    20.0
HOIISIIIC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOrAL                               5.0         5.2
URBN                                4.6         5.0
-                  RURAL                               5.1         5.3         ..                  ..                       .
AVERAGE PO. OF PERSONS/ROOI
TOTAL                               2.0         1.5
URBAN                               1.6         1.2
RURAL                               2.2         1.8         ..                  ..                      ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF SDWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              20.0        3b.8
URBAN                              57.7        76.3         ..                  ..                      .
RURAL                               3.0        10.7



ANKN?X I
-20 .LL               A                     Page 2 of 5
MR                   t ell acci  n Ueu"aAn
issLk ~    ~      ^ i,ioLs z.:zwcL  u
R  b      ~~NEIZCA5 ZCAR             EUROPE
tl,tl   197t1!   *1SXU               LA?. XCIr 6 CA             ausn
U--
AUIED EUOLGNT sTIOS
PIZNA      TOTAL                   55.0        13.0       10.0               105-.                   101.1                     4
NlW                     99.0        15.0          *-              10.3                   105.5
FELY                    9h5.0       1.0          *.               104.5                    7h.7
*SCONDARas TOTAL                    7.0        20.0       41.0                43.2                    53.1
NILE                     7.0        20.0          *-               52.3                     8.9                      -
rEWE                     7.0        20.0         ..                55.5                    50.5
VOCATIONAL CE a IECOIDARE)           43.5         5.2        6.2                33.6                    21.5
PUPIL-TEACHI RATIO
PIEDLRY                            55.0        55.0        s3.0               30.1                    25.1
SECONDARY                          15.0        27.0                           16.5                    20.5
AULT LTERACY RATEn (2)               64.5        67.2       48.0                79.5                    75.5
PARSENURI CARS/I0USND  OP             3.5        I.E        15.4                56.0                    54.7
into RECCIVERVUOUANo P0OP            33.5        50.3       40.5               2253.                   165.9
TV Ec2Z121/TUOSAND POP                3.2        25.0       70.9               107.2                   123.6
NEWEPAIIU ('DAILT ESEEAL
IuTUhsT) cIUCULA!IOI
TIAs   POPULATON              26.9        36-3        61.7               6 3.5                   96.2
CSII JUlltAL ATTENDANCEICAPIT         1-7         L-2        1.4 Rdt             2.8                     2-9
TOTAL LAWIL 1OCE (TRUS)             054.0      1060.0     1601.0
FEmALE tPRCENT)                    10.5        1L.1       12.6                23.2                   34.5
AGZXCULTUIZ (PERCEIT)              66.5        61.2       49.0                31.5                    40.7
INDUSTET CIECNT)                   12.2        14.0       15.0                23.9                   23.3
PARTICIPATIOU RATE (IIRCZUT)
TOTAL                             2A.0         26.5       27.9                32.2                    *2.9
KALZ                               59.4        46.5       58.3                49.3                    54.7
EnAL                                5.0         5.9        7.1                15.2                    31.0
ECOOC DiUPw CT UTIO                   1.8         2.0        1.7                 1.4                    0.9
PERCNT or nIvATE INCom
zczivzD Er
XEST S OF . ..EMOLDS                 ..
IICEE  202 Orf       L               ..          .. V5UO....4.0
LOWIEIT 202 0Ct IUEOLS               ..         ..         5.3
LOWES 40Z or &OUSERIUS               ..          ..       14.5 j
ZZZln USID    C OLDS  ozn      c
ISTDIATE  ABSOLUTE POVETY INCOME
LEL (US* HZ  CW11A)
IIU.UI                               ..          ..      451.0               2U.2
RUAL                                 ..         ..       263.0               154.0
ISTDIATED RELATIVE POVERT  INCME
LET. CUS6 PR CAPITA)
015                                 ..         ..       265.0 /f            522.5
RIUL                                 ..         ..      1U.67f               372.5
EsTITED POP. BIM  ISOLUTE
PoVEny INC=  LEVE   ) C
1U9AL                               4.           .          .07                  ..
NOT AVAILAPLE
Wr~~~~~~~~~~~~                        O t rz S
UT AMLICARLE ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ 9    TE 
/a    e group amrae. for ach Indicator are population-welghted aritimetic me_n.  Coverag of contrias emont tbe
Lndieator. depeds on availabiity of data and ia uot aniform.
Unless otbezulee noted. Data for 1960' refer to an  year betwee  1959 end 1961; 'Dta for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; ed  data for 'Hot Reant Etetite' between 1960 ed  l982.
/c  1977; Id 1975; / 1962; If 1978; ,L 1976; /b 1972; LI Perent of housing unit. hith piped water;P 1979.
Jan. 1984



mfis  .                                                                                                        5gW5a5ii   -m3
a.....Om SSlSSn   a-s swLs  35uus is -  .33 --    355s"  a-nat-ass At                                                                 -Wasmu  -W . a= --
f-l.11t1 elel T53-3 l3- Wo3.53l                                                     J. *ii3 ii 3eel"5 Am isi  .'leme.35 IP  55W5?o sl -M.i As.`
-Som An-  *txta-I twsS    i Si LAV -a
Po flAn. emw."ma3.3 1p . prd .s %a -iPns PTa-sn i-a at.-i
.5.31 -- n      135-P mm  At r          n- a5-  - .3 a. si  *
amst -  ftiaTt  P suS4-s 1.     a"  auminna-  a- ismu               s-i-m:ca .  mooo 3mm P""   aa5dM.sea WeImm".  aimS s-a   ..tS
Si -P3 s.5  3-5359 55 int --M5  .LZnOm  -P P   -% I-e5                                   aI  -mms.3-Tid  ep-na f          p a-tiu.si  is (ii- A.-Ti-
-                            -d-             --res                                      Vq..nesm     Stq-sn.e   a.-. pa   1fMIg aLiadd oa 
,ameS  3- mxomoxfml p5553333  TWO) in T! aS1   .ia-    A-i- rs p-iiui                    -   i-3-5   55355i                  aS-t  .3  25atia-ass
v-  -To-omususa-flaid. L-. a. -i-  a .in   ez,                                   t.nua. upjZ 34 -au. zs a0- ms5r - Tme& %--M Is a,sn
aisIa-S."                              -PIsiim St        1fi SNl-S'                                 1150oP tP   IN
P mememod ov we" 9-  v--"             M 3m-IstI                            SolWa5p xoUll -a 0115  ott !s.qs  ajlua  -tm ..   Ws
c2 uAq 3-J..  - (553  p5  is   55   nsu5-Lt!~l                                       3naI        3wi                  Pt        I nut ;smia fr  ns  p
s0I&DIUnO  izinmF-z                  19-m    :m   d                                      -3S, 
aix 3-a       ujItssa            3u   si  a-s  nisS3--iRR55-00a
.3 -momfVW-so                                                                          fl a  ano e5 v3.de1 v ---n - Wii  -is.fi P   mU PmE wasif VIA"  its
V   --J3-P20"Im  '-P--dW-PSe -u.3is ni mo-o  INa-isss" asi                       .a .    we  o-a5ad T""    -ts rA 3. -M-M -m.taa-   Me"Mis
V   3-33& ISIS tv. 3-  uSIsiSi  .32e p- ntem s,,.sn-u. omil55eIlj.Pa  mwit (3     emuaio Ime, so  sf3  Qo a-ma -it   momal an.  P  ma"-sa-"l
Ilisanasua nl  tisii msaut5 axmue3  lswu            usia                        i-s      - P-TM Ta-  P., as usaTd-  sI,s "FaSe  .i
isl I-OJ -"Its T-    3- 1101"W sisl -W V.n   ma -A3"isa                                                        "-u.  es-  P5t-      14  -1uu.-  mul '99 156 In- i'innuisa-5
3l5wmu is    l-on     moe - aini 3o3.   W35   - (u.a  s35-M sat   -.ata-  nat. - meiu OT  am-.n     a v-                  s. ir-a-Isi a. mmvwsj ,s11.
tgolasiis.       a- olltsm oisis.   situtuu  u3ia  *-"- - (iSusas.) ol.3a-? As   isesa Sahti 3--   P- .1naissm PsMuIstPi.t  -"3- 
sisf  El 3ILSIitit  sasi'~ts  iss  pu  L it 0mua  Imugtp`m`mm               *ssuinal- -mmMT Apsd %saMaspsiia         ts   n-T 3315.33- 'Lasiss
fS3  itI usiisusisa  mu 03 -vq      fsiq   5*3-               W.sass;o-                           WOSSeWm t 513 M=ss                    -ai        m5fS
as. Sa-r-   ussnssad 54535. AI      3i.mmo        iIi auuS                                               tsasdSSe            i      St-    iil
as  am           14am OGI'9MT2%-  n&ameod leemTo2m                                     .
P -nome -P  . mi :9   =        W T-.,  _W                   Pill! 3.9OS  (t-ta    t  sit'- i-dasp.Idm a-iAs -Ps.fn p-  Psi3
~Pee -a I-n  . -mAd. 1 l -(Tm,  di-.3                         ste ha-s  i-WT-   S-sn  3553*-Upi                   su3 
P."' iS  it, a- i -I asS t           st`um   i  3-5ssi   tn P.,i                     3*) mia-  . A.iI meisusmiii-ss    l                 si   ui3I.
alsauas -  mom  -" (muia-          a-sit Js.j s.1373mom me a-sm                                                        *ias.3 ---.3 a-P
S.i-saTi ptsuiuts omps-                            Vimi Aflnjs 1mmool: aTsai. anssapriaqaq
sO u-sml iis-da-5 n3- Lam--sAs  amuim" az-iP la-aa. 55    enn                          -.asducaa  is stn- t         s--a)iss,- -                  nj-sn M   IARs.
Sir= 1- mosl" iiTi".  SJSSLSI 3- me"vea-i St omwoi.a.. 3-Sa-il                                                                                          it
.".u    - ta-. tsujssi p. au .-sg i  sT=t  M..*  55 3it5   '"Ofl *'Cut .3 mIP- mus-as i-&..of All-., 2mo L.sj1tssa
si-ais  esiu5-im s  uSOel  Tif - (inamomm          --I.a  s       "Psii    niUalasads-ut. isnaid muSsIAmde  ot. ii P.""                  -
-a-pa-. tsnsm.                   siait         55 laITTtip 3u iu3  sisa-Papmmeleeo - Wa! -s      i  n.e
iosjaininn                            533 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16 3-  I1&  O0tjIm0iSn.
Sit 3- sas.h (i a-Us mitisiSs 53. is-pi. ais ut.uu ie    -i  si, 3-W                               T saoai  ntoS    ..p  %oolt "5
mu(nsa  3- a-n us..pt.) nra-. Wa-ItIt - (             _345   5  ---iII StuW              mmq  Iusn   ta -l 15 w   -    -MR.a4   si ta-sc sa 1i.6
v-ssnmoS   jut..  sap       .sansiii.         ii Tmm,i,sum.-a-.-us molammsml YI- ia.sI.nt PM                          =passausa       sa
5n11-mW-"  nilaf   (5503an a                 ,sSni) ssa-3-(-- tnsunea                                                      453up-  i    M. ma   sili
M , m4       -a i-t-   Si-Via-Cs               a-tiaMria   5  at      -ss~-attaliss.                             i
Ta -Ss. ..=uiu   Th  sn-    a it a. L-- stsd Uss.  M" a-ST *om. Si Iaa I                                                                          n
a-i  -ii3asiS  tissis  ii-.  Si 15Siiis5 iUmain As.pi-ii               351 (euasi.3 55)J. i503a  ..ai aI  niarpool        u       -eq  - 
Aaa-i.mu  Iaits" mu a-is"l - sjai"  a- j- "i sius - 'JUN"  Ls-mu0a  mma"Go)--                                     aem    moas  t l-  us iuii
lmm,il MI a-    Ak xi-sti pa   on.ompS t-i*Ime tIp  jmIo:In                                                            tSSi IIesaisidea .3ns. lrititasi
5.3  Sst5=Si  LA-ma -i   MOMitba  vmssisn   "a iii p 1u , Is      sassl              P s.iiaP Jsa Wash 5453- Poc Ot -ssd  Pi 5.u5    ."P P slnt
tisaa   aiTit  a-9-1i- LIpsu-  Imusisqei stll!a.m Lasuld                      -asim-at      -N(sd .5 a. .tsi.3;.- pnsIaa- m  - T.muisisa"Wel
ntslSmuao P mutilaamsI   m I-I Ii"?               le                                          hamAusins       Aninom n-si3 s.asiu  i-  3e siTaasis11 a-s
01-   mom5.t5a  -i -l T-   m    i"Pj3    W2tljiAaA                                      r   ssNo  ~9Mstaaia  i. nl  a. Is.-T is-a-ti  it  us a-wop
p- ~5-  p5. wommeia-man    (spen'su pMM sS-4a-) tii320        us na-S                 una. 35 3-  IT"          tn--0-0 ig-muT -un-fl SI al-tia-M  oltmul
sa-5i5 15ai.iiTV`..      ra-   .3s                         AmItiSun, 3- Lanssaus  iit  3- -  3- siq--~i
.3  wwa-ii q3-LnAs .As. .IpnMI S  amntv  -flsa- sia- iti3p-                          ml us pmen  ser                                 momn.5.tu55ass   - 11
susaN                   norp a A.tiit.as Ia-fl  An  nu458  s ni  3    sommsill
-~~      -spit ~~mileft m1s
- uiui P js a         inn tls  - PMit    SUm   uSim3                   t    -OLli 0OT1 II Altr P- m - sit          5  S     
n'.a-mu Ltrspass 3- t."?- 3.- *iulSi isa-a as I-ml si.wiisit
suas 3-  qssiis'" i"'-.i"sflsmai  MM W-i1-1 siuiui S-                                                                            S3Sp awl 3-  Kait      i
mmiims  td su s  'sA   nisti isa -I 155- P. aftm a mint s M-ia-d                          isaida - a   37u"jsbaguiu  is- as  a-aisi Si (Lnaisssiaais
3- a-iil.soe, ws.      do a- SAoi sl, tts eia -.AtiNs  -meam  selil.s                 a t-  --FApd  P" no9 seamlo Ima-t?sJ1S          WasIL3i-A
iSii3m- 5 At intl a-istStt * At   lesi LIou.n-aS 5m  uiasb   Tsa-                          pmfis. a. musus-same  wIssasi  iaswom -nTAX         d     5I
3- unit  a-isJ.t       ef ia.16silhdnqItis-  -pea-ta  a-s "I -a-s
isipsns. Listad a-tmaa-    Vempqys.3  -weiurotopmo -             t3-I isq                                                               nsPw Di 3-  KAI*  ml
a-jgnu ALia-inuas  sssswsttri.se   - .tnts     -nesum u nis.sins.3                       1(wosi  Wo-aw) mmUTWoof PIT" mu aeo-ti   e
--mtainuma- tins.                      gtu:ria- Wl   T sio a-i moin, 5.355P. 3-         sia-iiuis ."m
a-   -    ista    M-a  a-sarame-oman              -   atm-a p     -                 itsa            S Alimoloa  a-s veI5 i-mitp-iaveI  Waa-i   lS
iTo  LaT    iaa 4453- i-ga""   :        53fl3k3if5Mt    iSUmms. p3-1 3- Scat pqa S.islaise mus  gj   sr-m
3- Ainsiuia iti sMi a-i 55 "Isinta-?e -m 'in its fttas Si isaiss Ars. sam oft""a umon. smoma assawtai -o palas tlusmisaI sI a-eta-no
it lo msme ia- nua- as. W 3-m M" As Aliitqsnu- "as mu ia-Sins -wa-s M is f -muap- s stiomma -3memo -asesspisit a.a1 -Ms s"W moosgE
e.  a-a-ins. its me Litan MP Alm a-it. 3- aia-tai tis a-JBsomu-s mnsugia- pai-s               "nisuti   wes sitmsa-is  Wasglp ssas inca-pva on 1     .3 *tiiJl55Ic
isugitws-saim ontai  isa mons".  s.t ml ~.3m  e5si   -.Ws4  u PmusSaMatssN&Onr  ira. 5nisifJ.o=                          qu.z a-,ilea-u) Alsi5m  lwqs.
itPa beat da'a-s. "I ssls s-nie usi-a  -"qUR s%-ss te. bsAi aains. s (a) PM 'S-a- i-t   t  s13 sm    -isC) moi sissal sSS.ae,a a-j
-ntis-.e smut- -m-"saa,p mo[In qtan niasis.a.u  3- Si-sWa  iap "enirol                  ,s  mam- .3lalp
ustjn I-oeImiaqiemi, 'No Wa59 55  --rop -mi tsmutv  ta-.  muasa-a  ina-aiais it pomn saissa  wessisjp-na            sa-sin pupon    a-s  its isa ns-toes
Ltia-assva-aso oR "E Ls Asp s*-in PItE mi -P PI"" ii ssin*nt a-s ea-usuiasmu ie iti a- ~A-l Ltn-S mssmans mua mms,p- W. %fl its tilmmsl a-mit
gJo   asfi                                                          mwsmIX0 vim, mie          u
I ZINRY                                                                    -  l-



-22- -m I
Pag. 4 of 5
DOMINICAN REPWILIC - ECONDIC DATA
ON per capita, 1063' USSI.330 a/
Area: 48.5 ke2
Population: 5.6 mililon (old-1983)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984 b/                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GOITH (S In constunt Drien)
USS Mililon     S                    1908-75       1970-75         1075-84
GDP at Market Price                 5,4142.9   100.0                    6.1           9.2             3.6
Gros Domtic Investment              1,124.0    20.5                     13.4          17.6            5.5
Grmss Natlonal Savings                888.2     16.2                    4.7           16.0          -0.2
Current Account Balance              -226.3    -4.1                                   -                -
Export of Goods, NFS                1,390.9    25.4                     3.5          11.1             1.0
Import of Goods, NFS                1,554.5    28.4                     4.37         12.5           -1.4
OUTPUT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1984
(constant 1970 prices)
Value Added
USS illion         S
Agriculture, Livestock,
Forestry and Flshing                 549.5    17.1
Mining                                135.1      4.2
Industry                             844.4    26.3
Servlces                            1,682.5    52.4
Total                        3,211.5   100.0
GOVERNtENT FINANCE
Gaitral Govern_nt                   Central Governmnt
RlS IMillonc/   S%ot GDP            DR$ Million        S ot GDP
1984      1975    1984                1984        1975    1984
Currant Receipts                    1,261.4    21.6       11.5             1,103.9       18.2    10.1
Current Expenditures                1,129.9      8.3      10.3            1,296.9        8.0    11.8
Currant Surplus(C) or Deficit I-)     131.5    13.1        0.1             -199.3        10.2    -1.8
Capital Expenditures                  353.4    11.6        3.2              260.6        9.1      2.4
External Assistance (not)              -         -         --               139.7        0.3      1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970     1979         1960         1981        1982         1983       1904
(ORS mIIIIon outstanding end of period)
Money and Quasi-Money                          283.7   1,653.1      1,803.0      2,064.3      2,353.0      2,252.2    2,386.7
lank Credit to Public Sector                   213.1     552.8        652.8        995.6      1,379.2      1,694.6     1,824.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  174.9     893.1      1.044.5      1,019.9      1,113.5      1,258.6    1,412.9
WFercanteoes or Index Numbers)
Money and guas I-oney as 5 of GOP               19.1      29.9         27.1         27.3         29.4         25.8        21.8
Consumer Price Index (Base 1976-77. 100)        57.0     116.9         136.3        146.8       158.0        168.9       208.4
Consumer Prlce Index In
Annual Percantage Changes                    3.8       9.2          16.6         7.7          7.6          6.9        23.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector as of S of GOP     14.3      10.0          9.8         13.2         17.2         19.4        16.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector as of % of GOP    11.8      16.2          15.7        13.5         15.9         14.4        12.9
a/  IBROl World Atlas.
b/ Al I figures for 1984 are based on an exchange rate of DR52 to USSI, reprasenting the averaga of the sultiplo exchange rate syste.
Stnce the IBRD World Atlas, for 1983, uses the offtical aexchnge rat of ORSI to RSS1, the figures are not comparable.
c/ Estimated.



- 23 -                                  A=I
PalmS of 5
DuliloUll M_L       19106 -        4  CAPITAL PLO
UALAN- rF or PADNI7                                                                                          NELIUESIU   aE)T      eram 1971-54
77197   1P  IL7       1V    jn  ttill           111       IM      IN                                          1151 NI  W
AL9 911111ii
_ne (re)                             290.3        35. I
npw of  bde.s Ws              No.$   9117.9      61.0  1,114.9  1.271l.3  1,512.6  1.141.0 1.229.8  1,390.9 Cotfta (npromaad)                       94.2         9.5
_    I1    of Owd,. nFS           1.0 .0 1i0P.      t1                1911   I.e1.  1.16    la    I.54.5  ee. (r                                         62.6         7.1
Aour. f.o   (detlelt * -2   -114.1  -191.2    . 0   -349.4   41     -0.   -392.0   -33.0   -163.6  Tobm  fleas)                                     42.?         4.9
Perrloil                              17.3        1M.O
Not Pat_r lnce               -123.8  -123.4   -135.7  -17,.    -210.2   -M.1 -24.1   -27.1   -30.0  o                                            161.9         11.5
met IrmeafU% ej                          w       169.6             111.5   163.    2          215.0   267.3 OIieor                                 146.7        16.7
Cirrent AGeout Sialen        -241.9   -4J.   -311.9  -331.3   411.5  .405.9  -441.9   -61.1   -236.3             Tatal                             477.7       100.0
EKVIUL ODUT OECL_R 30. 1914   III           S MIll IIon
Olr.et foreign Invet.t         60.0    45.6        9.0   -13.4    62.7    79.7    -1.4         22.0     6.5
Net ILT horrlong               93.3   104.3       97.7   210.1    21z.7   153.6   192.8        24.1     16.0 Pabile DA* incladlng g_rent.n  private    2,354.3
Dlbeursete                4llj51.   1150.53   1192.73  1M1.71  t3l2.21  1320.2M  4355.)   (246.7)  430.J3 ln-Qurated PriWte D                          200.m/
?la?llo                    (3.03   t46.21    (65.01  4151.0)  4121.51  I166.61  t163.03   (224.61  1239.01 Total Outstanding mnd Dleburud            2.954.0/
Other It_ e. n .l.            45.4    15.5       79.5    46.5   236.6    21.7   *60.1         22.3   -13.1  MST SIRVICE RATIO FCR 3964
Chane  In Not Ramer
I. * lerase1                 43.2   -71.2      55.1     57.5   1171.    150.9   310.6    352.7   154.7 PRblie  0It. includin  g ureutaadcl               32.3
lbn-uareetaed PCIvote  bt                     2.9
0re.s Reaervee                16S.0   224.0    1m.    339.1   402.5    55.5"   156.3    195.1   266.0  Total Owtste.lng and Dlabwraddl                     35.2
Not Roe"re.                   -11.0    10.2    -54.9  -122.4  -240.2  -39.1  -616.1   -406.9  -5)5.90t
Peol sad Related MaterlIls
Iepoe?I                    170.0   176.7    199.0   314.9   445.8   497.4   44695    461.1    369  InIDI  LEu 1 INr0  tOc_ar 31. 1943               USlS Mllioon
Lupo-te                      -.       --        -        -       .-       -        -         -        _
bItetaedIg md Olsalid                        172.0
-ladisborsd                                  104.6
Owtatanding Including  mdIlhread             276.6
a/ Est lmat
Include arers an tLTD. bwt dom not ncluet   rta             lltItle of COntral Omsk.
melun- and lOng-4te  only.
Doe not Include ehort-te_e deb? or Cntrel lnau   labilltlee.
/ Asouf ODc_eber 31. 1944.
S



- 24 -                                    Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF B1  GBDPlP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REM LIC
A.      STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT (as March 31, 1985)
Loan or
Credit                                                    US$ million
Number    Year   Borrower              Purpose      Amount (Less cancellation)
Bank    IDA     Undis.
Seven loans and three credits fully disbursed        113.8   22.1a/    -
1655-DO   1979   Dominican Republic  Irrigation II  27.0               16.6
1699-DO   1979   Central Bank         Tourism II      25.0             10.1
1760-DO   1979   State Sugar Council Sugar Rehab.   35.0               31.3
1784-DO   1980   Dominican Republic  Highways II    35.0                0.5
2023-DO   1981   Dominican Republic  Coffee and
Cocoa Rehab.   24.0             17.1
2104-DO   1982   Dominican Republic  Sites and
Services       25.4             22.2
2292-DO   1983   Dominican Republic  Sto. Domingo       -                -
Municipalitybf
2369-DO   1983   Dominican Republic  Itabo
Engineering     3.8              1.7
Total                              289.0   22.1
of which has been repaid            35.3    0.5
Total now outstanding               253.7   21.6
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA    253.7   21.6a/
Total Undisbursed                                     99.5
a! With exchange adjustment.
b/ Cancelled July 13, 1984.



-25-                                Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. *STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTNENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                   Type of     Amount in US$ Million
Year          Borrower                  Business     Loan  Equity    Total
1971    Cementos Nacionales, S.A.    Construction
Material       6.0   1.7       7.7
1978    Financiera Empresarial, S.A  Industrial
Credit        3.0   -          3.0 a/
1983    Prodtuctora Nacional de
Algodon.                      Cotton
Cultivation   4.0   1.0        5.0
1984    Compania Dominicana de        Noney and
Leasing, S.A.                Capital
Market         3.0   0.2       3.2
Total Gross Commitments                     16.0   2.9       18.9
Less Repayments and
Cancellations                              7.4   -          7.4
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                    8.6   2.9       11.5
Totv' Undisbursed including
Participants Portion                         4.9   0.3        5.2
a/ Cancelled



- 26 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Project Preparation:
Subsector Study Mission Departure                February 1984
Project Prepared by INFOTEP/Bank                 June 1984
Appraisal Mission Departure                      October 1984
Confirmation of Government's
Request Received                                February 1985
(b)  Negotiations Completed:                          April 16, 1985
(c)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                      October 1985
II.  Special Conditions
1.   Condition of Loan Effectiveness: Execution of a financing
agreement, acceptable to the Bank, by which the loan proceeds are
made available as a grant by the Borrower to the Beneficiary (para
57).
2.   Project Conditions:
(a) Guidelines for the establishment of sectoral technical
advisory committees at the regional level would be submitted
to the Bank for comment not later than June 30, 1986
and promptly thereafter such committees would be
established (para 33);
(b) An action plan for upgrading the quality and extending the use
of the collaborating institutions would be submitted to the
Bank for comment by March 31, 1986 and promptly thereafter
implemented (para 34);
(c)  The result of the studies concerning training in the informal
sector included in the project, would be presented to the Bank
for comments and discussion by December 31, 1987 and promptly
thereafter implemented (para 51);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(C)  An action plan plan to increase by about 20 percent INFOTEP's
income between 1985 and 1989 by improving the efficiency in
collecting the payroll levy would be submitted to the Bank for
comment by December 31, 1986 and promptly thereafter
implemented (para 59); and
(e)   INFOTEP would maintain separate entries in its annual
v                     operating budget for contributions to other vocational
training agencies, and would earmark a portion of its annual
operating budget for these activities, which portion would
rise to 30 percent by December 31, 1989, according to a plan
identifying seasures to be taken to that effect, which the
Government will prepare and submit to the Bank for coments by
June 30, 1986 and promptly thereafter implement (para 69).
1I



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
METHODS OF PROCUREMENT BY PROJECT CATEGORY
(US$ thousands)
Project Category            ICB       LCB        OTHER   N.A.     TOTAL COSTS
Civil Works              2,383                                    2,383
Equipment                3,255       433        371               4,059
Furniture                             116                           116
Experts                                         678                 678
Fellowships                                     710                 710
Local Personnel                                        163          163
Studies                                                119          119
Program Administration                                 143          143
8,371



IBRO 18817
'I A,IDni.ic Ocaga
n                srr  -               ,,      ,      ,    -~~ew    PUETOK *t ,*f*  r)                                                                                       .4lncim
.~~~~~~~~. Xa~                               ERTv> /Tic Euain  rjc
:  . Cotlo Itolo  ;   XEr uvib                                                        iilr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OACA  AII
TI                                                                                                      Gw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aihiu  SeW
-- i,                                                            Z~z ~ ~~;M '                                                                                 - a  - -
hhode  I    O~X...I                                                             ';L4 o.     ~A- 
LaPulokwo       SA TIAG3C                                                                                                                      6~
!r,                                       \7,A  SANCHEZ                                                                                          -        -- i
Ito,     R\   O RIGUEZ                                                                                           Lm Taiu,mo
~~ t8*RAMONA ~ ~    ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        AM
cat'rb,  A Ni~    ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~~rhr EuatonPojc
72'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Voaioa Trinn Cetr    -A C
TE _                                                                                  X
19.  d* foig.as                                                                             JP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rito
1.0         A~0 20 3    0   0*                                   Awat
5 A N   j 'j A NICLOilNS-                                                      Rer
.01                                            A~~~~~~_ -gas  SBE Bc~m
t__                                         I              MAYON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACM16



