Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24406
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22680; IDA-22681)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$125 MILLION
AND
A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF US$33 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR THE THIRD POWER PROJECT
June 27, 2002
Africa Energy Team
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
Ush 1790 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.369 = SDR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30 (MEMD) Jan I - Dec 31 (UEB)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          =      African Development Bank
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA          =      Canadian International Development Association
DANIDA        =      Danish International Development Agency
DCA           =      Development Credit Agreement
DRB           =      Disputes Review Board
DRIC          =      Divestiture and Reform Implementation Committee
EIB           =      European Investment Bank
ERA           =      Electricity Regulatory Agency
GOU           =      Government of Uganda
ICB           =      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  Intemational Development Association
IPP           =      Independent Power Producer
MEMD          =      Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
MIS                  Management Information System
MNR           =      Ministry of Natural Resources (now MEMD)
MFED          =      Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoJ           =      Ministry of Justice
NDF           =      Nordic Development Fund
NGO           =      Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD         =      Norwegian Agency for Development Assistance
NTC           =      Norwegian Trade Council
ODA           =      Overseas Development Agency
OF            =      Owen Falls Power Plant (now Nalubaale)
OFE           =      Owen Falls Extension Power Plant (now Kiira)
PPF           =      Project Preparation Facility
PTC           =      Privatization Technical Committee
PURSP         =      Public Utilities Reform Support Project
SAR           =      Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA          =      Swedish International Development Agency
UEB           =      Uganda Electricity Board
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
URU           =      Utility Reform Unit



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                                   0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)          =           0.386 square miles
1 megawatt (MW)                                1,000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                           1 million kilowatt hours
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director for Uganda:  Judy M. O'Connor, AFC04
Sector Manager/Director:  M. Ananda Covindassamny, AFTEG
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:  Reynold Duncan, AFTEG






UGANDA
UG POWER m
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                14
10. Additional Information                                                         14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              25
Annex 8. Uganda's Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization Strategy            26
Annex 9. Partner Comments                                                          36
IBRD MAP #22738 - Uganda Third Power Project






| Project ID: P002929                                     Project Name: UG POWER III
Team Leader: Reynold Duncan                              TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: UG POWER III                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-22680;
IDA-22681
Country/Department: UGANDA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: PH - Hydro
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/07/1988                             Effective:                    09/24/1992
Appraisal:  06/29/1990                               MTR:
Approval:  06/13/1991                              Closing:                     12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Uganda/Uganda Electricity Board
Other Partners: AfDB, DANIDA, EIB, NDF, NORAD, NTC
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Judy M. O'Connor                          Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:      M. Ananda Covindassamy                    Robert E. Hindle
Team Leader at ICR:  Reynold Duncan                            Anthony E. Sparkes
ICR Primary Author:  Reynold Duncan; Karen T.
Rasmussen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to: (i) build upon the rehabilitation work under the Second Power Project, and (ii)
expand Uganda's hydro-resources and its transmission and distribution system to provide least-cost,
reliable electricity to a larger segment of the population. Its third aim was to improve the power sector's
efficiency, in particular Uganda Electricity Board's financial situation, through policy reforms, institutional
strengthening and establishment of cost-reflective tariffs. This report reviews the Power III Project and the
Supplemental Credit for the project which were approved in June 1991 and January 2000, respectively.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no changes to the original objectives of the Project, except that the Government determined that
the best way to improve power sector efficiency was to unbundle and privatize Uganda Electricity Board
(UEB), the power utility. To accomplish this, a technical assistance component, including the recruitment
of transaction advisors, was added as part of the supplemental credit (see para. 3.4). Furthermore, since
the Government decided to involve the private sector in power generation, technical assistance for legal
advisors and for negotiations with the AES Corporation, the private project sponsor of the Bujagali
Hydropower Project, was provided under the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD)
component.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were:
*   Owen Falls Extension (in mid-2000, the Government renamed Owen Falls Extension (OFE) to the
Kiira Power Plant, and Owen Falls to Nalubaale), consisting of civil works and spillway, electrical and
mechanical equipment, and engineering supervision;
*   Technical Assistance to UEB and the MEMD;
*   Feasibility study for the Next Major Hydropower Site;
*   Dam Remedial Works;
*   Transmission and Distribution; and
*   Repayment of the Project Preparation Facility.
The estimated total project cost was US$335 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components remained unchanged, apart from adding a technical assistance component (Power
Sector Reform) for the unbundling and divestiture of UEB and increasing the scope of the transmission and
distribution component to avoid supply bottlenecks. At appraisal, it had been recommended that the
Government obtain additional funding amounting to about US$45 million from bilateral donors for
transmission and distribution. The supplemental credit, approved on January 20, 2000, funded the Sector
Reform, OFE civil works' cost overruns, and the Dam Remedial Works at Owen Falls.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
When IDA recommenced its involvement in Uganda in the mid- 1980s, the severe deterioration of power
sector infrastructure was identified as a serious obstacle to the revival of the commodity-producing sectors.
The Government began to prepare a power generation project in 1988 with IDA's assistance. Three
important aspects reviewed during project preparation and appraisal and discussed below in more detail
are: (a) the hydrological aspects, the state of Owen Falls Dam and the proposed technical configuration of
Owen Falls Extension; (b) UEB's capacity to implement a project of this size and nature; and (c) UEB's
financial situation.
-2-



Technical Considerations
Nine preparatory studies were carried out on the feasibility of the extension of the existing Owen Falls
Plant. The large number of studies was required due to uncertainties regarding the long term hydrology of
Lake Victoria and the Victoria Nile, and in order to ensure an optimal design and size of the proposed
power plant. The studies considered several alternative configurations and sizes of the power plant.
IDA appraisal took place in June 1990. In January 1991, the conclusion of a review by independent
hydrological experts of the May 1990 hydrological risk assessment determined that the spillway capacity
for Owen Falls Dam was inadequate given the issues related to its structural integrity: without increased
spillway capacity, the Owen Falls Dam would be physically endangered. At Government/IDA negotiations
in February 1991, it was agreed that additional spillway capacity would be accommodated by increasing
the capacity of the proposed canal feeding Owen Falls Extension (consultants analyzed eight alternative
spillway schemes). The additional spillway capacity at Owen Falls Extension aimed to protect the Owen
Falls Dam against overtopping and possible failure in a major flood event (one in 100 years). The
consequences of a dam failure at Owen Falls would have been catastrophic, not only for Uganda, but for
numerous downstream riparian states along the Nile River which would have been affected by the estimated
five to eight meters of Lake Victoria discharging into the Victoria Nile. The description of the Project in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) referred to plant capacity expansion by at least 102MW
(3x34MW) and civil works to accommodate a plant capacity of 170MW.
With the increased size of the canal and thus water flows, UEB wanted to review expanding the
configuration of the powerhouse shell to accommodate additional generating sets (over and beyond the
3x34MW units). This additional modification was accommodated with regard to the civil works
(5x40MW) but not with respect to the number of generating units because: (i) further detailed assessments
would be required to justify a large powerhouse configuration; and (ii) it would have resulted in a
significant funding gap for the Project.
In March 1991, IDA commented on the consultants' draft addendum to the feasibility report (March 1991)
concerning the spillway configuration, including the economics of enlarging the power station to house five
units rather than three. The study also confirmed that it was not economic to install more than three units
initially. Of the several configurations reviewed, the two optimal powerhouse configurations were
Sx34MW units or 5x4OMW units. The differences in Net Present Value terms between these two options
was negligible, and the consultants recommended the 5x40MW configuration because it would provide
greater peaking capacity and flexibility for operation and maintenance. IDA: (i) confirmed its concurrence
on the recommended spillway configuration (a conventional spillway alongside the powerhouse); and (ii)
recommended that UEB's consultants investigate the cost and viability of increasing the civil works at
Owen Falls Extension to accommodate two additional generating units, as well as the economic
justification. The project was approved by the Board on June 13, 1991.
At a co-financiers' meeting in November 1991, given the reasons for the cracking of the concrete structure
of the existing power station (caused by expansion of the concrete induced by a chemical reaction),
installation of 5x4OMW units was recommended. These changes in the Project's configuration were
technical in nature, consistent with the objectives of the project as defined in the DCA, and motivated by
safety concerns and opportunities to enhance power supply. They were beneficial to Uganda because: (i)
they would provide flexibility in power generation capacity; (ii) the revised approach minimized costs to
meet demand and hydrological risks; and (iii) dam failure risks were minimized for Uganda and other
riparian states. Nevertheless, measures were also taken to strengthen the existing dam.
- 3 -



At appraisal, the transmission and distribution component included the extension of Owen Falls Switchyard
and construction of a double-circuit 132 kV line from the switchyard to Kampala required to evacuate the
additional power to the main load center. It was recognized that additional investments would be required
to reinforce and rehabilitate the overall transmission and distribution system to avoid supply bottlenecks.
Since this work was not on the critical path, the Government agreed to seek bilateral funding in parallel,
while dam construction proceeded.
Concerning the environmental and social aspects of the Project, an Environmental Assessment and
Resettlement Plan were prepared (see Annex 17 of the SAR for a summary of the Environmental
Assessment). It should be noted that since an Initial Executive Project Summary was prepared in advance
of the cut-off date of October 15, 1989, this Project was not required to meet to the Bank's Operational
Directive 4.00 on Environmental Assessment. Receipt of a resettlement plan was required prior to IDA
credit negotiations, and implementation of the plan was a condition of disbursement for the civil works
component of the Project. In March 1992, the Relocation and Compensation Plan Report was finalized,
and by end March 1993, most of the payments had been made to nearly all families to be affected by the
construction works. A resettlement audit is being carried-out under the Power IV project to follow up on
the outcome of the resettlement program implemented under the project.
Institutional Capacitv Considerations
Because there was a recognition that the capacity within UEB to implement such a large project needed
strengthening, measures were taken to create a project management unit for construction of Owen Falls
Extension. This unit was reinforced by an international expert who filled the position of Project
Coordinator. Furthermore, the post of Managing Director of UEB was filled by a Ugandan with
international experience, who had been formerly employed by the African Development Bank.
Because of the importance of the safety aspects of the two dams and the need for project oversight, the
following were conditions of effectiveness of the credit: the Government would have: (i) carried out a
review of the dam design and construction, taking into account modem design standards; (ii) agreed to the
recommendations regarding additional dam safety measures and the method to be used for strengthening the
existing dam; (iii) prepared bidding documents for UEB to contract out the dam strengthening work; (iv)
recruited a Panel of Dam Experts (POE) with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
and (v) the POE would have reviewed the consultants' proposals for dam safety measures and the technical
and safety aspects of the proposed project's design. Finally, the POE was to advise on the instrumentation
and frequency of inspections required for the existing dam and project civil works.
As part of the appraisal process, a comprehensive review of UEB's management and organizational
structure was undertaken by consultants. Weaknesses in planning, management information reporting,
financial control and accounting were identified. With assistance from the Overseas Development Agency
(ODA) and the African Development Fund (AfDB), expatriate staff were recruited to fill the following
higher level positions: Financial Manager, Supplies Manager, Training Officer, Chief Services Manager,
Corporate Planner and Chief Manager of MIS. Technical training was also planned for employees who
would be responsible for operating and maintaining OFE and the distribution and transmission systems.
UEB's Financial Management and Performance
At the time of project preparation, the financial performance of UEB was poor. There were two main
financial conditions of effectiveness of the project: (i) an initial increase in the average electricity tariff,
from US$0.048 per kWh to not less than US$0.072 per kWh (in line with the marginal cost of supply); and
(ii) instituting appropriate adjustments (increases) in the book value of UEB's assets. Other financial
covenants included in the credit were: (i) annual adjustments to the net book value of UEB's assets; (ii)
- 4 -



commencing January 1994, UEB would raise tariffs by 5% per annum in US Dollar terms, to keep pace
with international inflation; and (iii) UEB would earn an annual rate of return of not less than 8% of the
average current net value of its revalued fixed assets beginning in 1993. In addition, institution-building
and technical assistance were provided to help improve UEB's operational and financial performance
(financial control and management systems, modern methods of routine training, etc.)
The project was properly prepared, with the required technical, economic, financial, and institutional
matters taken into account. In summary, the Quality at Entry was satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Physical Outcomes
The outcome of expanding and improving the reliability of power supply was successful, although delays
were experienced in commissioning of the Owen Falls Extension hydropower plant. Many of the delays
were beyond the control of UEB or the Government. They included the termination of the original civil
works' contract because of poor performance, and the impact of El Nino which led to heavy rains and
flooding (see Section 5.1). As of the closing date of the project, the volume of energy sent out from the
Owen Falls Complex exceeded SAR estimates by 22.4%, and domestic electricity sales were 8.8% above
SAR estimates (see Annex I for performance outcomes). In addition, the new units have operated at a
plant factor of over 90%. Nonetheless, the delays in commissioning of OFE led to substantial load shedding
throughout the country which became noticeable as early as 1996. Load shedding also occurred because the
demand for power (which was higher than SAR estimates) has outstripped electricity supply in the past
several years. UEB load shed about 88 GWh in 2001. Load shedding is expected to continue with demand
growth until the Bujagali Hydropower Plant is commissioned in 2006, although it will be reduced with the
installation of units 13, 14 and 15.
Strengthening of the Owen Falls Dam was also delayed because of a funding gap that occurred due to the
increase in cost of the OFE civil works contract (see paras 5.1 and 5.3) which had to be re-bid when the
original civil works was terminated. The remedial works contract was eventually funded from the
supplemental credit, was successfully completed, and the dam now meets international dam safety
standards.
Power Sector Efficiency
In spite of substantial technical assistance from the AfDB, institution-strengthening efforts and attempts to
improve UEB's operational and financial performance fell short of expectations. Technical assistance
aimed to help UEB improve its financial management and accounting systems, including billing and
collections, and to reduce system losses. In mid- 1998, the Government took an unprecedented step to
rectify UEB's poor management performance and fired nine of its top officers including the Managing
Director. A qualified management team, including an expatriate Managing Director, was put in place by
mid-1999 to manage UEB on a commercial basis. In parallel, the Government moved to address the
fundamental problems of the power sector through a comprehensive reform program. This included
Cabinet approval of the power sector reform program in June 1999, the promulgation of a new electricity
act in November 1999, establishment of an autonomous regulatory body in April 2000, the unbundling of
UEB into generation, transmission and distribution companies in, March 2001, and rebalancing and raising
electricity tariffs in line with long run marginal costs effective June 1, 2001. In November 2001, the
Govemment took steps to rectify the problem of Govemment agency billing arrears: the Govemment
implemented a Commitment Control System under which funds budgeted for electricity supply cannot be
re-allocated to other expenditures. Annex 8 provides details of the measures taken under the Government's
- 5 -



power sector reform program. While power sector efficiency and performance began to improve under
UEB's new management team, since separation of the business units, there has been some deterioration in
performance improvements. The full benefits of a reformed sector are anticipated to begin later in 2002
when the distribution and generation concessionaires have been mobilized. The project was thus an
essential element that supported the long term power sector reform strategy which, by and large, is on
course.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Owen Falls Extension. The generation capacity installed under the Project is 80MW, and not 102MW as
initially envisaged in the SAR. This is due to the re-configuration of the power plant (to 5x40MW units) to
optimize the additional water flows to accommodate additional generating sets (over and beyond the
3x34MW units originally envisaged in the SAR), and phasing installation of the remaining 3x4OMW units
of new generation capacity, for a total installed capacity at OFE of 200MW (see para. 3.5). The third unit
at OFE (40MW) was installed with funding from Norway and Sweden and commissioned in May 2002.
The minor civil works required was financed by IDA and UEB. The remaining two units (2x40MW) are
expected to be financed under the Power IV Project (Credit 3545-UG) which was approved in July 2001;
they are scheduled for commissioning by end 2004.
The physical objectives of installing a new hydropower plant capable of generating 200MW of power and
installing 2x4OMW of the 5x40MW units were achieved. The number of customers served with electricity
increased from 105,569 in 1991 to about 200,187 by end 2001, an increase of about 90% over the period.
Transmission & Distribution. This component aimed to rehabilitate the transmission and distribution
system and this objective was achieved. At appraisal, it was realized that not only the transmission lines
from OFE to the main load centers needed expansion, but several other lines and substations needed to be
reinforced or rehabilitated. The original sub-component, extension of Owen Falls Switchyard and
construction of about 80 km of a 132 kV double-circuit line from Owen Falls to Lugogo, was completed
with funding from DANIDA. Funding for additional transmission and distribution investments (see Annex
1) was provided by IDA, EIB, and NORAD and completed by the closing date of the Project.
Next Maior Site Studv. The AfDB financed the Hydropower Development Master Plan prepared by Rust
Kennedy and Donkin which was finalized November 1997. The Government accepted the findings and
recommendations of this study, and in 2000 decided to proceed with the proposed Bujagali Hydropower
Project sponsored by the AES Corporation.
Technical Assistance to UEB. This included institutional building and training, the provision for a
twinning arrangement with an established overseas utility and the provision of support to the OFE
implementation unit. An expatriate project manager was recruited for the implementation unit for the
duration of the Project and provided the needed support to local staff. While the twinning arrangements did
not materialize, twenty-seven employees received hands-on training under the OFE contracts and 52
received classroom training. Several of the employees trained are now responsible for operating and
maintaining the OFE power plant.
Power Sector Reform. Having concluded that UEB's institution building efforts would not significantly
improve UEB's performance, the Government decided to unbundle the utility and privatize distribution and
generation facilities. An assessment of power sector structure options was carried out under the Enterprise
Development Credit, while the Transaction Advisor and Investment Banker were financed out of the Power
III supplemental credit. The bidding process for.the concessions has not yet been completed. Delays have
been due to general over-optimism in the time it would take to complete the restructuring process. Also, the
-6 -



bidders requested a longer time to review the bid documents and draft legal agreements and to complete
their due-diligence in UEB, and an extra month for submitting their final bids. The award of the two
concessions is expected to be announced in August 2002. The remaining Transaction Advisor and
Investment Banker costs will be funded out of the Public Utilities Reform Support Project.
Technical Assistance to MEMD. Legal Advisory Services for the Bujagali Hydropower Project were
successfully completed and consisted of: (i) development of the term sheets and financial models for the
Project; (ii) preparation of a White Paper on the outstanding debt position of the power sector; (iii) review
of the feasibility studies undertaken by Independent Power Producers (IPPs) at the Bujagali, Kalagala and
Karuma sites; (iv) negotiations of the Implementation Agreement and Power Purchase Agreement between
the Government of Uganda and AES for the Bujagali Hydropower Project; and (v) training of counterpart
personnel in IPP development (a total of 7 Government and UEB staff received training). Under the
capacity building component, a total of eight MEMD staff received training in various fields, including
Energy Studies, Business Administration and Environmental Studies. Several others undertook short
courses, seminars and workshops.
Preliminary energy audits were conducted in six industries. The advice and recommendations on energy
management and use were adopted. As a result of this preliminary work, many industries and commercial
buildings have embraced energy management. Several detailed audits have subsequently been performed,
with impressive results, including with regard to a cement factory and a brewery.
Activities under the Household Energy Initiatives sub-component centered on the dissemination of
improved efficiency cook stoves in the rural areas. Practical skills in the design, construction and operation
of these stoves were imparted to selected women and youth leaders in the various districts by the MEMD
teams through Training of Trainers workshops. A total of 200 women and youth were trained in the design
and construction of improved efficiency stoves. Those trained were to disseminate the technology to others
resulting in a multiplier effect. Based on this work, and further support from the Dutch Government, some
12,000 improved efficiency stoves have been built resulting in large savings in wood fuel use.
Dam Strengthening: This component consisted of studies to determine the rehabilitation needs of the Owen
Falls Dam and implementation of these recommendations including: (i) drilling and grouting to minimize
seepage; (ii) excavation of inspection galleries; and (iii) construction of a concrete buttress. Some minor
seepage remains, which is normal. The POE's report confirmed the outcome of the rehabilitation work was
satisfactory.
Sectoral Environmental Assessment of Hydropower Development: The SAR provided terms of reference
for this study (Annex 18 of SAR), with emphasis on the major Victoria Nile hydropower sites in Uganda
and reference to geothermal and fossil fuel options as part of the analysis of alternatives. US$1.1 million
was provided in the project financing plan for this purpose. UEB was to have responsibility for
conducting, integrating and coordinating the sectoral environmental assessment. The terms of reference
recommended that an Inter-Agency Advisory Panel, chaired by UEB and including representatives of
various government and non-governmental agencies, determine the scope of the sectoral environmental
assessment, assign responsibilities and coordinate and supervise its preparation. While the approach of an
Inter-Agency Advisory Panel was not adopted, the objectives and substantive concerns of the sectoral
environmental assessment were addressed through the following studies: the Assessment of Generation
Alternatives (Acres International, May 2000), the Hydropower Development Masterplan (Rust Kennedy
and Donkin, November 1997) financed by the AfDB, three individual environmental assessments for the
Karuma Falls site (Norplan A.S., 1999), Kalagala (Lahmeyer, 1998) and Bujagali (WS Atkins, March
2001), as well as the following two sector-level assessments which examined the environmental effects of
- 7 -



the major Victoria Nile hydropower sites in Uganda: Assessment of Generation Alternatives, Uganda, Final
Report (Acres International, May 2000) and the Victoria Nile Strategic Impact Assessment Uganda (ESG
International, January 2000) financed by trust funds.
Resettlement
A resettlement plan was prepared in 1992 and resettlement of 330 households was implemented under the
Project. Review and supervision reports were prepared in 1993. A resettlement audit was carried out in
2001 under the Power IV Project and the results were reviewed by a mission in 2002.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return of the Project has been calculated following the underlying assumptions in the
SAR, and is based on the Owen Falls Extension and transmission and distribution development. It is
estimated at 13.7% (see Annex 3), compared to an appraisal estimate of 16.5%. The disparity from the
SAR projection is due to the delay in completion of OFE and the high level of technical losses which was
not reduced over the implementation period.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The rate of return on revalued fixed assets was below the projected SAR figure of 8% throughout the
project implementation period. Under the direction of the new management team during 1999-2000, there
was a marked improvement in the rates of returns which were 6.3% and 5.6% respectively.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the Project and other donor assistance have expanded Uganda's power facilities, it has failed to
improve power sector efficiency and performance. UEB has been unable to generate an adequate cash flow
to cover its expenses, debt service, and to meet a portion of its investment requirements, mainly because of
poor collection rates and high system losses. Even though there were improvements in UEB's performance
during 1999-2000 under a new management team, the Government recognized that major efficiency
improvements and expansion of access to electricity could be better accomplished through implementing a
comprehensive power sector reform program which placed the power sector under private management and
operating on commercial principles. With financial assistance under several IDA credits (including the
Power III Project), the Government has taken significant steps to make the power sector financially viable
and efficient and to attract private capital in its management and operations. The specific institutional
development impact attributed to the Power III Project, including financial support from the Enterprise
Reform credit and the Public Utilities Reform Support Project (PURSP) credit for the power sector reform
programs include: (i) passage of a new electricity act in November 1999; (ii) the establishment of an
independent regulatory body in April 2000; and (iii) the unbundling of UEB into generation, transmission
and distribution companies in March 2001. The bid documents were issued in April 2002 to the list of
pre-qualified firms for the distribution and generation concessions.
It is fair to say that this project provided the impetus, the opportunity for policy dialogue and the financial
resources to assist the Government to take the significant steps needed to place the power sector on a sound
financial footing and to improve its efficiency. While the transformation has not yet been completed, and
thus the full benefits have not yet been reaped by Uganda and the power consumer, the policy and
regulatory framework changes adopted to date are significant and far-reaching, giving a high probability
that the achievements made under the project will be sustained.
Defining the policy framework, the process and the actual implementation of the Government's
comprehensive power sector reform program have spanned many years, and have been an essential element
of several IDA credits. also, the Government's ownership and donor community's financial support for the
- 8 -



reform program have been critical. It should be recognized that the reform programn could not have been
effectively accomplished through one single project intervention.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Heavy rainfall due to El Nino during the 1997/98 rainy season was a major factor that delayed completion
of the OFE. The delivery of material and equipment from the port of Mombasa to the Project site was slow
due to damaged roads and bridges. So too was implementation progress at the Project site. These factors
became a source of several claims by the civil works contractor and resulted in cost overruns which were
funded from the supplemental credit.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The three main factors subject to Government control were: (i) oversight of UEB management and its
financial and operational performance; (ii) the lack of timely payment and/or nonpayment by Government
agencies of their electricity bills; and (iii) electricity tariff levels.
UEB was a 100 percent public-owned company managed by a Board of Directors with significant
Government of Uganda representation. UEB's operational and financial performance was poor: system
losses were high (greater than 30%), collections were low (about 75% of sales in the mid-I 990s), UEB did
not honor its debt service obligations to the Government and others, and adequate emphasis was not placed
on monitoring and curbing UEB expenditures. Yet, proper and timely action to instill commercial business
and management practices and accountability were not taken by UEB's owners. Also, Government
influence in investment decisions, personnel deployment and other areas hindered the development of
performance incentives necessary to improve the quality and reliability of electricity service. It should be
noted, however, in 1998, a then recently appointed UEB Board of Directors sought to take action against
UEB management for dubious procurement and other weak management practices. It was during this time
that the Government recognized the need for fundamental reform of the power sector.
UEB has experienced chronic problems with its billing and collection systems and customer management.
There remain some difficulties in collecting from specific Government institutions (the armed services and
police) despite the implementation of a Commitment Control system whereby Government entities cannot
use funds budgeted for electricity bills to pay for other expenditures.
Concerning tariff policy, in accordance with the credit agreements, UEB was to adjust its tariffs to an
average of US$0.072 cents per kWh by no later than January 1, 1993, and, thereafter, adjust the average
retail tariff annually by an amount that would result in an annual 5% increase over the average retail tariff
in US Dollar terms. UEB raised its average retail tariff to about US$0.073 per kWh in January 1993 as
agreed. There were, however, no annual increases to the average retail electricity tariff until June 2001 for
the following two reasons: (i) during the mid-1990s, the Uganda Shilling appreciated against the US
Dollar, to the extent that at one point the average retail tariff was around US$0.10 per kWh; and (ii) during
the second half of the 1990s, UEB began to loadshed, while at the same time the Uganda Shilling
depreciated against the US Dollar. The weekly scheduled outages throughout the country had led to public
discontent over the availability and reliability of power supply, making tariff increases difficult. In June
2000, 80MW of generation at Owen Falls Extension was commissioned, while the average electricity tariff
had dropped to US$0.056 per kWh.
In April 2000, the Electricity Regulatory Authority was established and becarne responsible for reviewing
the adequacy and level of tariffs. With the increase in reliability and supply of electricity, effective June
-9-



2001, the Electricity Regulatory Authority raised the average electricity tariff to about US$0.095 per kWh
to ensure full cost recovery and the fnancial viability of the power sector. The new tariff schedule
removed the heavy cross-subsidy to domestic consumers, which had been bome by commercial consumers,
but maintained the lifeline tariff with some cross-subsidization from other consumer categories. In
September 2001, following consultations with the donor community, the Govemment laid out a financial
restructuring plan for the power sector. It involved the conversion of outstanding debt service payments
and a portion of UEB's debt to equity. Subsequent to the electricity tariff increase, the Govemment
announced that a portion of the onlent Government debt to UEB will be converted from debt to equity,
which will provide some tariff relief to consumers from the published tariff schedule.
It should be noted that while Govenmment inaction or interference in day-to-day operations of UEB hindered
its efficiency and performance, in 1998 the Government became the driving force behind the
implementation of a comprehensive power sector reform program involving promulgation of a new
electricity act, the establishment of the ERA and the unbundling of UEB and the concessioning of its
distribution and generation facilities to the private sector (see Annex 8). Also, in November 2001, the
Government implemented a Commitment Control System as a means to reduce delinquent payment for
electricity consumption by Government agencies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While there was Govemment interference in the day-to-day operations of UEB and some Govemment
institutions did not pay their bills, there were several areas in which UEB had the capacity to improve its
performance. UEB's efforts, such as those to reduce losses and improve collections from other customers,
were sporadic and not sustained. Generally, UEB was not run as a commercial business with adequate
controls and financial and other management systems in place.
One major issue that delayed completion of OFE was replacement of the civil works' contractor. The
original civil works' contract was terminated in September 1996, with the Bank's agreement. This was due
to the contractor's poor performance, and after several efforts had been made to assist the contractor,
including the payment of an additional advance. The slow progress and the time it took to hire a new
contractor caused about a two-year delay and led to an increase in the cost of the civil works component of
about US$26 million. The pre-qualification information should have been better scrutinized by UEB and
IDA to ensure that contractors had adequate qualifications and intemational experience.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was US$321 million, or about 96% of the appraisal estimate. Of this amount,
US$153 million was provided by IDA (from an original credit of US$125 and US$33 million for a
supplemental credit), about US$26 million by the AfDBs, US$35 million by NDF/SIDA/BITS, US$40
million by NORAD/NTC, US$20 million by DANIDA, US$4 million by the Swiss, US$14 million by EIB
and US$29 million by UEB for local costs.
The original credit was fully utilized, while only 76% of the supplemental credit was utilized. The
remaining balance of US$7.3 million will be cancelled. The supplemental credit was requested to finance
cost overruns arising from termination of the original civil works contract for OFE and severe weather
conditions thereafter (see paras 3.4 and 5.1), when funding originally expected from the Islamic
Development Bank did not materialize.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The probability that the achievements made under the Project, or those expected to accrue to power
- 1 0 -



consumers and the Government of Uganda are sustainable is likely because of: (i) the Government's
commitment to and ownership of the power sector reform program and the measures that have been
accomplished to date; (ii) the change in the policy environment (establishment of the ERA, increasing of
electricity tariffs to reflect the cost of supply including their rebalancing to remove cross subsidies, the
unbundling and planned privatization of distribution and generation facilities, etc.); (iii) the expected
improvements in operational and financial performance of the power sector, including the expansion of
services to a greater segment of the population; and (iv) the promotion of private sector involvement in the
financing, construction, management and ownership of the next large increment of power generation (the
Bujagali Hydropower Project).
Annex I provides operational statistics since commencement of the Project and shows an improvement in
performance since the interim management team came on board in 1999, although there has been some
performance slippages in 2001 after UEB was unbundled. The trend is expected to improve to an even
greater extent when the distribution and generation business units are concessioned to the private sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The construction of Owen Falls Extension and the dam safety remedial works at Owen Falls have been
successfully completed. These new generation units are operating at full capacity, and the operators and
maintenance team were provided training during construction and commissioning. Furthermore, all the
contracts had built-in maintenance clauses under which repairs were carried out by the contractors at no
cost to the generation company during the maintenance period. Most project activities have been integrated
into the regular operations of the unbundled power utility.
The power sector reform program is ongoing, with continued financial support being provided for under the
Fourth Power Project and the Public Utilities Reform Support Project. As of April 2002, a request for bids
for the generation and distribution concessions had been made to the pre-qualified firms. Selection of the
winning concessionaire is planned for August 2002. The concession contracts have built-in performance
benchmarks, in terms of operational and financial efficiencies as well as targets for the expansion of new
consumer connections.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. ) Lending:
A significant number of consultancy studies were carried out to identify and confirm the least-cost power
generation option for Uganda and the feasibility of the extension of the existing Owen Falls power plant.
This included several altemative configurations of the dam and sizes of the Owen Falls Extension power
plant. In addition to the technical aspects of the Project, adequate attention was paid to the economic,
institutional, financial and commercial aspects of the Project. The procurement, financial and project
management aspects were addressed during appraisal. The Bank's performance was therefore satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
On average, there were close to three supervision missions per year during the implementation period, in
addition to other power sector reform-related missions carried out in connection with the Enterprise
Development Project and the PURSP. The frequency of Bank missions and an appropriate skill mix helped
to provide timely consultation to UEB and the MEMD on the various implementation aspects of the
project.
The issue of poor performance of the first civil works contractor might have been avoided at the
pre-qualification stage if more stringent evaluation criteria had been adopted. Nevertheless, when it became



clear that the contractor was incapable of completing the work on time, the necessary action was taken by
the Government to terminate the contract and a swift response was provided by IDA, although UEB was
not able to draw on the performance bond. With better scrutiny by UEB and IDA at the review stage, this
problem could have been avoided.
Similarly, when it became apparent that UEB would not be able to make the necessary efficiency and
performance improvements on its own, IDA engaged the Government in discussions on the need for a
comprehensive power sector reform program which eventually led to the unbundling of UJEB and will
subsequently lead to the privatization of some of the business units. IDA agreed to finance the Transaction
Advisor and Investment Banker under the supplemental credit.
The Owen Falls civil works' contract was one of the first to have a Dispute Review Board (DRB). The
World Bank's aim in introducing the DRB was to provide timely resolution of disputes on the civil works
contract and to avoid the delays associated with arbitration. This, however, had mixed outcomes. First,
although there was some timely resolution of disputes, in most cases after several sittings of the DRB its
recommendations were not accepted by one party or the other. By the closing date of the credit, there were
still several claims that had not yet been settled. Since the contracts had not provided for amicable
settlement, these would still end in arbitration.
Although all the elements of a sectoral EIA were carried-out, the sectoral EIA was not implemented under
the project as originally planned (see para.4.2). In general, safeguard issues should have been given more
attention during project supervision.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Adequate teams were fielded during the preparation
phase and through appraisal and supervision. Particular attention was paid to the economic, technical and
safety aspects of the project and the Owen Falls Dam during project preparation and in the early stages of
supervision. Additional Bank missions under the Enterprise Reform Credit took place and the scope and
content of the power sector reform program were reviewed with Government, which led to the Cabinets
approval in June 1999 of a comprehensive power sector reform program and implementation timetable.
Also, there was good coordination with Power III Project co-financiers. When it became clear that donor
funding was not forthcoming, IDA moved quickly to prepare a supplemental credit which ensured adequate
funding to carry through the power sector reform program. Corrective action was taken when it became
apparent that the civil works' contractor did not have the capability to satisfactorily complete the civil
works' contract within a reasonable period of time.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government and UEB were assisted by consultants financed under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF), the Power II Project (Credit 1 560-UG) and from support from the Canadian International
Development Agency. UEB provided counterpart staff to the consultants. UEB and the Government were
actively involved in reviewing the consultant reports. The Borrower's contribution to project preparation
and design was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government, as the owner of UEB, had an indirect role in the implementation of the investment
components of the Project. The Central Tender Board played an effective role in ensuring that procurement
followed appropriate practices and was prompt in reaching decisions. Disbursement applications were also
processed in a timely fashion. More timely action to change the management of UEB and to reform the
- 12 -



sector could have avoided the poor performance that extended through most of the implementation period;
nevertheless, the required action was eventually taken. The Government's nonpayment or delayed payment
of its electricity bills to UEB also had a negative impact on UEB's performance.
Financial reporting and procurement by the MEMD were weak, and this has been taken into account in the
preparation of the Power IV Project: the appointment of a qualified project accountant to the MEMD's
Project Implementation Team, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, was a condition of credit
effectiveness. Also, the MEMD agreed to retain the services of a qualified project manager.
A Utility Reform Unit (URU) was established under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development,
which was responsible for the sector reform component and had staff dedicated to the Reform component,
including an advisor. Its performance was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
UEB established an implementing unit for the project and employed an experience Project Manager to head
it. The unit was also assisted by several consultants and a Panel of Experts. This arrangement ensured
effective coordination of the Project. However, more stringent pre-qualification for the civil works contract
would have eliminated the original contractor and would have avoided the two-year delay in completion of
the civil works.
UEB's financial performance was weak throughout most of the period. Although this can be attributed
partly to inadequate Government oversight through UJEB's Board of Directors and non-payment for
electricity consumption by some Government agencies, UEB's attempts were ineffective in reducing energy
losses, collecting revenues from other consumers and in expenditure control. Successes were achieved
when specific task teams were established, but the efforts were not sustained. As a result, the financial
covenant of 8% ROR on revalued fixed assets was not complied with during the implementation period.
Overall, UEB's implementation of the physical aspects of the project was satisfactory; the
institution-building component did not achieve improvements in UEB's operational and financial
performance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. Although there were some problems with
procurement during implementation, actions were taken to address the issues. Because improvements in
UEB's performance did not materialize, the Government decided to embark on a privatization program and
also to involve the private sector in the development, ownership and management of new generation
capacity.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    It is more efficient to initiate and implement measures to improve institutional and financial
performance in advance of major new investments. This would augur for implementing power
sector reform programs as a basis to underpin the financial viability and sustainability of the power
sector and proposed new investments.,
8.2    Government ownership of its power sector reform program is a critical underpinning to ensure its
successful and timely implementation.
8.3    The inclusion of the DRB should be reviewed as it could be counterproductive to the dispute
- 13 -



resolution process. The removal of amicable settlement with the introduction of the DRB could
also delay the resolution of disputes because if DRB's recommendation were to be rejected, the
next step would be arbitration.
8.4    Procurement capacity should be built prior to commencement of implementation in order to avoid
delays caused by poor procurement decisions, as was the case concerning the first civil works
contract for OFE. Such capacity need not be developed in-house but may be contracted out. The
preparation of the Power IV Project ensured that the Uganda Electricity Generating Company and
the MEMD had both adequate financial management and project management in place (recruitment
of a qualified accountant for the MEMD was a condition of credit effectiveness).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 9.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
On August 7, 2001, the Inspection Panel registered for inspection IPN Request RQO 1/3 concerning the
Third Power Project (Credit 2268-UG) fnanced by IDA and the Bujagali Hydropower Project which was
subsequently approved by a joint IDAIIFC meeting of the Executive Directors on December 18, 2001. The
Request was submitted by the National Association of Professional Environmentalists of Kampala, Uganda
Save Bujagali Crusade and other local institutions and individuals. The Notice of Registration from the
Inspection Panel listed a number of directives, policies and procedures with which IDA may not have
complied, including those on Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Indigenous Peoples,
Involuntary Resettlement, Safety of Dams, Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects,
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations, Poverty Reduction, Disclosure of Operational Information,
Project Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Supervision.
The Requesters stated that the failures and omissions of IDA in the design, appraisal, and implementation
of the Power III Project have materially affected the rights and interests of the Requesters and are likely to
jeopardize their future social, cultural, and environmental security. More specifically, the Requesters have
stated that the Owen Falls Extension and the construction of the proposed Bujagali Hydropower Project
have resulted, or may result, in social, economic and environmental harm to the local population. The
Requesters have also stated that they have been harmed or are likely to be harmed as a result of failure to
undertake an Environmental Assessment of the Owen Falls Extension; the lack of a cumulative
environmental assessment related to the dams already built, under construction and in the final stages of
design; inadequate involuntary resettlement (including compensation arrangements); inadequate
consultation, participation and disclosure of information; and lack of economic and technical analysis,
including lack of alternative economic analysis, especially in the case of the Owen Falls Extension.
On September 13, 2001, Management submitted its response to this Request on each of the questions
raised by the Requesters. With respect to the claims made, Management's view was that IDA had complied
with the applicable operational directives, policies and procedures, and has thus far applied them
adequately and with due diligence with regard to the environmental, social, cultural, economic, technical,
institutional and financial requirements of the Power III Project and its Supplemental Credit, the Power IV
- 14-



Project, and the proposed Bujagali Hydropower Project.
In mid-October 2001, the Inspection Panel informed the Board of Executive Directors that it recommended
carrying out a full inspection into the matters alleged by the Requesters. In mid-October 2001, the
Inspection Panel informed the Board of Executive Directors that it recommended carrying out a full
inspection into the maters alleged by the Requestors. On May 23, 2002, the Inspection Panel issued its
Report No. 23998. On June 7, 2002, IDA issued its Report and Recommendation in response to the
Inspection Panel Investigation Report, covering the Power II, Power IV and Bujagali Hydropower Projects
in Uganda. On June 17, 2002, the Board of the Executive Directors approved the Bank's action plan to
address areas where the Panel found that Bank policies and procedures were not fully complied with.
The main findings of the Inspection Panel with regard to the Power III Project may be summarized as
follows. The Panel concurred: (a) with the cautious and incremental approach the extension of Owen Falls
capacity; (b) that Management was in compliance with its policies on the safety of dams; and (c) that the
economic analysis was broadly in compliance with Bank guidelines. The Panel found that since the Bank's
safeguard policies or directives did not require a cumulative effects analysis, the Bank's actions were
consistent with policies. However, because the Sectoral Environmental Assessment was a Power IIn project
component, and the Bank failed to ensure that this was carried out, it was a reflection of inadequate
supervision under OD 13.05 on Project Supervision. (It should be noted that it was the Bank's view that
such an assessment was partially achieved through the Kennedy and Donkin Hydropower development
Master Plan dated November 1997 in connection with the Power III Project, and fully achieved with the
completion of the Acres Assessment of Generation Alternatives dated May 2000 carried out in connection
with the Bujagali Hydropower Project.) To rectify this matter, the Bank proposed to prepare an inclusive,
participatory and riparian-owned Strategic/Sectoral Social and Environmental Assessment as an element of
the Nile Basin Initiative. This assessment would also address future regional power options, and will
analyze and rank power options based upon multiple criteria such as: assessment of direct,
indirect/induced and cumulative impacts of multiple activities; additional costs and benefits through
multi-purpose use of storage reservoirs; risk of rainfall variability; and sharing of benefits at the local and
regional level. This study, estimated to cost US$1 million will be carried out over the next 18 months to
two years with grant funds.
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
-Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate.
Increased economic growth through the  Power generation increasing to 1570 GWh in Power generation increasing to 1575 GWH
provision of least-cost power generation.  2000.                           in 2001.
Electricity sales revenue of USh 111.7 billion Electricity sales revenue increasing to USh
in 2001.                             134.6 billion following tariff increase.
The 1991 SAR did not contain a performance indicator/log frame matrix. These tables present the main project
objectives and outputs, and are supplemented by the attached table highlighting projected versus actual UEB
Operational and Financial Indicators during 1991-200 1.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
2x40 MW of generating units to be    2x4OMW of generating units at OFE     Achieved. To fully utilize the 200MW OFE
commissioned at OFE in 1997.         commissioned in July 2000.           facility, the third 40MW unit was
commissioned in May 2002 (financed by
NORAD & SIDA). Also, 2x4OMW is
scheduled for commissioning by end 2004
under the IDA Power IV Project.
Improved UEB operational and financial  Technical losses reduced to about 13%,  UEB performance improved under interim
performance.                         collections dose to 100% of billed, significant management arrangements, but overall
reduction in number of employees, ROR of  operational and financial performance below
8%, UEB able to meet its debt service  SAR expectations (see attachment for
obligations.                         specific details).
Successful implementation of power sector  Electricty act promulgated in November  Program encountered some delays but
reform program.                      1999, ERA established in April 2000, UEB  Govemment commitment is strong. Bid
unbundled in March 2001, increased tariff  documents issued to pre-qualified firms for
structure effective June 2001, financial  distribution and generation concessions in
restructuring plan implemented.      April 2002. Timing of award of concessions
estimated August 2002.
Transmission and distribution system  Owen Falls Switchyard extended &     Complete, except that the new Westem
reinforced.                          Jinja-Lugogo 132 kV line (80 km)      Region line was terminated at Masaka.
constructed; Kampala-Kabulasoke-Masaka
132kV line rehabilitated; Masaka-Westem
Region line constructed & Masaka
Substation reinforced; Mbarara 132/33 kV
Substation constructed & various 132kV,
33kV & 11 kV systems rehabilitated.
Carry out a Hydropower masterplan.   Agreement on AfDB-financed masterplan  Masterplan completed and recommendations
recommendations and implementation of  agreed. Financial closure of private sector
recommended project.                 supported Bujagali Hydropower Project
anticipated mid-2002.
UEB to adopt LRMC-based tariff.      Average tariff to be increased by 5% per  Annual 5% increase not implemented but
annum in real terms.                  achievements in line with SAR estimates.
The tariff was increased to US$0.094 in June
2001 by the ERA.
Old Owen Falls dam strengthened to avoid  Seepage reduced and dam strengthened to  Actions achieved.
safety and environmental hazards.    meet present day standards.
End of project
- 16 -



Power Ul Project (Credit 2268-lJG)                             Table A
Operational and Financial Indicators
P>lanned     Aaa  flaaoud     Asl3  Phorjd  Ac        tual PlenAc l Fln       S1d!  Ennu      ASl
jflj             iS9              1993             1994             WAS              1996
Eledricity sent out (GWh)              OSO     m       oso       94     826      977    909     1016     965     1058   1,05t     1129
Sysem Losses (GWh)                    203      205     186     224      165     235      154     274     156      338     158      308
Total System Losses (%I               21%      26%     19%     23%     20%      24%     24%     27%      16%     32%     15%       27
Collected as % BiUled (Ug+export)     n.e.     n.e.    nA.     82%      n.a.    81%      n.e.   78%      n.e.    68%      ILA.     90%
Colealed as % Gen.Sent Out            n.a..    n.e.    n.e.    63%      n.e.    62%      n.e.   57%      n.e.    39%       e.       %
Electricity Sales (C3Wh)
Uganda                               577      426     435     486      495     477      545     4U8     589      522     631      677
Ezpor (Kenp, TanmnleamRnda)          200      150     205     284      206     263      210     252     220      194     262      152
Total                                777     576     640     770      701     740      755     740     809     715      893      U9
Revenus   (USh milonr
Uganda Electicity Sales            12900    039    27.200   20,S1   47.SO  29.044   49.400  ",126   52300    48,030  5U,700   6,900
Eipoqs (Kenya, Tanzania,Rwanda)     1,200     72     18.00   1,7"    1,900     994    2.000   2,14     2360    28        900    4,276
Subeo d                           14.100  10,116  29,000   22,621  49f400   30,038  51,400  48,310  54,66a   60411   61,600   50,170
Meter/Other                          150     124      17Z     566      190     s70     16w    1595      160    1,182     160    1,240
Total Revenues                   14.250   10,240  29,179  23,286   40,590  30,708  51,560   6004    54,820  61,698   61,70   61,416
Expendltures                        14,500   9,081   18,500  20,64   23.700  32,6     22,200  41,082  22220    42,1(7  32000    49,193
Net Operating Ineome (Loss)           (250)  1,160   10,679   2,74S  25.890   (1,939) 29.360   9,122  32620     0,426  29,760   12.223
Net frcom. (Loss)                            1,038    1,200   2,656    ,500   (2,019)  #900    2,301   5070     1,244   2400      402
No. of Custom e                     113,967  105,509  118,906  110,809  124,340  116.88  130.198  107,620  132,499  11M409  n.e.  123,045
No. of Employees                     2188    2,913   2,338    2,970   2,500   3,374    2550    3,15    2,600    3,28     n.e.    3,283
No of ConnecUonsMlEmpoye               52       36      51      37       50      35      51       34      52      34     n.a.      37
Ave. Uganda Tariff (UshIKWh)    22l4          22.1    43.8     42.9    72.0    609      70      04.     70.7     32.0    70.2     32.
Ave. Uganda Tariff (USl/kWh)     S   0.048 S 0.022 S 0.04R  S 0A35  S 0.072 S 0.053 S 0.076 S 0.095 S 0.079 S 0.092 S 0.083 5     .083
Accounts Receivable (months)           3.1    S       3.0      6.3     30      3.9      3.0     OA      3.0     11.3     3.0     102
Current Ratio                          8.4     0.7     19.9     0.5    37.4     IA      50.4     IA     S8.0      1.7    56.3      1.7
Debt ServIe CoverageV                  1.1     3.9     1.2      3.7     1.5      3.5     1.5     3.1     1.1     LIO      1.1     1.07
Debt to Equity Ratio (%)             19:81   20t60   34.66    16:84   43:47   13:87   48:52    15:85   51:49    20:80   50:50    26:75
Return Ave Net Fixed Assets         -0.13%    0.5%    4.1%     1.2%    7.5%   .0.5%    10.0%    1.7%    7.4%     1.7%    5.1%     3A%
*  The SAR assumed lI losses were abuted to Ugendan sales. This figure has been ajusted to represent ol system losses based on totel system ouvx.
Financialprojectons in , SAR wr d n*tddin US$, nd have been estmated in USh t fiitte oomnpaison, based on ib. annual ave. USSWSh rat.
UEB did not meet most of its annual debt serfce obligtons. Records of acrued interest nd defena d pinciple wer in diseTay.
In 2001, as part of ift power sector refonm pgram, Mie Government hv#emented a significant financial restncturing plan for te sector.



Power III Project (Credit 22684JG)                         Table B
Operatonal and Financial Indicators
Plennedal   Bd ctual      PAtnnso                               AuM as   mnntd    Afuit
1997              1998             1999               2000               20
Esdtne
Electricity swnt out (GWh)               1,102     1,228   1,15     1,241    1.217    134      1.287     1,88      R.A.     18578
System Losse (GWh)                         1S9      358      159     376   100 43                160      442      n.a.      as
System Losses (%)                         14%       29%     14%      30%      13%      36%      12%      2UA%      na.     3A%
Colleted as % BUled (Ug+export)            n.e      56%      nA.     79%       n.      94%       n.s.     86%      n.e.      75%
Coleed as % Gen.Srnt Out                   n.e      61%      na.     55%       FL&     61%       n.s.     61%      ne.      48%
ElectricIty Sales (GWh)
uganda                                    676      701      727     706       780     710       839       843     n.a.      913
Ewxp fiOW    ,Tnzrn=hWARww                267      169      273     159       277     214       288       251     n.s.      145
ToW                                      943      870    1,000     a65     1,057     924     1,127     1,094     n.a.     1058
Revenues (USh mHllon)"
Uganda                                 B6,000      -     87,900     .     113,700  58,02    143.600    83,03     n. a.  142S08
Exqpon (Kenya, Tranzis,Rwende)          3.150    12,001   4,075   13,718    4.960   19,142    6400     30,679     n. a.  23,49
Subtota                               69,150   12.001   91,975  13.7185 11.660    64644    150OW0    110,682    n.e.   166862
Meter & Other Revenue                     160    1,918     190      157      217    1,235      245      3,913    n.e.     2A34
TotalRevenues                         69,310   13,916   92.165  13,672   118.877  U,929    150,245   114,895    n. .   167,896
Expenditures                            33%300   67,429   40,400   31,07    47,700  5166      59,000    68,67      n..    93,136
Net Operating Incomne (Loss)            36.010   (43,513)  51,765  (77,735  71.177  27,763    91,245    45,728     n.e.   74,760
Not Icome (Lous)                        O.'      (75,061)  14,C    2,44     f8O0     404       7,100     9A39      n.a,   13,755
No. of Custom es                            n.   137A38     nIL.  155,612      n.a.  164,225     n.a.   182,372    n..   200,187
No of Empkloy..                             n..   3,060     nI      2,028      n.a.  2,025       n.a.    1,837     n..     1,874
No of ConnecroSn/Employee                   nA.      45      n.       77       n.e.     81       ne.      100      n..       107
Ave. Ugana Tariff (UshIKW) wscL VAT       79.0      88.     992      8.3     121.0     92.3    143.7      650      n.a.      156
Ave.UgandaTarlff(USIkWh)exzcL VAT      S 0.085  5 030     0.M0   $ 0.068  S 0.094 S 0.064 S    0.099 $   007      n.a.     0.074
Accounts Receivable (months)               3.0       30      3.0      9.1      3.0     6.2       30        S5      n.a.       6.0
Current Ratio                              61.3      1.3    68.4      1.0     28.9      1.3      0.4       2       n.e.       21
Debt ServIe Coverage-                      12M    1.54     1.09     O0       0.92     1.8      0.84       3J      n.s.      nA.
Debt to Equity Ratio (%)                  49:51   35:65    48:52   49:61     54.46     n.e.   69t31      4i55      n.s.      n.e
Return Ave Net Fixed Assets               5.9%     4A%      7.0% Z4.0%       9.0%     63%      11.1%      8.6%     n.s.      r.L
The SAR ssunwd dli lsses wee atfibuted to Ugendan sales. This figure has been ajusted to mpresent total system losses based on totl system ou4put
Financda projecton hi Oe SAR wm denominabd in US$, and have boen estimatd in USh to facilib conpa,fson, bind on et annual eve. US&WSh rab.
LAED ald not meet mostf Hs annual dbt servco obligaions. Records of acaued interest mnd deaetredpnd@ple wm in doswmy.
In 2001, as pae of ib powersectr refbm prograrr the Govemmentinpdementea sgnlen financial rssbucfunng plan for Oh sector.
"Roonclia0on of GoIt. aenss end debt swap was fonneled on Apri1 26, 2002 under stautwy isbiiwnit suppeent No. 15 (2002 No. 28), wJich has
siganbcar* redeced accounts reeable.



Observations on the Power m Operational and Financial Performnance Indicators
*   As of the closing date of the project, electricity produced and sent out from the Owen Falls Complex
exceeded the SAR projections beginning in 1997, even though new generation plant financed under the
Project (2x40MW) was only commissioned in July 2000; electricity sent out from Owen Falls Complex
and domestic sales were, respectively, 22.4% and 8.8% above the SAR projections.
I
*   Technical and non-technical system losses of about 30% remained high over the implementation period,
with virtually no improvement in their reduction.
*   Attempts to improve billing and collection, including special efforts like "Operation Thunder" initially
produced good results, but they could not be sustained. Accounts receivable remained well above the
SAR estimate of 3 months during project implementation. While the Governnent has taken steps to
ensure prompt and complete payment by Government agencies, customer billing and collections
management remains an area where significant efficiency gains can be made.
*   The value of electricity export sales to Kenya, Tanzania and Rwanda was four times greater than Staff
Appraisal Report estimates, while the volume of exported electricity sales was generally in line with
SAR projections. In 2001, electricity export sales accounted for 14.2% of UEB electricity revenues.
*   Sales revenues during the 1992-2001 implementation period were consistently below the SAR
projections, and expenditures were consistently above the SAR projections. It should be noted that the
SAR financial projections were prepared in US$, while UEB keeps its books in USh. Thus, there may
be some anomalies in the SAR projections which have had to be translated into USh figures for
comparative purposes.
*   Since 1991, there has been close to a 90% increase in the number of consumers UEB serves, or nearly
a 9% annual increase in electricity consumers (from about 105,569, to about 200,187), and close to a
7% annual increase in electricity generated over the 1991-2001 period (from 781 GWh to 1575 GWh),
despite load shedding which began in 1996. In July 2001, following the the commissioning of OFE,
UEB contineued to shed load. This implies that electricity demand is greater than the supply.
*   The number of UEB employees increased dramatically over the implementation period, rising from
2,188 in 1991 to a high of 3,374 in 1993. In 2001, the number of UEB employees had decreased to
1;777 following a concerted effort by the Government to improve UEB productivity.
*   Apart from an increase in the average electricity to US$0.074 per kWh in January 1993, the envisaged
tariff covenant (of a 5% annual increase in USD terms) was not adhered to because of the substantial
appreciation of the USh against the USD during 1994-96, and because service availability and
reliability had deteriorated. In July 2001, 2x40MW of new generation was commissioned at OFE.
Effective June 1, 1991, the ERA instituted a new tariff schedule, bringing the average electricity tariff
to US$0.094 per kWh. This average tariff per kWh does not include the effects of the Government's
power sector financial restructuring plan, for which a portion of the benefits (the equivalent of USh
20.7 billion) was passed back to consumers in the form of a tariff rebate.
*   UEB hardly serviced its debt to the Government, thereby leading to Government subsidization of power
to consumers.
*   UEB did not meet its return on Average Net Fixed assets during the implementation period.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate-     Appraisal
Project Cost By Component  -         US$m illion   US milion
Owen Falls Extension                              223.30         225.28
Technical Assistance to UEB & MEMD                  7.70           9.77
Next Major Site Study                               3.00           1.20
Dam Remedial Works                                 25.00           9.80
Repayment of PPF                                    0.80           0.80
Transmission & Distribution                         6.60          70.18
Power Sector Reforn                                 0.00           3.50
Total Baseline Cost                               266.40         320.53
Physical Contingencies                            32.40
Price Contingencies                               36.20
Total Project Costs           335.00         320.53
Total Financing Required           335.00         320.53
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB          Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    177.50        0.00         0.00         15.60       193.10
(93.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (93.00)
2. Goods                     7.90         0.00         0.00        100.00       107.90
(7.90)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (7.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        23.30         9.90        33.20
(0.00)       (0.00)      (23.30)       (0.00)      (23.30)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.80         0.00         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.80)       (0.00)       (0.80)
Total                    185.40        0.00         24.10        125.50      335.00
(100.90)      (0.00)      (24.10)       (0.00)      (125.00)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB           Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       132.49         0.00          0.00          0.00         132.49
(88.79)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (88.79)
2. Goods                       38.68          0.00           0.88         103.58        143.14
(23.69)        (0.00)        (0.88)        (0.00)        (24.57)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          40.52          0.00         40.52
(0.00)         (0.00)       (38.55)        (0.00)       (38.55)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           4.38          0.00         4.38
(0.00)         (0.00)       (1.06)         (0.00)        (1.06)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       171.17          0.00         45.78         103.58        320.53
(112.48)        (0.00)       (40.49)        (0.00)       (152.97)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.   .               .     .            ~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate  .        Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA      Govt.     CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.     IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Owen Falls Extension    88.00     29.00     154.50    120.89    31.29     73.10    137.4  107.9  47.3
TA to UEB & MEMD         0.50      8.70      0.00      6.46      3.31     0.00    1292.0  38.0    0.0
Next Major Site Study    0.00      0.00      3.60      0.00      0.00      1.20    0.0     0.0   33.3
Dam Remedial Works      27.80      2.40      0.00      8.76      1.04      0.00    31.5   43.3    0.0
Repayment of PPF         0.80      0.00      0.00      0.80      0.00     0.00     100.0   0.0    0.0
Transmission & Distr.    7.90      1.60     10.20     12.56      3.97     53.65    159.0  248.1  526.0
Power Sector Reform      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.50      0.00     0.00     0.0     0.0    0.0
Total                   125.00    41.70     168.30    152.97    39.61     127.95   122.4  95.0   76.0
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Consistent with the analysis at appraisaL the updated economic analysis considered a time-slice of UEB's
development program, including the Owen Falls Extension (Units 11 and 12), transmission and
distribution, and Units 13 and 14 instead of emergency diesel-based generation which was envisaged at
appraisal. At appraisaL the value of consumption to the economy was estimated based partly on the
alternative costs of private generation or alternative energy sources, and partly on customers' estimated
willingness to pay. The estimate of US$0. 15 was maintained in this re-calculation. Below is a summary of
the costs and benefits.
Total      Owen
System     Fall Ext.. Technical                       Net
Year    Owen Falb ExtnL      Trns & Distr.         OFE Units 13 &14      Cosb       Capadty   Lasso      Sales       Benefits  Benefits
Capital    O&M        Capital    O&M       Capital    O&M
USS milL   USS nmlL  USS milL   USS milL   USS miiL   USS milL   USS niiL   GWh        %         GWh        USS milL   USS milL
1991
1992           2.5                                                              2.5                                          0        -2.5
1993          10.8                                                             10.8                                          0      -10.8
1994          15.3                                                             15.3                                          0      -15.3
1995          28.0                 11.3                                        39.3                                          0      .39.3
1996          21.9                   4.9       0.3                             27.1                                          0      -27.1
1997          58.0                   6.9       0.4                             65.3                                        0.0      -65.3
1998          34.5                   0.0       0.6                             35.1                                        0.0      -35.1
1999          24.0                  18.9       0.6                             43.5                                        0.0      -43.5
2000           6.2        1.0       16.4        1.1       10.5                 35.1        397       19.5       320        47.9       12.8
2001           0.0        1.0       10.1        1.5       15.1                 27.7        397       18.6       323        48.5       20.8
2002           4.0        1.0        5.0        1.7        4.4       0.1       16.3        477       17.8       392        58.8       42.5
2003                      1.0        5.0        1.8        7.2       0.2       15.2        477       17.1       395        59.3       44.1
2004                      1.0        5.0        2.0        6.4       0.2       14.5        527       16.4       441        66.1       51.5
2005                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2006                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2007                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2008                      1.0                   2.1                   0.2       3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2009                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2010                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2011                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2012                      1.0                   2:1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2013                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2014                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2015                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2016                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2017                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2018                      1.0                   2.1                  0.2        3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2019                      1.0                   2.1                   0.2       3.3        527       16.4       441        66.1       62.8
2020        (143.9)       1.0                   2.1     (38.4)       0.2    (179.0)        527       16.4       441        66.1      245.1
PVs           $73.05      $7.68     S47.94    SIO.16     $13.28      $1.45    $160.56                                     $185.79    $25.236
NPV of                          NPV of                           NPV ofnet
costs @                         benefits @                       benefts @
12 %:         $160.6            12 %:         S185.8             12%            $25.2             EIRR:         13.72%
Notes:
1) Cost of dam strengthening not included
2) $20 million for spillway has been deducted from capital cost
3) Annual bydrm O&M: 0.5% of capital costs
4) Annual T&D O&M: 2.5%
5) Residual values for hydro plants included assunsing 30 yr economic hlft.
-20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 19900                 4    SPE, SFA, ES, OA
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1990                   4    SPE, SFA, ES, OA
Supervision
August 1991                  1   PE                                S             S
(initial summary)
June 1992                    1   SPE                               S            HS
August 1992                  I   SPE                               HS           HS
Update September             I   SPE, FA, FA                       S             S
1992
December 1992                3   SPE, FA, FA                       S             S
June 1993                    2   SPE, FA                           S            HS
Update September            2    SPE, FA                           S            HS
1993
December 1993                3   SPE, FA, EA                       S            HS
March 1994                   2   PFA, EA                           S            HS
Update September             0                                     S             S
1994
December 1994                2   EE, SFA                           S             S
Update June 1995             2   EE, SFA                           S             S
July 1995                    2   EE, SFA                           S             S
April 1996                   1   EE                                U             U
October 1996                2    EE, SFA                           U             U
June 1997                    I   PE                                U             U
Update July 1997             0   -                                 U             U
January 1998                 2   PE, SFA                           S             S
June 1998                    1   PE                                S             S
February 1999                1   PE                                S             U
May 1999                     I   PE                                S             U
June 1999                    3   PE, PE, LS                        S             U
December 1999               2    SES, PE                           S             S
Update April 2000            0-                                    S             S
August 2000                 2    SFA, PE                           S             S
Update March                 I   SPE                               S             S
2001
June 2001                    1   SPE                               S             S
December 2001               4    SPE, EC, FA, FMS                  S             S
Update December             0                                      S             S
2001
ICR
-21 -



PE = Power Engineer, SPE = Senior Power Engineer, FA = Financial Analyst/Financial Assistant, EE =
Electrical Engineer, SFA = Senior Financial Analyst, E4 = Energy Advisor, PFA = Principal Financial
Analyst, LS = Lead Specialist, SES = Senior Environmental Specialist, EC = Energy Economist, FMS =
Financial Management Specialist, ES = Environmental Specialist, OA = Operations Analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  1              Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            64.2                      147.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                 28.9                        68
Supervision                         243.95                      779.8
ICR                                   8.42                      26.2
Total                               345.47                     1021.6
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
a Macro policies                           tjH   ''SU     M  *N     I NA
OI Sector Policies                            H  O SU     M  ZN     iNA
O Physical                                  9H   O SU ID M    .N   I KNA
O Financial                                   H     SU * M      N   ZNA
OI Institutional Development                - H     SU * M      N     NA
3 Environmental                            K H      SU 0 M    - N  O NA
Social
O PovertyReduction                   JiH  ' SUOM       iN    I NA
Oi Gender                           ;H       SU    M  ' N   *NA
Li Other (Please specify)            KH      SU   'M     N     NA
ri Private sector development              KH    O SU     M   iN    iNA
if Public sector management                 - H     SU* M       N     NA
Gi Other (Please specify)                   UH      SU*M      _ N   iNA
Implementation of a comprehensive power sector reform program.
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Hi,ghly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            C) HS OS      'J U  C_ HU
O Supervision                                        C) HS * S     C- U  C' HU
O Overall                                            C_) HS * S    CJ U  (D HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                           HS * S        U   _lHU
O Government implementation performance                 HS * S        U     HU
O Implementation agency performance                  CI HS * S     _D U   _HU
EF Overall                                              HS * S S   _: U     HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report - Uganda Third Power Project - May 29, 1991
Memorandum of the President for Power III Supplemental Credit
-25 -



Additional Annex 8. Uganda's Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization Strategy
I.      Background and Overview of Sector Reform
1.      In June 1999 the Cabinet of the Government of Uganda approved the Power Sector Restructuring
and Privatization Strategy. The principal objectives were to: (a) make the power sector financially viable
and efficient; (b) meet the growing demands for electricity and increasing area coverage; (c) improve the
reliability and quality of electricity supply; (d) attract private capital and entrepreneurs; and (e) take
advantage of export opportunities. The key reforms called for in the Government's strategy are:
*      Unbundling of the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) into separate generation, transmission and
distribution businesses;
*      Privatizing the generation and distribution businesses via long-term concessions; and
*      Establishing an autonomous authority to regulate the power sector.
2.      Uganda's new Electricity Act was promulgated on November 1, 1999. It enables private
participation in the power sector, establishes the Electricity Regulatory Authority, and permits the
privatization of UEB. The commissioners of the Electricity Regulatory Authority were appointed in April
2000.
3.      The Utility Reform Unit, a specialized division within the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development, is the Government agency responsible for implementing the privatization, and is
acting as agent of the Government. The Utility Reform Unit recruited advisors, financed by IDA, to assist
with power sector restructuring:
*    The Investment Bank - Fieldstone Africa (Pty) Ltd in association with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene &
MacRae LLP was retained in March 2001 by the Government to advise it on the final phase of the
privatization of Uganda's electricity generation and distribution assets. Fieldstone is building upon the
work of the Transaction Advisor;
*    The Transaction Advisor - led by PA Consulting, and including Lahmeyer International, Hunton &
Williams and Arthur Andersen, this team of advisors was retained in March 2000; and
*    Assisting the Government with policy decisions, transaction preparation, pre-marketing, and
retention of the Investment Bank.
4.      To date, the following implementation measures have been completed:
Power Sector Reform Timetable of Actions Completed
Approval of Government Power Sector Reform and Privatization Strategy   June 1999
Enactment enabling legislation - 1999 Electricity Act                   November 1999
Commencement of Government due diligence                                March 2000
Appointment of Electricity Regulatory Authority                         April 2000
First consultation with prospective concessionaires                     June 2000
Determination of number of distribution companies; operation of generation assets,
and; lifetime of the Transmission single buyer                          July 2000
Preparation draft concession agreements; power purchase agreements      August 2000
Asset / liability valuation                                             October 2000
Investment needs analysis, and Economic due diligence                  October 2000
-26 -



Power Sector Reform Timetable of Actions Completed (continued)
Second consultation with prospective concessionaires                   October 2000
Completion of tariff and financial models                              December 2000
Preparation of pro-forma financial statements for successor companies  December 2000
Completion of Government due diligence                                 January 2001
Appointment of Investment Bank                                         March 2001
Creation of UEB Successor Companies                                    March 2001
Request for applications to pre-qualify for UEDC and UEGC concessions  June 2001
Pre-qualification selections for UEDC and UEGC concessions             July 2001
Request for Proposals package for each concession, including Information
Memorandum, Due Diligence Procedures, Bidding Procedures and the Concession  September 2001
Agreements
Comments on documents                                                   October 17, 2001
Revised Documents issued to Distribution and Generation concessionaires  April 2002
The following steps remain to be completed:
Power Sector Reform Milestones Remaining to be Completed (estimated completion dates)
Concession proposals due July 2002
Winning qualified bidders to be announced August 2002
The UEB Successor Companies
5.      As of March 30, 2001, by means of Statutory instrument 2001 No.18 under sections 25A(I) and
26(4) of the Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Statute, 1993, certain of the assets, liabilities and
operations of UEB were transferred to separate limited liability companies for generation, transmission and
distribution. The successor companies are registered in accordance with the Companies Act under the
following names:
*    Uganda Electricity Distribution Company (UEDC) Ltd.;
*    Uganda Electricity Transmission Company (UETC) Ltd.; and
*    Uganda Electricity Generation Company (UEGC) Ltd.
6.      UEDC, UETC and UEGC are public limited liability companies as defined by the Companies Act.
Each was incorporated with the Company Registrar on 26th March 2001. The shareholders in each
company are the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State for Finance responsible for Privatization.
7.      UEDC and UEGC are slated for privatization via concession. In accordance with the June 1999
PSRPS, UETC is to remain under public ownership and operation in the near term, and to be let under a
concession to a private operator in the medium term.
8.      The functional separation of the Uganda Electricity Board included preparation of policies for
division into individual generating, transmission and distribution sectors/companies. The separation included
- 27 -



the division of the assets and liabilities of UEB into the successor companies. New Articles and Memoranda
of Association for each of the successor companies were prepared, and separate Board of Directors and
principal officers for each appointed. As part of the separation, cost accounting systems and budgets by
sub-sector have been created, along with human resources management divisions.
9.       The UEB separation is expected to permit greater transparency in electricity pricing, and in
monitoring the efficiency of the three business segments, thereby assisting ERA in the task of regulation. It
is also expected to improve corporate govemance in the power sector, open the way for new independent
suppliers in the generation and distribution sectors and finally provide a basis for the privatization of the
generation and distribution businesses via long-term concessions.
10.     The diagram below describes the new Uganda Power industry structure.
Figure 8-1 The Uganda Power Industry Structure
tJganida
Electricitv Board
.. 
IGENERA       INTON SECTOR      TRANSMISSIONSECOR              DilUTON SECTOR
L._- - -   - - -                -"- - - - - --                   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - .
Up11. l!uli:;-Aeoricitvl            t -anall:l:lciit I             I !g:ud:a FleCtricit.v   p
(-.ellefrdtion 011111);111!t  a   r;uoisLssion (-'wijpPanN   "  Distribulioll ( 0111ipany! * 
Nalubaale & Kia Stalions
.    Concessioning      .       .                                   Distibution & Supply
* TransliSion OperatDr                Concession
. Sysem Opeator
Al:S liti gi'Ai 11T'           Single Byer
-28 -



The Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA)
11.     ERA Board members are appointed by the Minister with the approval of Cabinet. The ERA is
supported by a full-time Secretariat, including a CEO, whereas the members of the Board are part time.
12.     The Electricity Act sets out in detail ERA's responsibilities. In the initial phase, the system of
regulation will be through various contracts to be entered into for the Distribution and Generation
Concessions. The key responsibilities of the ERA will be monitoring compliance with these contracts and
enforcing any bonus or penalty payments, as appropriate, as well as establishing the guidelines for and
undertaking periodic price reviews.
13.     The Electricity Act also sets out the procedures to be used to settle any disputes arising from the
application of the new regulatory system. This includes a provision for international dispute resolution with
the aim of building confidence in the private sector for the new restructured power sector. The Government
recognizes the importance of consumers and intends to empower them through the creation of appropriate
consumer representation bodies, which will be given legal enforcement through legislation. ERA also has the
responsibility of co-ordination with other entities that are responsible for the non-economic regulation of the
sector, including regulation of technical standards and environmental standards.
14.     The Regulator will be responsible for reviewing and approving all contracts, ranging from
short-term management contracts through to long-term concession contracts and Power Purchase
Agreements. Reviews and approvals will be in accordance with procedures that assure transparency,
timeliness and effectiveness, as defined in the sector legislation and corresponding regulations.
15.     ERA has the following responsibilities, in accordance with general procedures defined in the sector
legislation and the corresponding regulations:
* Establish its rules of practice and procedure in conformity with the governing legislation;
* Oversee demand and supply conditions to ensure adequate generation and transmission and capacity is
being contracted and constructed;
* Periodically evaluate transmission and distribution sector performance;
* Issue licenses for the generation, transmission, distribution or sale of electricity and the ownership or
operation of the systems carrying out the functions of generation and transmission;
* Grant and revoke licenses (License for Bulk Power Supply, License for Power Export or Import,
License for System Operator and License for operation of High Voltage Transmission Grid);
*   Receive and process license applications; prescribe the terms and conditions of licenses; and modify
licenses;
* Make and enforce directions to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of licenses;
* Establish a uniform system of accounts for licensees;
* Establish a tariff structure and to investigate tariff charges;
* Prescribe and collect license fees;
*   Monitor and mediate the domestic contracting process between bulk suppliers and purchasers in
situations where contracting parties fail to agree, or when public complaints occur which warrant
regulatory oversight;
* Approve the standards for the quality of electricity supply;
* Establish and monitor adherence to rules on reservoir regulation and discharge of water from hydro
facilities;
* Encourage the development within the industry of standards and codes of conduct.
* The Government's key roles in the reformed power sector will mainly be to prepare and obtain
- 29 -



necessary approvals for legislation, prepare and approve regulations, prepare the national energy
strategy including developing the electricity policy and generation plans; and
*   The key applicable codes are: the Electricity Safety Code, the Grid Code, the Quality of Service Code,
the Electricity Distribution Code and the Electricity Supply Code.
The Power Market Structure
16.     The market structure for the reformed power industry is outlined in the June 1999 Power Sector
Reform and Privatization Strategy. The transmission and distribution businesses have natural monopoly
features and will therefore be regulated by the ERA. The distribution concession will have an exclusive area
of supply defined around the existing distribution network, and that areas beyond this will be open to
competing suppliers. This will therefore foster competition to supply unserved areas.
17.     In the generation sub-sector there may be prospects for a competitive wholesale market in the long
term, especially with future regional integration. While thermal peaking plant may prove economically
viable in the medium term, least cost generation additions are likely to continue to be medium sized
hydroelectric plants. Typically these are capital intensive, with high fixed costs and a marginal energy cost
approaching zero, which will also inhibit the emergence of a competitive energy market. Moreover, at
present there is only one generation complex (Kiira / Nalubaale) with the next proposed new hydropower
facility (Bujagali) scheduled for commissioning in 2006. For the foreseeable future, competition in the
generation sector will principally be competition to enter the market. This will be organized by the ERA
which will receive competing applications for licenses from prospective generators.
18.     Generators, including the UEGC concessionaire and the proposed Bujagali Power Project, will sell
power to UETC under long term contracts. UETC will be responsible for dispatch and system operation.
UETC will also be responsible for bulk purchase and supply, which it will conduct as a separate ring fenced
business. As bulk supplier UETC will buy power from generators and sell to distributors, including the
UEDC concessionaire and new inter-connected independently operated systems. UETC will also be
responsible for the export of power.
19.     The Government is proposing that for generation additions after the proposed Bujagali Power
Project, the UETC should not perform a single buyer function. Instead, distributors should contract directly
with generators, and UETC should be responsible simply for the transmission of power. The timing of
removal of the single buyer function will depend upon the ability of the private sector to finance new projects
without a single off-taker or Government guarantees of the payment obligations. The timing of the removal
of the single-buyer function will be governed by the Bulk Supply License as issued by the ERA to UETC.
Legal Basis for Restructuring
20.     UEB and its successor companies, UEGC, UETC and UEDC are listed in Class 2 of the First
Schedule to the Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Statute. This means that these are companies in
which Government is required to maintain a majority shareholding.
21.     As detailed in the June 1999 Power Sector Reform and Privatization Strategy, UEDC and UEGC
are to be privatized via long-term concessions. A concession is a permitted mode of privatization as
specified in section 7(1)(e) of the Second Schedule to the Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Statute.
It should be noted that the June 1999 Power Sector Reform and Privatization Strategy states that the
transmission business, UETC, will remain publicly owned and operated in the near-term and that
Government will seek to privatize it via long term concession in the medium term.
- 30 -



22.     The PERD Statute further requires that privatizations be implemented in accordance with the
Divestiture Procedures Manual. This Divestiture Action Plan is presented to the Divestiture and Reform
Implementation Committee in accordance with the requirements of the Divestiture Procedures Manual.
23.     The 1999 Electricity Act requires companies engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution,
supply or export of power to obtain a license from the ERA. UEGC, UETC and UEDC were licensed by the
ERA on March 29, 2001. New licenses will be issued to the incoming concessionaires.
24.     The ERA is responsible for a number of decisions, including tariffs, quality of service and
technical standards, which are central to the transaction. The Utility Reform Unit has been assisting the
ERA to become fully operational. The ERA is also benefitting from technical assistance provided by the
Norwegian Energy and Water Resources Regulator.
Rural Electrification
25.     Electricity is currently available to about one percent of rural households. Less than half of this
power is provided by UEGC/UEDC, the remainder comes from household generators, car batteries or solar
photo-voltaic units. Although UEB has been adding new connections at an average rate of approximately
8,500 a year (mainly in urban and semi-urban areas), the number of households has been growing at 100,000
every year; more than half of this growth has been in rural areas. It should be noted that more than 15,000
new connections were added in both 2000 and 2001.
26.     Rural electrification forms an integrated part of the Government's wider rural transformation and
poverty eradication agenda. The strategy also seeks to promote the use of the country's abundant renewable
energy resources. A Rural Electrification Unit has been established to develop the Government's Rural
Electrification Strategy with the main objective to achieve 300,000 new connections in rural areas by 2010.
This is to be achieved from a combination of grid extensions, mini-grids and photo-voltaic systems. The
total cost of adding 300,000 new connections has been estimated at between US$200 - US$500 million.
27.     The proposed Energy for Rural Transformation project, developed by Government of Uganda with
assistance from IDA, is intended to provide a decentralized framework for facilitating more rapid rural
electrification, with financing coming from a 5 percent levy on electricity bills. The 5 percent levy has not
yet been introduced, and is expected to raise US$2 - US$3 million annually. Allocations from the budget for
rural electrification have been small to date (less than $5 million per annum).
28.     To address the issue of funding and to further the implementation of rural electrification, a Rural
Electrification Strategy and Plan has been prepared by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development in
consultation with the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development, the Ministry of Local Government and
other stakeholders in the private and public sector. The Government's Rural Electrification Strategy and
Plan was submitted to IDA on April 4, 2001 in its letter of Sector Development Policy. The plan develops a
new demand-driven policy approach, which allows for the initiative of electrification projects from any
capable sponsor - private companies (including the new concessionaires), NGOs, local authorities and
communities.
29.     Tariffs will reflect costs of the electrification initiatives, allowing return on invested private capital.
This will result in tariffs varying to consumers in different regions. To assure that tariffs are not
unreasonably high, maximum tariff levels will be established. The government will also reduce tariff levels
by subsidizing the capital cost of new rural connections from a Rural Electrification Fund.
- 31 -



30.     Rural electrification subsidies will take the form of one-off grants to cover a proportion of the
project capital costs. Grant applications will be assessed against objective eligibility criteria, and allocated
amongst qualifying projects in regular grant competitions, on the basis of lowest grant request per new
electricity connection. The process will be objective, transparent and open. The grant allocation process will
be managed by the Rural Electrification Unit and grant funds will be held by a trust who will disburse them
according to agreed and verified project milestones.
31.     ERA will have the responsibility for the regulatory aspect of the Rural Electrification Strategy.
Relaxed licensing requirements, maximum tariff levels, appropriate safety and service level standards as well
as regulations for facilitating grid extensions will be introduced by ERA in order to facilitate the Rural
Electrification projects. The ERA may delegate the regulatory responsibility for small projects to local
authorities.
II.     The UEDC Concession
32.     UEDC is a public limited liability company as defined by the Companies Act. It was incorporated
with the Company Registrar on March 26, 2001. Asset and liabilities were vested in UEDC by Statutory
Instrument No. 18, under Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Statute 1993. The shareholders are the
Minister of Finance and the Minister of State for Finance Responsible for Privatization. Its registered place
of business is Amber House, Kampala. UEDC holds a license as issued by the ERA on May 29, 2001. The
license is valid for one year or until the effectiveness of the incoming concessionaire's license, whichever
comes first.
Business and Operations
33.     UEDC owns and operates the grid connected electricity supply infrastructure operating at 33 kV
and below. It is responsible for the retail of electricity, including the metering and billing of consumers.
UEDC is headed by a Managing Director and presently has 1,200 permanent staff.
Financial Performance
34.     UEDC was incorporated in May 2001, and it has not yet produced any audited annual accounts. It
should be noted that UEDC has a 'clean' balance sheet in that it owns assets with a net book value of US$
75.9 million and it does not at present have significant liabilities. It is anticipated, however, that once donors
have consented to the restructuring of UEB debt, this will be assigned to the successor companies pro-rata
according to asset values. The tariffs recently approved by the ERA should permit the company to
adequately cover operational and capital expenses and to service the debt that will be assigned to it.
UEDC Asset Values (US$ equivalent)
Replacement Depreciated Value
Distribution(before debt restructuring)
Embedded Generation - Maziba Dam      3,980,000          1,097,417
Substations                           26,953,922         12,797,638
Lines                                 194,510,696        62,033,303
Total                                 US$ 225,444,617    US$ 75,928,357
- 32 -



Investment Obligation
35.     The distribution concessionaire will be required to make investments in rehabilitation and
reinforcement, and to add new customers.
Contractual Arrangements
36.     The concession will consist of several contracts/agreements as described below, and will have a 20
year term. A distribution license, and a supply license to be issued by the ERA. The distribution and supply
license will grant the following rights and obligations:
*      The right to sell energy at tariffs defined in the license and the right to collect revenues from
energy sales and capital payments for new customer connections;
*      The right to 'pass-through' the cost of bulk energy supply (i.e. generation plus transmission
charges) through to consumers at cost;
*      The right to make a tariff applications to the ERA initially after 24 months, and every 36 months
thereafter;
*      The right to automatic indexing of the retail tariff to foreign exchange and inflation changes; and
*      The concessionaire will be eligible to bid for subsidies from the Rural Electrification Fund to
buy-down the cost of network extensions beyond the area of exclusivity.
37.    A lease to be issued by UEDC. The lease will grant the following rights and obligations:
*      The right to operate, modify and expand UEDC assets. (While the concessionaire will hold a
lease interest in these assets, the reversionary ownership interest will remain in UEDC);
*      A twenty year right of occupation under standard lease terms, and the obligation to return
control of the asset to UEDC after term of the lease;
*      The right to receive a lump sum payout in return for the un-amortized value of assets at the end
of the lease term; and
*      An obligation to make minimum annual investments in system rehabilitation and reinforcement.
38.     A power sales agreement with the bulk supplier, UETC. The Power Sale Agreement will grant the
following rights and obligations:
*    The right to buy bulk power at tariffs approved by the ERA; and
*    The right to receive a defined quality of service from UETC.
39.     Subject to the terms of the license, the licensee shall be entitled to: (a) collect tariffs for energy
sales and capital payments for new customer connections; (b) have the right to compete for customers
outside the 1.0 km radius; and (c) apply for rural electrification funding for developments beyond the 1.0 km
radius. Tariffs will be approved by the ERA, acting on proposals of the concessionaire subject to the terms
of the Electricity Act 1999.
40.     Under the lease terms granted under the distribution Concession, the Concession company will be
required to make minimum annual investments in system rehabilitation and reinforcement as well as to make
at least a minimum number of new connections per annum. At the end of the term of the Concession the
assets will revert back to the Government.
- 33 -



41.     The distribution power sales agreement will obligate the Concession company to buy and UETC to
supply.
m.      The UEGC Concession
42.     UEGC is a public limited liability company as defined by the Companies Act. It was incorporated
with the Company Registrar on March 26, 2001. Assets and liabilities were vested in UEGC by Statutory
Instrument No. 18, under Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Statute. The shareholders are the
Minister of Finance and the Minister of State for Finance Responsible for Privatization. Its registered place
of business is Amber House, Kampala Rd, Kampala. UEGC holds a generation license as issued by the
ERA on May 29, 2001. The license is valid for one year or until the effectiveness of the incoming
concessionaires license, whichever comes first.
Business and Operations
43.     UEGC will own and operate the Kiira and Nalubaale hydropower stations. It will sell generated
electricity to the Transmission Company in accordance with a Power Sale Agreement. UEGC is headed by a
Managing Director and presently has 300 permanent staff.
Financial Performance
44.     UEGC was incorporated in May 2001, and has not yet produced any audited annual accounts.
UEGC has a 'clean' balance sheet in that it owns assets with a net book value of US$ 306.9 million and it
does not at present have significant liabilities (Note that once donors have consented to the restructuring of
UEB debt this will be assigned to the successor companies pro-rata according to asset values.) The tariffs
recently approved by the ERA should permit the company to adequately cover its operational and capital
expenses and to service the debt that will be assigned to it.
UEGC Asset Values (US$ equivalent)
Replacement Depreciated Value
(before debt restructuring)
Owens Falls Power Station  289,720,000               76,064,356
Owens Falls Extension     226,033,000                226,033,000
Substations (at Generation)  8,712,650               4,793,994
Total                     US$524,465,650             US$306,891,350
Investment Needs
45.     The concessionaire will be obligated to make a small amount of investment in wires and substation
assets associated with the Nalubaale and Kiira power stations.
Contractual Arrangements
46.     The concession will consist of several agreements (the 'Concession Agreements'), as described
below. The concession is envisaged to have a 20 year term.
47.     A generation license to be issued by the Electricity Regulatory Authority. The generation license
will grant the following rights and obligations:
- 34 -



*      The obligation to comply to technical standards;
*      The right to sell power at tariffs approved by the ERA;
48.    A lease which will be issued by UEGC: The lease will grant the Concessionaire the following rights
and obligations:
*      The obligation to make a defined investments in the assets;
*      The right to operate Kiira and Nalubaale Hydropower Stations, and to sell the power generated;
(While the concessionaire will hold a lease interest in these assets, they will remain in the
ownership of UEGC);
*      The obligation to maintain the assets;
*      The obligation to make an annual concession payment to UEGC; and
*      A twenty year right of occupation under standard lease terms, and the obligation to return
control of the asset to UEGC after term of the lease.
49.     A PPA with the bulk supplier, UETC, will obligate UEGC to: sell power to UETC, with payments
to be based on available MW capacity; and provide incentives to maintain minimum level of availability.
IV. UETC and UEB Statutory Corporation
50.     UEB (the statutory corporation) will remain in existence as owner of the isolated town-based diesel
systems in West Nile and Moroto; Amber House, a wood-pole plant and the corporation's residential
properties. The statutory corporation will also retain UEB's long term debt, pending agreement of its
restructuring with foreign donors. Thereafter the remaining debt will be vested in the successor companies.
UEB and the Govemment will be responsible for the pensions and terminal benefits due to former employees
of UEB. These employee liabilities will be administered as provided for in the Electricity Act of 1999.
51.     At the end of the concession term, the assets may either be sold by the Govemment in an outright
sale, or they will be tendered in a new competitive concession. In either case, the concessionaire will have
the right to bid for the secondary transaction. The value of any unamortized improvements to the assets, will
be paid to the Concessionaire at the end of the concession term, irrespective of the ultimate decision by
Government regarding its assets.
The transmission, dispatch, bulk supply and export/import functions of UEB are being retained by the
Government. These will be responsibility of the UETC which will carry out these activities under licenses
issued by the ERA.
- 35 -



Additional Annex 9. Government Contribution
1.0    Uganda Electricity Board Component
1.1   Assessment of development objectives, design and quality at entry
Original Objective
The development objectives were clear and realistic. They were also important for the power sector
development of Uganda and responsive to the circumstances and development priorities of the country and
the country's strategic framework for National Development. In confirmation with the Rehabilitation
Works in the Second Power Project, the Third Power Project was designed to meet the following objectives:
*   To prevent power supply bottlenecks that would otherwise hinder economic development;
*   To provide urgently needed least-cost capacity additions to Uganda's power generation capacity;
*   To increase the safety of the Owen Falls Dam;
*   To expand the transmission and distribution facilities;
*   To satisfy the requirements of all the productive sectors of the economy;
*   To enhance the utility's operating and management capability and financial performance; and
*   To establish realistic tariffs, a sector investment program, technical and practical training in modem
practices in preventive maintenance and operation, accounting and managerial skills.
Revised Objectives
The increment of generation capacity at the Owen Falls Station was originally planned to be 104MW. Due
to inclusion of the spillway structure in the new station, the capacity of the fed-water canal was increased
by 50%. Consequently, the capacity of the new power house structure was increased to 200 MW.
1.2   Original Components
The Project included the following sub components:
1. Owen Falls Extension: This sub-component comprised of a generation capacity fed through the
Diversion Canal of 1.6-km long from Lake Victoria. Two units of 40 MW capacity, were installed in the
first stage. Unit 13 of a similar capacity was installed at a later stage, bringing the total capacity to 120
MW.
The sub component also included additional spillways of capacity 3 X 580m3/sec and a double circuit
132-kV transmission line from Jinja to Kampala. The old line to Kampala was also overhauled and
reinstated. The existing switchyard at Owen Falls Station was extended in order to utilize the power from
the new station.
2.     Owen Falls Dam Remedial Works: This sub-component comprised of the employment of a
consultant and Panel of Experts to advise on the condition and design to strengthen the existing Owen Falls
Dam. The remedial works included the following:
*   Grouting works
*   Buttressing works
- 36 -



*   Excavation of Drainage Galleries
*   Remedying of Sluiceways
*   Set-up of a Quarry for Emergency
3. Design and Consultancy Supervision Services for the Owen Falls Extension
4. Water Hyacinth: This sub-component was included due to the emergence of an uncontrolled emergency
caused by an uncontrolled quantity of weeds threatening the operation of the existing power station at
Owen Falls.
5. Institutional Capacity Building: Under a:four year technical assistance plan, this sub-component
provide for training from an overseas professional entity to UEB in areas of operations, financial control,
management systems and maintenance.
6. Rehabilitation of Transmission and Distribution: This sub-component involved supply and erect
contracts for improvements in systems and substations at 132-kV, 33-kV and I l-kV on the UEB grid
throughout the country.
7. Hydropower Master Plan: The Hydropower Master Plan Study financed by the ADF aimed at
assessing all major hydro sites in the country in the context of their generation capacity and also the effect
on the total system - transmission and stability. This consultancy was done by Kennedy & Donkin Power
Limited and focused on: Load Growth Estimate, Nile River Hydrology and the least-cost development plan.
The next least-cost project was identified as the Bujagali Project.
1.3    Achievement of obiectives and outputs
The outcome of the physical and institutional components was satisfactory. The ratings for the individual
objectives are assessed as follows:
Objective 1:        Enable the Government to provide.  Highly Satisfactory
electricity through rehabilitation
and extension of the existing
generation capacity
Objective 2:        Improve service reliability in the  Highly Satisfactory
existing network of UEB
Objective 3:        Improve UEB's operational             Satisfactory
efficiency by Assisting UEB to
reform and strengthen its
Commercial operation
1.4    Outputs by Component
1.     Owen Falls Extension: With completion of the Project, the generation capacity has increased to
300 MW.
- 37 -



2.     Owen Falls Dam Remedial Works: With completion of the Project, the overall safety of the dam
structure has dramatically improved and achieved international standard requirements.
3.     Rehabilitation of the Transmission and Distribution Systems: The following projects were
executed throughout the country:
i)     Western Transmission Line                       EIB
a)     Mbarara North 132/33-kV Substation
b)     Masaka- Mbarara 132-kV Transmission Line
c)     Ishaka, Ntungamo and Ibanda 33-kV Line
d)     Distribution Transformers
ii     ACSR Conductors                                 IDA
iii    11 -kV Distribution Transformers                IDA
iv     AVRs Maziba Power Station                       IDA
v      Oil Regeneration Plant                          IDA
vi     33-kV and I l-kV Substation Construction        JICA
vii    Rehabilitation of Rural Substation              Swiss BoP Support
viii   Kampala District Diagnostic Study               IDA
ix     Urban Power Rehabilitation Project              ADF
With completion of the Project, the technical losses in transmission and distribution have improved. The
improvements can be attributed to the installation of the new overhead lines and rehabilitation of the old
line from Jinja to Kampala.
4.     Institutional Strengthening: With completion of the Project UEB recorded the following
achievements; Debtor sales ratio increased from 1:2.1 to 1:2.3; an organizational structure for decentralized
and efficient customer service was established. It is capable of servicing an additional 12,000 p.a.
customers out of the UEB customer base of about 180,000. In spite of UEB's reported progress, the
overall outcome of this assignment was still shadowed by system losses of 40% by the end of the project.
5.     Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return: At appraisal, the Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR) was estimated at 16% for major sub-projects for UEB's investment programs. Since the
extension project encountered the delays due to termination of a civil contractor and also the impact of
El-Nino rains in 1997/98, the implementation of the investment program was delayed substantially.
In spite of the delay in project implementation, the actual EIRR rose to 20% as opposed to the appraisal
estimate of 16% due to larger electricity consumption than originally anticipated.
1.5    Major factors affecting implementation and outcome
1. Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agency: Heavy rainfalls due to El Nino
during 1997/8 delayed the civil works at Owen Falls Extension Project which affected the commissioning
of Generation Units 11 and 12.
2. Factors generally subject to Government control: The main factor subject to Government of
- 38 -



Uganda's control was the adjustment of tariffs. The Government was slow in increasing tariffs in response
to the devaluation of the Uganda Shilling against the United States Dollar. The Electricity Regulatory
Authority, ERA, established under the Electricity Act 1999 raised the tariff during 2001, close to the end of
the project.
3. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: As noted earlier, UEB's management of
commercial'aspects was considered a major sector issue at the project appraisal stage. During the project
implementation, the increase in number of customers, increased cash collection and UEB staff reduction all
positively influenced the project outcome:
1.6    Sustainability
The overall project sustainability is rated as highly satisfactory. Significant transfer of knowledge took
place under the project and this should effectively support both implementation of future projects and the
maintenance and operation of the system. The forthcoming privatization of utility is expected to increase
financial viability and therefore to enhance sustainability.
1.7   Performance of participants
Funding Institutions: The following funding institutions participated in the project; World Bank (IDA),
African Development Fund (AFD), NORAD, SIDA, DANIDA, Nordic Development Fund (NDF),
European Investment Bank (EIB) and Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) for local components. Throughout
implementation of the project, the funding institutions participated with considerable zeal closely
monitoring the project through periodic supervision missions and taking appropriate remedial measures
whenever necessary.
The Borrower: The Borrower's most significant role was during negotiations for funding, up to signing of
funding agreements with respective funding institutions and on-lending agreements with UEB. During
Implementation, the Borrower's participation was mostly in processing applications for payment. The
Borrowers performance was generally satisfactory.
The Executing Agency: Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) was the Executing Agency of Third Power
Project. It played a key role right from project inception, through studies and designs and finally
procurement installation and commissioning.
1.8    Benefits of Environmental and Social Management.
The Project involved resettlement and compensation executed according to the Resettlement and
Compensation plan. The social impacts were generally limited to compensating 250 families and
institutions.
2.0    Technical Assistance to Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
Under the MEMD component, the following achievements were made:
2.1    Legal Advisory Services for Buiagali Project
The development of Independent Power Projects is a new discipline in Uganda. Consequently, local
expertise in this area is limited. M/s Hunton and Williams were retained to provide the necessary advisory
- 39 -



services to the Government of Uganda during the negotiations with the developers of the Bujagali Project.
The work covered by the consultant included the following;
*   Development of the Term Sheets for the Bujagali Project
*   Development of the financial models for the project
*   Preparation of a White Paper on the debt fmancing
*   Review of the feasibility studies undertaken by IPPs at both Bujagali and Kalagala sites
*   Development of legal documents, i.e. Implementation Agreement IA, and Power Purchase
agreement, PPA
*   Overall assistance in contract negotiations
*   Training of 7 government counterpart personnel in IPP development.
*   The Bujagali Project was successfully negotiated and the developer, AES Nile Power was licensed
to develop the 250 MW project.
2.2    Training of Ministry Officials
Under the project, a total of eight (8) ministry officials were trained up to masters level. These include the
following: Mr. J. K. Ssewanyana - MBA in Information Management;
Mr. P. Muhumuza - Msc; Mr. James Baanabe - Msc Energy Studies; Mr. John Tumuhimbise - Msc
Energy Studies; Mr. L. Bangi - Msc Energy Management; Mr. P. Kobel - Msc Energy systems; Mr. A.
Kakooza and Mr. E. Turyahabwe - Msc, Renewable Energy and the Environment.
Several staff members also undertook different short courses, seminars and workshops during the
implementation of the project. The training helped in the enhancement of performance and skills of the
various officers who participated in the training. There has been a positive impact on the sector
management and policy formulation as a result of the training.
2.3    Procurement of vehicles, computers and PABX
Under the project it was possible to acquire a total of five vehicles, computers and a telephone PABX
system for the ministry. These facilities enhanced staff performance.
2.4    Enery Audits
Conducting preliminary energy audits in industries was one of the activities carried out under the ministry
component of the Third Power project. The objective of this activity was to improve end-use efficiency,
reduce the wastage of energy and lower the peak demand which was a cause of load shedding. Under this
activity, preliminary energy audits were done in a total of six industries and advice on energy management
and rational use of energy given to management of those industries.
Although at first the industries were not keen on participating in the audits, they eventually realized the
virtues for energy efficiency in their industries and exhibited considerable cooperation with ministry staff
conducting the audits. As a result of this preliminary work, many industries and commercial buildings
have embraced energy management. Several recommendations made have been adopted resulting into
savings. Detailed audits have also been performed at a cement factory and a brewery, with impressive.
results.
-40 -



2.5    Household Energy Initiatives
Activities under the Household Energy Initiatives sub-component centered on the dissemination of
improved efficiency cook stoves in the rural areas. Practical skills in the design, construction and operation
of the improved efficiency stoves were imparted to selected women and youth leaders in the various
districts by the ministry teams through Training of Trainers (TOT) workshops. Under this sub-component,
a total of 200 women and youths were trained in the design and construction of improved efficiency stoves.
Basing on this work, the Dutch Government took interest in this activity and provided funding for it. To
date some 12,000 improved efficiency stoves have been built, resulting in big savings of wood fuel. The
users of these stoves have the additional benefit of a cleaner kitchen environment free from smoke.
3.0    Transaction Advisors for the Privatization of UEB
Under the project, Transaction advisors on the Privatization of UEB were taken on board to offer support
to Government in the privatization exercise.
Principal activities and results accomplished
*   Advised government on policy issues faced by the GoU regarding (a) the number of distribution
companies to be created out of UEB, to be one (b) the number of operating concessions to be let at
Kiira and Nalubaale, also to be one, and the timing of and ultimate transition from the Single
Buyer Market model which will occur after the end of the concession term;
*   Re-valued UEB's operational assets;
*   Quantified UEB's distribution, transmission and generation investment needs;
*   Performed an environmental assessment of UEB.
*   Advised on the unbundling of UEB into its respective functions and the assignment of assets and
delegation of liabilities accordingly;
*   Modelled the system and established procedures for the development of a transparent tariff-setting
mechanism;
*   Advised on tariffs and assisted on the implementation of a full-cost recovery tariff;
*   Assisted the investment bank prepare and issue the RFP's for UEDC and UEGC concessions;
*   Prepared draft contracts, licenses and codes; and
*   Assisted in bidder due diligence and interaction between bidders and GoU.
Status of the current contract implementation schedule milestones
*   Milestone I - Inception Report - delivered on May 15, 2000;
*   Milestone 2 - Report on recommendations for strategy decisions: Owens Falls, number of
distribution companies, transition from single buyer model - delivered on July 15, 2000;
*   Milestone 3 - Report on market feedback from first presentation - delivered on July 22, 2000;
*   Milestone 4 - Draft TOR and recommended Short-list for Investment Banks - delivered on July
27, 2000;
*   Milestone 5 - Legal & Regulatory Review Report and Drafts of Licenses, Codes, and Concession
and other Agreements - delivered on August 15, 2000;
*   Milestone 6 - Briefing notes and discussion papers for stakeholders - delivered as required;
*   Milestone 7 - Report on transmission and distribution investment needs analysis - draft version
delivered on September 15, 2000; final version delivered on October 15, 2000;
*   Milestone 8 - UEB assets and liabilities valuations, proforma financial statements, etc. (including
environmental assessment report) - delivered October 15, 2000;
-41 -



*   Milestone 9 - 2nd Market Consultation - Held in London on October 24, 25-26, 2000;
*   Milestone 10- Social Impact Assessment - Originally by November 15, delivered April 15, 2001;
*   Milestone 11 - Report on 2nd Market Consultation - delivered on November 23, 2000;
*   Milestone 12 - Technical input to information memorandum - by December 15, 2000 - all
materials delivered; RFP issued September 2001;
* Milestone 13 - Pre-qualification terms and conditions - by December 15, 2000 - delivered on
November 23, 2000;
*   Milestone 14 - Road Show - by December 31, 2000 - First official marketing presentation take
place on June 25, 2001 in Lyon France;
* Tariff Analysis Report - no due date - as required - delivered November 20th. Continuing input
provided as necessary;
*   Milestone 15 - Pre-qualification report, including list of recommended pre-qualified bidders - by
January 15, 2001 - see below - Also note that the TA created a draft Pre-Qualification report and
delivered it to the URU in November, 2000. This document was also sent to Fieldstone in May,
2001 for their guidance. The TA is not contractually obligated to have drafted this report; rather it
is the responsibility of Fieldstone. The Pre-Qualification was finalized and released on June 25,
2001;
*   Milestone 16 - Data Room, and guidelines / procedures for access - completed August, 2001;
*   Milestone 17 - Valuation Report for each concession - delivered January 15, 2002;
*   Milestone 18 - Methodology for consultation with pre-qualified bidders (technical input) - by
January 15, 2002 - Technical Input delivered to URU and Fieldstone. Delay caused by late
appointment of Investment Bank;
*   Milestone 19 - Bidding documents, including terms and conditions and final versions of all relevant
contracts. (Technical input) - by January 15, 2002 - Documents delivered to URU and Investment
Bank in May, 2001. Late delivery due to late engagement of Investment Bank;
* Milestone 20 - Updated pro-forma financial statements for each concession - Delivered January 15
2001;
*   Analysis of bidders' comments and suggested course of action to be prepared for PTC, ERA, MoJ
and DRIC. - Early January, 2002;
*   Bidders conferences held in January 2002;
*   Meetings with PTC, ERA, MoJ and DRIC to obtain closure on bid structure subsequent to January
bidder meetings. - Late January, 2002;
*   Final revision of bid documents - February, 2002; and
*   Bid Evaluation and Post Transaction Support - March and April 2002.
-42 -



RIBD 22738RI
L 30'                                                                        4                                   36'
NN30                          (-1       32,                                  34' /UGANDA
r4.         '-.                           \S   U   D  A     N                                                      THIRD POWER PROJECT                     4 |
9-                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJEC  EXISTINR
\ {-                               - < Y N r                                              - t  -   / _ _  132   kV   PO W ER   LIN ES
-  66 kv POWER LINES
Pd;  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     33 kv' POWER LINES
Lr.                      ------  I~~~~~~~~~~1 I kv POWER LINES
-0 i                        Pager                  eq          A                         -    m  HYDRO ELECTRIC GENERATING STATIONS
ip                                                KaO  P   l   Pclub   1-  tchdo SW  A *    DIESEL GENERATING STATIONS
DEMOCRATIC         ToAbj . UIpp  (
REPUBLIC                            R S   nk     >C      cs          Etg        }    \ 
O F CO N GO          -< Gcl.1\ , N i                            <mtoA                 _ /                                PRIMARY ROADS
P.                      0                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
'. <>-1  g   +  < > 4  (Xv  {/J9  g 9  o SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
0   DISTRICT CAPITALS
2|                                                                                                                     -'9 R Na >* --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
6fiabo                    K...,.          ,- k        0
0       s0      100     IS0
Hai                             Kyaga                m                               _  __32  _ 3__ _36             MAY 200i
-J                 ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
f  6,                                B.9.p.N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jke  Rt *.) .        Thi, mop s,pr-ducd by oho Mop DoinUni of Th. World Bock.
Pe9oyojlckcao  0No -  MIOTO       ~~~The bo-dorie, color, denoinaton  ond osyohl W-t- 
Nko ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nthis mop do norimply, o- she Port . Thre World Bock Grap, any
'Lu.ero ~ Ni~bi( -  '                                  -c.ocptonc  of suh hoadroi-
Fortc-0   P eorge              '<B
3  oRcee   -     Or~ ~   ~~~~G.6  Joke  '
kr,
Nhr9smc  NokicoLiketVictoria
S.  Koko   '  or'   - - - --~  ~ -   - -  - - -   - - -   - - - - - - - -- 
RWAREDA                                                                    N~~~~TA  AN 
MAY 2002









IMAGING
Report No.:        24406
Type:     ICR



