Page  1
                                                      October 8, 1992
The Honorable Dr. J.S. Mayanja Nkangi
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala
Uganda
Re: Third Power Project
(Credit Number 2268 UG)
Amendment
Dear Mister Minister
     I refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the International
Development Association (the Association) and the Project
Agreement between the Association and Uganda Electrity Board (UEB)
for the above referenced Project dated January 9, 1992. I also
refer to the provisions of Section 6.01.(d) and (e) of the
Development Credit Agreement which, as conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement require UEB to
(1) make appropriate adjustments to its accounts to reflect UEB's
revalued net fixed assets, and (2) to appoint consultants to,
inter alia, investigate and advise on any necessary dam measures
and produce a work program and associated bidding documents
required to ensure the safety of the Owen Falls Dam.
         We have noted that the revaluation of UEB's net fixed
assets required under Section 6.01 (d) of the Development Credit
Agreement has been completed but that accounts reflecting such
evaluation have not been completed.  We have also noted that UEB
has appointed consultants to investigate and advise on dam safetv
measures and that a panel of experts has reviewed the consultants'
report and have endorsed the consultants' views that furhter
monitoring and investigation should proceed before anv physical
remedial works are contemplated.
In order to enable the Borrower and UEB to complete the actions
required under Sections 6.01 (d) and (e) of the Development Credit
Agreement, and to avoid a further delay in the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement, the Association agree to make
the conditions referred to in Sections 6.01 (d) and (e) of the
Development Credit Agreement, conditions of disbursement of credit
funds for the Civil Works component of the Project.  Accordingly
we propose to amend the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
1.    Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
      Paragraphs (d) and (e) are deleted, and paragraph (f) is
      renumbered as paragraph (d).
2.    Schedule I paragraph 2(c) (ii) of the Development Credit
      Agreement
      2.1 The word 'and' at the end of sub-paragraph 2(c)(ii) is
      deleted.
      2.2 The '.' at the end of sub-paragraph 2(c) (ii) (3) is
      deleted, and the following sub-
      paragraphs 2 (c) (ii) (4) and 2(c) (ii) (5) are added to
      read as follows:
      "(4)" UEB's net fixed assets have been revalued and
      appropriate adjustments made to its
      accounts, and
      (5) consultants to be employed by UEB, in accordance with
      terms of reference satisfactory
      to the Association, have investigated and advised on any dam
      measures and
      a work program and associated bidding-documents required to
Page  2
      ensure the safety
      of the Owen Falls Dam, and a panel of experts, with a
      composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the
      Association, has been appointed by UEB and has reviewed the
      consultants' proposals for dam safety measures, and has also
      reviewed and advised on the technical and safety aspects of
      the Project structure".
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing, proposed
      amendment by signing, dating and returning the enclosed copy
      of this letter to us, at which time the amendment shall
      constitute a binding agreement between the Borrower and the
      Association.
Very truly yours,
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Francis X. Colaio
Director
Africa Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative, Minister of Finance and Economic
Planning
Date October 8, 1992
