INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                           1818 H Street, N.W.            Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                               Washington, D.C. 20433          Fax: (202) 522-0916
                                               U.S.A.                         Email: ipanel@worldbank.org




IPN REQUEST RQ01/3

                                                                              August 7, 2001


                                     NOTICE OF REGISTRATION


  Re: Request for Inspection ­ UGANDA: Third Power Project (Credit No. 2268-UG) and
                           Fourth Power Project (Credit No. 3545-UG)


        On July 27, 2001, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection
(the "Request") dated July 25, 2001 related to the above-referenced Projects. The Request was
submitted by the National Association of Professional Environmentalists (NAPE) and Save the
Bujagali Crusade (SBC), as well as other local organizations and individuals (the "Requesters").

        The Request claims that the failures and omissions of the International Development
Association (hereinafter the "Bank") in the design, appraisal, and implementation of the above-
referenced Projects have materially affected their rights and interests and are likely to jeopardize
their future social, cultural, and environmental security. More specifically, the Requesters claim,
inter alia, that the extension of the Owens Falls dam and the construction of the Bujagali dam
have resulted or may result in social, economic and environmental harm to the local population
including increases in electricity tariffs, negative effects on tourism activities and serious impacts
on fisheries. The Requesters also claim they have been harmed or are likely to be harmed as a
result of, inter alia, failure to undertake an environmental assessment of the Owens Falls
extension; the lack of a cumulative environmental assessment related to the dams already built,
under construction, and in the final stages of design; inadequate involuntary resettlement
(including compensation arrangements); inadequate consultation, participation and disclosure of
information; lack of economic and technical analysis, including lack of alternative economic
analysis, especially in the case of the Owens Falls extension dam.

        The Requesters' allegations could constitute violations of, inter alia, various provisions of
the following Bank Policies and Procedures:

        OD/OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
        OP 4.04 on Natural Habitats
        OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples
        OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement




                                                                                                      1

Notice of Registration

        OP 4.37 on Safety of Dams
        OPN 11.03 on Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Project
        OP 10.04 on Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
        OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction
        BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information
        OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation
        OD 13.05 on Project Supervision

        All communications with the Requesters in connection with the Request will, until further
notice, be sent to NAPE's President, Mr. Muramuzi Frank, at the address listed below.

        In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the "Operating
Procedures"), I have, on August 7, 2001, which is also the date of the dispatch of this notice,
registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Due to the fact that the Panel's
"registration" process is often misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that "registration" is an
administrative procedure established by the Panel and that it implies no judgment whatsoever
concerning the eligibility of the Request.

        In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
"Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the "1999 Clarifications"),
and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management has been notified that it
must provide the Panel, no later than September 6, 2001, with written evidence that it has
complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures in relation to the
above-referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management must deal with in a response to
the Request is set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the Request
meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to
the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."

        The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ01/3


                                        Yours sincerely,




                                         Jim MacNeill




                                                                                                2

Notice of Registration

       cc:    Mr. Muramuzi Frank
              National Association of Professional Environmentalists
              P.O. Box 29909
              Uganda

              Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
              President
              International Development Association
              Room MC12-750

              The Executive Directors and Alternates
              International Development Association




                                                                        3

