Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19138
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS I
Loan 3319-POL
April 21, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1998)
Currency Unit        Zloty Polski (PLN)
US$1         3.473 PLN
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES a'
1991       1992        1993       1994        1995        1996       1997        1998
1.056      1.363       1.815      2.273       2.424      2.698       3.281       3.550
a/ adjusted for the introduction of the new Polish Zloty in 1995.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECU  - European Currency Unit
EIB  -  European Investment Bank
EU  - European Union
FY   - Fiscal Year
GSM   -  Global System Mobile
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB  -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR  -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA  - International Development Association
IPO  - Initial Public Offering
ITU  -  International Telecommunication Union (Geneva)
MoC  - Ministry of Communications (fornerly MTPT)
MTPT  - Ministry of Transport, Post & Telecommunications
OCCP  -  Office of Competition and Consumer Protection
OED  -  Operations Evaluation Department
PHARE  - EU grant program
PPTT  - Polska Poszta, Telegraf i Telefon
SAR  -  Staff Appraisal Report
TA  -  Technical Assistance
TPSA  -  Telekomunikacja Polska S.A. (formerly PPTT)
POLAND'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Basil G. Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Leader: Henk Busz, ECSEG
Team Leader: Svetoslav Tintchev, EMTTI



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
TELECOMMUNICATIIONS I
(LOAN 3319-POL)
Contents
Preface .................................i
Evaluation Summary ..................................                                                              iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..................................                   .I
A. Background ..................................I
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives .................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................... ..9
E. Project Sustainability .................................                                             10
F. Bank Performance ..................................11
G. Borrower Performance ................................. .11
H. Assessment of Outcome ................................. .                                            12
I. Future Operations .................................                                                  12
J.  Key Lessons Learned ................................. 12
Part II. Statistical Tables .................................                                                     14
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .................................                                      14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................                                  16
Table 3:  Project Timetable .................................                                           16
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................. 16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................. 17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ....................................................      18
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project ....................................................             19
Table 8A: Project Costs ....................................................                            21
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................... 21
Table 9:   Economic and Costs and Benfits ..............................            ...................... 22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..................                  .................................. 23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................... ............ 24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................             24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                 25
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map IBRD 22862
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
TELCOMMUNICATIONS I - LOAN 3319-POL
Preface
This is the Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Telecommunications I
Project in the Republic of Poland, for which Loan 3319-POL in the amount of US$ 120.0 million
equivalent was approved on April 23, 1991 and made effective on December 9, 1991.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June
30, 1996. On March 13, 1996, the Borrower canceled US$ 25.00 million. Final disbursement took
place on December 22, 1998, for a total disbursed amount of US$ 93.0 million, at which time a
balance of US$ 1.97 million was canceled. Co-financing for the project was provided by the
European Investment Bank (EIB), the Borrower's internal resources, and grant financing from the
PHARE grant program of the European Union (EU).
This ICR was prepared by Svet Tintchev and Alberto Cruzat of the
Telecommunications and Informatics Unit (EMTTI), and reviewed by Basil Kavalsky, Country
Director ECCO9, and Henk Busz, Sector Leader, ECSEG. The Borrower provided conmnents that
are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in October 1998. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire and
preparing its own contribution and evaluation of the Project's execution.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS I - LOAN 3319-POL
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.   The late 1980's were a period of great political and economic change in Poland. Severe
economic difficulties led to social and industrial unrest. The collapse of the Berlin Wall, the
Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union had dramatic implications, and led to the end of communist
rule in the summer of 1990. A new reform government immediately began implementing an
economic transformation program, with an emphasis on drastic macroeconomic stabilization, the
removal of price controls and of international trade barriers, cuts in subsidies, increasing
substantially the role of the private sector, and putting in place suitable safety nets. The program
received widespread support from the international financial community.
2.   In terms of access to and quality of telecommunications service, the performance of the
national monopoly operator, Polska Poszta, Telegraf i Telefon (PPTT), was poor. At the end of
1989, there were 3.1 million lines in operation, giving a teledensity of 8.23 per 100 inhabitants,
second only to Albania as the lowest in the region. More than two million potential subscribers
were estimated to be on the waiting list. The network was obsolete and unreliable. Call
completion rates averaged less than 40 percent, and as low as 10 percent in busy periods. A
World Bank mission in 1986 (WB Report No. 6736-POL) concluded that the
telecommunications network was one of the worst in Europe and a serious impediment to overall
economic development.
3.  Although Poland had re-joined the Bank in 1986, the first loan was only approved in
February 1990. Thereafter, the Bank's portfolio grew rapidly. This project was one of twelve
approved by the Board in the first half of 1991 with a total value of US$ 1,140 million. It was
designed to quickly expand the network and improve operations. A fuller sector strategy was to
be elaborated in the context of a planned second telecommunications project.
Project Development Objectives
4.   The main aims of the project were to: (a) strengthen and expand the national trunk network
and make selected improvements in the international and local networks in order to rapidly
relieve congestion and improve services for business; (b) increase the efficiency of
telecommunications operations; and (c) improve quality of service. It was to be implemented
during the period 1991 to 1995.



iv
5.    The main components of the project were physical and institutional. The physical
investment program, accounting for more 75 percent of the total loan value, consisted of
construction of an overlay digital long-distance network, expansion of international
communications capability, and decongestion of the Warsaw and Katowice multi-exchange local
networks, connecting at the same time the majority of high traffic business subscribers to these
new digital facilities. The main institutional components aimed to strengthen the organization
and management of Telekomunikacja Polska S.A. (TPSA, the successor to PPTT) through
training, implementing new commercial and financial systems, and developing tariff strategies.
A small component was also included to strengthen the regulatory expertise of the Ministry.
6.   The project's objectives were modest, concentrating on investment in network expansion.
Important reforms, such as a new law providing for corporatization of PPTT and allowing new
operators to be licensed, were agreed as a condition for loan effectiveness. OED (WB Report
No. 16495, April 1997) noted that the project, although a success in financial terms, provided
inadequate preparation for competition. More fundamental reforms, which were an increasing
feature of other Bank telecommunications operations at that time, would have taken more time to
prepare. These were left for a future project which in the event did not materialize. It is
possible, but not certain, that additional preparation time would have contributed to deeper
reforms sooner than actually transpired.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.  All of the physical components of the project were successfully implemented. Grant
financing from the EU's PHARE program became available after the loan was signed, and it
was decided that it would be used to finance the technical assistance previously identified for
53RD funding. Equipment prices were lower than estimated at appraisal due to technological
progress and competitive procurement. This resulted in the IBRD-financed equipment which
had been specified in the SAR costing only US$80 million, almost 30 percent less than
estimated. In May 1996, TPSA decided to cancel US$ 25 million from the loan, and the Bank
agreed that the remaining uncommitted amount of approximately US$ 15.0 million be utilized
for the procurement of additional equipment.
8.  The project contributed to significant growth and to improved operational and financial
performance of TPSA. The number of connected subscriber lines increased from 3.5 million in
1991 to 8.4 million in 1998, and is expected to reach 10.2 million by year 2000. The telephone
density (measured by fixed lines per 100 people) thus grew from 9.8 in 1991 to 21.61 in 1998,
well above the regional average. Service quality improved significantly, in part through network
digitalization supported by the project. The number of faults per month per 100 subscribers
decreased from 8 in 1989 to around 2 in 1998. Call completion rates increased from around 38
percent in 1991 to more than 75 percent in 1998. In addition, the new digital switches allowed
the introduction of modern services, such as conference calling, call forwarding, local call
metering, and a variety of data services, including access to the Internet. The number of villages
without access to telecommunications fell from around 4,500 in 1991 to 881 in June 1997, and is
expected to be zero at the end of 1999.
9.  TPSA's financial performance improved significantly. Revenues grew from US$ 501
million in 1989 to US$ 2.7 billion in 1997, while profits grew from US$ 83 million to US$ 331



v
million during the same period. The book value of shareholders funds' doubled to around US$
2.5 billion. TPSA's staff productivity also doubled. Progress was made on tariff re-balancing.
In November 1998, 15 percent of its shares were sold through an Initial Public Offering on the
Warsaw Stock Exchange raising more than US$ 900 million, and giving the company a market
capitalization of around US$ 6.2 billion. A further stake of between 25 and 35 percent is
expected to be sold to a strategic partner in 1999. In 1997, the Bank granted a waiver on
compliance with two financial covenants (tariff adjustment and operating ratio) which had
become inappropriate in TPSA's new operating environment. The Internal Rate of Return on the
project is calculated at 18 percent and is considered satisfactory.
10. The policy, legal and regulatory environment within which TPSA operated changed
significantly over the life of the project. New legislation which was a condition for effectiveness
of the loan was enacted in 1991. It transformed PPTT into a joint stock company (known as
TPSA), strengthened the regulatory function of the Ministry of Communications (MoC), and
authorized a number of new participants in the sector. Further policy and legal changes were
made during the 1990s, with the Bank actively advising on policy and legal issues. Mobile
service was introduced in 1991 and has grown rapidly - at the end of 1998, there were an
estimated 2 million mobile subscribers. Pending the establishment of an independent regulatory
body, which has been delayed and is now expected by the end of 1999, regulatory issues have
been dealt with by the MoC and the Office of Competition and consumer Protection (OCCP).
There have been numerous complaints to both the OCCP and the courts from mobile and local
operators against TPSA concerning pricing, competition and inter-connection issues. The
evolution of sector structure from 1989 to 1998 is seen in Figures A and B below.
Figure A                                           Figure B
Poland - Teleconmmunications Sector - 1989        Poland - TelecommunicatJons Sec
_, Poiy                                            Ponef
- --- -Ministry of Communications  .*
itego1tlo                                          Rogplatino
Polska Poszta, Telegraf   I  - -----                             _         , -- - - - - - - -
Telefon (PPTl)       N,t,fok                                             N.r.k
(Part of Ministry of Transport,  nusationa_  Telekomunikacja  Cella      I aiost
Post and Telecommunications)               P Poiska S.A.   (TPSA)    piC L, a Dg
Otatance      ~~~~~(Joint Stock Company wisth ~ ~ Dsac
'  OOI           15%  shares sold through IPO  in  .   inta3
- November 1998)        IRV
| C u gtemers for Tdecommunictonn So-nicJvices|
-                     __stomers far Ieleeomnsonication Serviges  Proegalso  Customers for Telecommunication Serviets  I,Prdovo
11. At the time of project preparation, it was intended to follow up with a sector survey to
guide a more broadly based second telecommunications project. The survey resulted in the
preparation of a new US$ 400 million project, which was appraised in 1994. It did not proceed
to negotiations. Ostensibly, TPSA's board wanted to see the first loan drawn down more (less
than half of the US$ 120 million had been disbursed at the time). However, there remained a
sense on the Polish side that dialogue on critical institutional issues had not advanced to the point
of readiness for formal negotiations and that the Bank strategy in the sector did not fully match



vi
the Polish position. In addition, TPSA's strengthened financial position, and its consequent
access to other new sources of funding, made IBRD financing less attractive.
Bank and Borrower Performance
12. The performance of the borrower is assessed as highly satisfactory. The performance of
the Bank is assessed as satisfactory.
Project Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
13. Sustainability. All of the project's objectives were achieved. TPSA's operational and
financial performance is projected to improve further. The successful conclusion of the IPO in
November 1998, and plans to secure a strategic partner, will further strengthen TPSA's ability to
grow and compete.
14. Assessment of Outcome. The project outcome is satisfactory.
Lessons Learned
15. The experience of this project confirms that the Bank's primary value-added in
telecommunications today lies not in resource mobilization, but in the provision of quality advice
in support of sector reform prograns. At the time of project preparation, when financial leverage
was high, the Bank was influential in negotiating a number of important reform steps. The
relative value of the Bank's financial contribution declined over the life of the project as TPSA's
financial position improved and it gained access to attractive new sources of finance.
16. As TPSA became operationally and commercially stronger, it developed supply
relationships with a limited number of equipment vendors. This is common practice in the
industry, where operators value highly the reliability, speed of supply, equipment compatibility
and lower risks which these arrangements bring. Although TPSA's procurement policies were
competitive, tensions arose with the Bank's procurement guidelines, which require ICB for each
contract and are more time-consuming. This indicates that in certain circumstances, the Bank's
guidelines are not compatible with procurement practices of successful commercial enterprises,
and are considered unattractive by them.
17. Traditional loan covenants can prove constraining as a borrower moves from a position of
weakness to one of financial strength, and from operating as a state enterprise to a commercial
business, especially in a fast-changing industry. For example, the application of the inflation
related tariff adjustment, although it would have strengthened TPSA's financial position as
intended, was correctly opposed by the competition authority on the grounds that consumers
should benefit from the cost savings in the industry. In circumstances such as these, there is a
need to be prepared to amend or waive covenants to more appropriately reflect the changed
circumstances, and to do so on a more timely basis.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS I
(Loan 3319-POL)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background
1.   The project was prepared and appraised in 1989 and 1990, a period of great political and
economic change in Poland. Severe economic difficulties had built up in the late 1980's leading
to social and industrial unrest. The collapse of the Berlin Wall, the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet
Union had dramatic implications, and led to the end of communist rule in the summer of 1990.
A new reform government immediately began implementing an economic transformation
program, with an emphasis on drastic macroeconomic stabilization, the removal of price controls
and of international trade barriers, cuts in subsidies, increasing substantially the role of the
private sector, and putting in place suitable safety nets. The program received widespread
support from the international financial community.
2.   Although Poland had re-joined the Bank in 1986, the first loan was only approved in
February 1990. Thereafter, the Bank's portfolio grew rapidly and the project was one of twelve
approved by the Board in the first half of 1991 with a total value of US$ 1,140 million. A Bank
mission in 1986 (WB Report No. 6736-POL) had concluded that the Polish telecommunications
network was one of the worst in Europe and a serious impediment to overall economic
development. In this context, the project was designed to quickly expand the network and
improve its operations. A fuller sector strategy was to be more fully elaborated in the context of
a planned second telecommunications project.
3.    Figure 1 shows the structure of the telecommunications sector in 1989. Policy, regulation
and operation were concentrated in the state-owned monopoly, Polska Poszta, Telegraf i Telefon
(PPTT), which was part of the Ministry of Transport, Post and Telecommunications (MTPT). In
terms of access to and quality of service, PPTT was one of the poorest performing operators in
the region. At the end of 1989, there were 3.1 million lines in operation, giving a tele-density of
8.23 per 100 inhabitants, second only to Albania as the lowest. More than two million potential
subscribers were estimated to be on the waiting list. The network was obsolete and unreliable.
For example, the call completion rate varied from 38 percent for long-distance calls to as low as
10 percent in some urban areas at high traffic periods.



2
Figure 1
Poland - Telecommunications Sector - 1989
Policy
Regulation
Polska Poszta, Telegraf I            -.
Telefon (PPTT)                   Network
Operation
International
(Part of Ministry of Transport,     Long
Posts and Telecommunications)      Distance
Local
v               v                    T     z Service
Customers for Telecommunication Services       Provision
4.    The legal framework governing the sector was the Communications Law of 1984, which
specified that telecommunications and postal services were to be provided by a state-owned
monopoly, PPTT, as part of the MTPT. In principle, the MTPT had regulatory authority and set
national communications policy. In practice, lines of responsibility were not clearly separated
and PPTT was performing licensing (private networks) and regulatory functions
(interconnection, tariffs).
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives:
5.    Project Development Objectives: The project aimed to: (a) strengthen and expand the
national trunk network and make selected improvements in the international and local networks
in order to rapidly relieve congestion and improve services for business; (b) increase the
efficiency of telecommunications operations; and (c) improve quality of service. The intention
was to follow up with a sector survey and a second project, which would play a significant role
in financing TPSA's medium- and long-term (five to ten years) development plan.
6.    Main project components: The physical investment program, which accounted for more
75 percent (US$ 91.9 million) of the total loan value, consisted of construction of an overlay
digital long-distance network, expansion of international communications capability, and
decongestion of the Warsaw and Katowice multi-exchange local networks, connecting at the



3
same time the majority of high traffic business subscribers to these new digital facilities. The
overlay digital long-distance network had the following components: (i) 12 trunk exchanges, 10
of which would have local exchange capability; (ii) 16 microwave routes; (iii) 1,000 km of
optical fiber cable; and (iv) a first-phase network control center. The international network
expansion consisted of a EUTELSAT ground station and five microwave routes.
7.    The components to support the strengthening of the borrower's organization and
management included: (i) technical training (network design and technologies); (ii) modern
commercial financial systems and management; (iii) tariff strategies; and (iv) management
training. A small component was also included to strengthen the regulatory expertise of the
Ministry.
8.  Evaluation of Project Objectives: The project's objectives were modest, concentrating on
investment in network expansion.  Important reforms, such as a new law providing for
corporatization of PPTT and allowing new operators to be licensed, were agreed as a condition
for loan effectiveness. OED (WB Report No. 16495, April 1997) noted that the project, although
a success in financial terms, provided inadequate preparation for competition. More fundamental
reforms, which were an increasing feature of other Bank telecommunications operations at that
time, would have taken more time to prepare. These were left for a future project which in the
event did not materialize. It is possible, but not certain, that additional preparation time would
have contributed to deeper reforms sooner than actually transpired.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
Physical Components
9.  Equipment. All of the physical components of the project were successfully implemented.
The overall cost of the project was estimated to be US$ 378.70 million at appraisal, with the
Bank contributing US$ 120.0 million (see Part II, Tables 8A and 8B). Equipment prices were
lower than estimated at appraisal due to technological progress and competitive procurement.
This resulted in the IBRD-financed equipment specified in the SAR costing only US$ 80 million,
almost 30 percent less than estimated. In May 1996, Telekomunikacja Polska S.A. (TPSA), the
successor to PPTT, decided to cancel US$ 25 million from the Loan, and the Bank agreed that
the remaining uncommitted amount of approximately US$ 15.0 million be utilized for the
procurement of additional transmission equipment.  This component was successfully
implemented. Minor changes were made to the equipment specification immediately after board
approval, by which the Bank financed more fiber optic cable in place of switching equipment.
10. Impact on access and service quality. During project implementation, the number of
installed lines increased from 3.7 million in 1991, to 9.3 million in 1998, and is expected to reach
11.3 million lines by year 2000. The number of connected subscriber lines increased from 3.5
million in 1991, to 8.4 million in 1998, and it is expected to reach 10.2 million by year 2000.
With this rapid expansion, the telephone density (measured by fixed lines per 100 people) grew
from 9.8 in 1991 to 21.61 in 1998. Poland thus moved from being well below the regional



4
average to being in line with the average for Tier 1 EU Accession countries' (20.94 per 100) and
above the regional average (17.8 per 100). Although expected to reach 26.2 per 100 by year
2000, it still lags behind the EU average of over 40. The national network digitalization and
upgrade of switching and transmission facilities funded by this project contributed to this growth.
11. The quality of service improved significantly, in part through network digitalization
supported by the project. The number of faults per month per 100 subscribers decreased from 8
in 1989 to around 2 in 1998. The number of manual switches decreased from more than 2,300 in
1991 to less than 200 in 1998. All are expected to be replaced by automatic switches by year
2000. Simultaneously, subscriber call completion rate has increased from around 38 percent in
1991 to more than 75 percent in 1998. In addition, the new digital switches allowed the
introduction of modem services, such as conference calling, call forwarding, local call metering,
and a variety of data services, including access to the Internet.
12. Rural telecommunications were not directly financed by the project. However, during
project preparation, the Bank advocated liberalization measures which resulted in the licensing
of more than 100 local operators. Following the publication of the national telecommunications
policy in 1991, a National Project for Rural Development was approved and financed by the
State Budget. In 1991, there were 4,500 villages without access to telecommunication services.
As a result of the participation of TPSA and the newly licensed local operators, this number
decreased to 1,302 by December 31, 1996 and to 881 by June 30, 1997. It is expected that
during 1999 all villages expressing interest will have access to teleconmnunications services2.
Institutional Development Components
13. As part of project preparation, a new legal framework for the sector was agreed and put
into place. It provided for the conversion of PPTT, then a part of the sector ministry, into a
corporate entity which became known as TPSA. The structure of the sector following these
changes in 1991 is seen in Figure 2.
1   Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Poland and Slovenia.
2   There is no clear definition of what is considered "rural". The administrative division of Poland includes 860 cities and
towns, and 56,797 villages.



5
Figure 2
Poland - Telecommunications Sector- 1991
Ministry of Communications             Policy
iNetwork
Operation
Telekomunilacia                   Interational
Polska S.A. ( TPSA)                  Lon_
I rvt    Long
(joint Stock Company 1 00%  [1tols Distance
owned by govemment)
Local
Service
Customers for Telecommunication Set-Vices  Provision
14. The project as initially designed included provision for IBRD financing for technical
assistance for institutional development. Grant financing was subsequently made available by
the EU's PHARE program. By agreement, PHARE became the principal financier of technical
assistance, and the portion of the IBRD loan identified for financing these activities was included
in the amount of US$ 25 million which was cancelled in 1996. The specific studies and
activities are listed in Part II, Table 7.
15. Staff Productivity. TPSA's productivity improved by more than 100 percent during project
implementation, from 19.5 staff per 1,000 subscriber lines in 1991 to 9.12 in 1998. It is expected
to reach 7.5 by year 2000. The most efficient telephone companies in the world have equivalent
ratios of around 5.0. These improvements were achieved without a net reduction in staff
employed - at the end of 1998, the total number of staff was 73,000 compared to 68,000 in 1991.
16. Financial Performance. TPSA's financial performance throughout project implementation
was satisfactory. Revenues grew from US$ 501 million in 1989 to US$ 2.7 billion in 1997,
while profits grew from US$ 83 million to US$ 331 million during the same period. The book
value of shareholders funds' doubled to around US$ 2.5 billion, while the market value of the
company at the time of the Initial Public Offering (IPO) in November 1998 was USD$ 6.2
billion. Selected financial performance indicators are provided in Part II, Table 5.
17. Auditing and Accounting. The reliability of the accounting system improved following the
introduction of a modem computer system, which was partially financed by PHARE. The
financial and accounting systems were further extensively revised and improved during the



6
preparation of the privatization. Audits of TPSA's accounts were performed on-time each year
since 1991 by internationally recognized auditing firms in full compliance with the provisions of
the loan agreement.
18.  Tariffs. Due to the high levels of inflation in the early 1 990s, a quarterly inflation-related
tariff adjustment was agreed as a loan covenant3. The fall in the inflation rate, TPSA's planned
privatization, and the opening of the market to competition made the covenant inappropriate.
The Office of Competition and Consumer Protection (OCCP) correctly opposed inflation-related
tariff adjustments in an industry experiencing significant cost reductions, and in which
consumers in other countries were benefiting from falling prices. Accurate monitoring of the
compliance with the covenant was made more difficult by tariff re-balancing.4  Supervision
missions thus monitored compliance in broad terms, by observing whether revenues were
broadly adequate to cover costs. Recognizing the progressively declining relevance of the
covenant, the borrower requested a waiver of the covenant, which the Bank approved in
December 1997.
19. Operating Ratio. The Borrower did not fully comply with the covenanted operating ratio'.
Increased depreciation charges resulting from investment levels higher than those projected
during appraisal and the increased competitive environment combined to put pressure on
operating margins. In the period 1994 to 1997, the ratio varied between 77 percent and 82
percent compared to the target of 75 percent. Nevertheless, supervision missions during this
period recorded the covenant as being in compliance, believing that the company's performance
was satisfactory in the changed circumstances. In order to regularize this situation, the Bank
issued a waiver in December 1997, valid until December 31, 1998. Following a further request
from TPSA and its privatization advisers, the Bank extended, in November 1998, the validity of
the waiver until December 31, 1999.
20. Internal Rate of Return. The actual internal rate of return (IRR) is calculated at 18%,
compared to 27% in the SAR, and is considered satisfactory. The calculation of the IRR is
shown in Part II, Table 9.
Sector Restructuring
21. Legal Framework and Sector Structure. The sector structure within which TPSA operated
changed substantially during the life of the project. A new Post and Telecommunications Act,
which was a condition for effectiveness of the loan, was passed in late 1990 and became
3   Section 5.03 of the Loan Agreement stipulates quarterly adjustments of the level of tariffs by an amount equivalent to the
increase in the domestic inflation index.
4   Traditional tariff structures in telecommunications, whereby domestic and residential consumers were subsidized by higher
tariffs for international and business traffic respectively, began to break down as markets were opened to competition
putting pressure on operators to re-balance towards cost-related tariffs.
S   Section 5.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement stipulates that the ratio of total operating costs (including all taxes) to total
operating revenues should not exceed 80 percent for fiscal year 1992 and 75 percent for each fiscal year thereafter.



7
effective on January 16, 1991. It transformed the telecommunications activities of the state-
owned PPTT into a joint stock company, TPSA. The Ministry of Communications (MoC)
became the licensing authority and regulator. The law also removed the monopoly on ownership
of public-switched networks by authorizing both the existing private networks (railways, power,
and mining) to operate and by licensing new operating entities. With the subsequent adoption of
various amendments, it served as the foundation for the liberalization which took place over the
course of the project. In the case of railways and power networks, they were authorized to
provide domestic long distance service. Mobile service began in October 1991, and has seen
rapid growth. By the end of 1998, there were three mobile operators (one of which is majority-
owned by TPSA) with an estimated aggregate of 2 million subscribers. The number of
subscribers is estimated  to  have doubled  in  1998  alone.   Licenses to  operate local
telecommunications networks in competition with TPSA  were granted in 37 of the 48
"Voivodships" (regional administrative areas). As of the end of 1998, private local telephone
networks in Poland had a combined subscription of around 280,000 customers, compared with
8.4 million subscribers for TPSA. Figure 3 provides an overview of the sector structure at the
end of 1998.
Figure 3
Poland - Telecommunications Sector - 1998
Policy
I .    Ministry of Communications              - -......-...
Regulation
1- - - - - - - - - -   - .. -- -- - -- -  ........................ ............................. -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    ---egulabon- --
Network
Operation
=    Telekomunikacja      _Cellular            * International
Polska S.A.  (TPSA)                      Private   Long
PTNtwoks        Distance
(Joint Stock Company with   Cenel L           l_
15% shares sold through IPO in  Polkomtel            o
November 1998)        .l _ _-------Lo
4                   4      £                    Service
l       Customers for Telecommunication Services      Provision
22. Extensive amendments were made to the Telecommunications Act in 1995. Among the
changes were provision for interconnection disputes to be referred to MoC if no agreement is
reached among the parties after three months, for MoC to call for bids to award licenses for
specific regions instead of processing applications presented by interested parties, and for
operating entities to have the authority to set their own tariffs in the newly competitive market.
The regulatory functions of the sector were allocated to the Economic Policy and Technology &
Development departments of the MoC.



8
23. A new telecommunications policy document was approved in May 1996 by the Council of
Ministers and Parliament. The Bank provided comments at several points during the process.
Key elements of the revised policy included the establishment of an independent regulatory
agency, principles for licensing, the development of service in rural areas, and a new tariff
regime. Amendments to telecommunications legislation were drafted to give effect to the policy.
At the end of 1997, and in early 1998, the Government made available successive draft versions
of the new law to the general public for comments, including over the Internet. The Bank
provided extensive comments. However, due to political changes in April/May 1998, the
processing of the amendment was delayed, and it is now expected to be finalized by the end of
1999. The failure to restructure the existing regulatory functions of the MoC and OCCP into a
single independent telecommunications regulator has resulted in problems. There have been
numerous complaints to both OCCP and the courts from mobile and local operators against
TPSA concerning pricing, competition and inter-connection issues. As liberalization of the
sector progresses, heavily influenced by EU directives as part of Poland's preparation for
accession to the Union, the need for a dedicated telecommunications regulator has become more
acute.
Privatization of TPSA
24. In May 1997, TPSA submitted for government approval a "Concept Paper for the
Privatization of TPSA". TPSA took the initiative in planning for privatization and, working with
the government, prepared policy documents on legal issues, investment requirements, financial
and economic issues related to accession to the EU, preparation of new accounting practices and
MIS systems, ecological issues, regulation (including the impact of liberalization, the
interconnection regime, and universal service obligations), and internal organizational
restructuring. The Bank supported the decision and provided advice on parts of the process. In
May 1998, transaction advisers were appointed to design and implement the privatization
strategy. The first stage would involve an IPO on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. This would be
followed by the sale of an additional stake to a strategic partner and a listing of TPSA's shares on
the London Stock Exchange.
25. The IPO was successfully concluded in November 1998. Around 15 percent of the
company's shares were sold to domestic (one-third) and foreign investors (two-thirds). A total
of around US$ 900 million was raised, giving the company a total capitalized value of around
US$ 6.2 billion. The market value of the shares has risen sharply, and a 15 percent stake was
estimated to be worth around US$ 1.5 billion at the end of February 1999.6 Advisors have been
appointed to sell a further stake of 25 to 35 percent to a strategic partner through a transaction
expected to be concluded in 1999.
6  Source: Economist Intelligence Unit



9
Procurement and Disbursements
26. Procurement delays arose during the early years of the project. These were due to the
borrower's lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures, and to slow responses by the
Bank to procurement issues. They were reduced as familiarity with procedures increased and
due to excellent cooperation between the TPSA and the Bank in later years. However,
throughout project implementation, and in particular towards the end when the privatization
process of TPSA was under way, TPSA's management expressed reluctance to always follow the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The main reasons were: (a) procurement under the Bank's
Guidelines is too lengthy; (b) following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) was against
their new internal policies, which called for restrictive bidding among four or five bidders for
most large categories of equipment, well known to TPSA; and (c) the Bank's policy to award to
the lowest responsive bidder was not always in compliance with the new company policies. As
is common in the industry, TPSA developed supply relationships with a limited number of
equipment vendors, valuing highly the reliability, speed of supply, equipment compatibility and
lower risks which these arrangements bring. The impact of the procurement problem on the
project was two-fold: (a) the physical components were implemented somewhat later than
originally scheduled; and (b) it was one of the main contributing factors to the cancellation of
US$ 25 million from the loan.
27. No particular difficulties or delays were encountered with disbursements under the loan
agreement. Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements for each fiscal year are shown in
Part II, Table 4.
Follow-up Project
28.   At the time of project preparation, it was intended to follow up with a sector survey,
which would guide the preparation of a more broadly based second telecommunications project.
The survey resulted in the preparation of a new US$ 400 million project, which was appraised in
1994. It did not proceed to negotiations. Ostensibly, TPSA's board wanted to see the first loan
drawn down more (less than half of the US$ 120 million had been disbursed at the time).
However, there remained a sense on the Polish side that dialogue on critical institutional issues
had not advanced to the point of readiness for formal negotiations and that the Bank strategy in
the sector did not fully match the Polish position. In addition, TPSA's strengthened financial
position, and access to other sources of funding made financing from IBRD less attractive.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
29. The project implementation period saw substantial reductions in international market
prices for high technology digital switching and transmission equipment. This resulted in
significant cost savings on the originally designed physical components, and allowed additional



10
equipment to be financed under the project. In addition to lower costs, the new technology
provides better and more reliable services which in turn requires less maintenance, thus affecting
positively staff productivity and other operational and financial performance indicators.
30. In addition to, and largely - driven by, rapid technological change, the global
telecommunications industry saw enormous changes in regulation and market structure. The
government responded to these changes by moving early to restructure the sector, putting in
place new legal and regulatory frameworks, and facilitating private participation through new
entry and finally the privatization of TPSA.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
31. As noted in paragraph 30, the government responded to global changes in the
telecommunications industry by implementing a program of fundamental sector reforms. The
economic transfornation program finally provided the economic stability and conditions for
growth which facilitated the sector's and TPSA's improved performance. The govermnent's
decision to aim for accession to the European Union meant that sector dialogue now used the
Union's policy and legal framework as a reference point, and thus provided a further substantial
boost to reforms in the sector. The government had access to attractive grant financing facilities
for technical assistance. In the case of this project, it was agreed after loan signature that most of
the proposed technical assistance components would be financed by EU PHARE, and this
accounted for a portion of the reduction of the loan amount in 1996. Finally, although the
government was initially opposed to authorizing the tariffs increases agreed in the loan
agreement, it ultimately allowed TPSA to make important advances towards a balanced-tariffs
regime before its full privatization. The newly established competitive environment will drive
fiuther tariff rebalancing and reductions.
Factors Generally Subject to TPSA Control
32. TPSA encountered resistance in local communities in the southwest and southeast parts of
the country in securing the rights-of-way needed for the installation of the fiber optic cables
financed under the project. In the southwest region, near Czestochowa, TPSA, after a delay,
finally obtained the rights-of-way. However, it failed to do so in the southeast region, and the
funds were re-allocated to finance similar equipment in another area.
E.    Project Sustainability
33.  Project Benefits.  The project benefits include: (i) a dramatic increase in access to
telecommunications provided by TPSA and in quality of service; (ii) the introduction of new
communications services needed; (iii) customer choice; and (iv) improved staff productivity
without a net loss of jobs. Although not directly financed by the project, the privatization of
TPSA has played an important role in furthering private participation in infrastructure. The
sector, and TPSA, have helped prepare Poland for accession to the European Union by providing
the modern communications services needed to participate and compete in the global economy.



11
34. Sustainability. All of the project's objectives have been substantially achieved. TPSA's
operational and financial performance is projected to improve further in an increasingly
competitive and open telecommunications market. Market confidence in the sustainability of
these gains is reflected in the successful conclusion of the first round of the privatization of
TPSA. The proposal to secure a strategic partner in a subsequent round is designed to further
strengthen TPSA's ability to grow and compete.
F.    Bank Performance
35. Overall Bank perfonnance is assessed as satisfactory. Some areas for improvement have
been identified. In common with other Bank operations at that time, the original project design
could have placed greater emphasis on sector reform, including accelerating arrangements to
support new private entrants and competition rather than reinforcing the incumbent state
operator. From 1991 to 1995, there was a lack of continuity in task management which caused
some interruptions and delays, in particular in responding to procurement issues. The conditions
of the loan, while appropriate to traditional state enterprises, made IBRD financing less attractive
to TPSA in its changed operating environment. Some of these conditions led to implementation
problems which, although with some delays, were successfully resolved. A portion of the loan
was cancelled as attractive financing alternatives became available to the borrower, in large part
due to perceived rigidities of the Bank's procurement guidelines. The need to waive loan
covenants should have been addressed two years earlier than it actually was.
36. The value-added by the Bank changed over the life of the project. During project
preparation, leverage existed to make significant progress in restructuring the operator from a
ministry to a commercial entity and in securing agreement to important initial liberalization
steps. The relative value of the Bank's financial contribution declined thereafter, as TPSA's
operational and financial performance improved and new sources of funding became available.
The planned second investment operation, which at the time of appraisal had a significant
investment component for TPSA, did not proceed. The decision was that of the borrower, and
failure to proceed does not seem to have had any negative impact on the sector. The Bank
provided valuable contributions to the on-going reform process, in particular through repeated
contributions to the new policy and legal framework for the sector, providing information which
assisted with the preparation of TPSA's privatization, and as an advocate of liberalization.
G.  Borrower Performance
37. Notwithstanding implementation delays, the performance of both the Government (as
guarantor) and TPSA (as Borrower) is assessed as highly satisfactory. All of the project's
objectives were achieved. The performance of TPSA in expanding and improving the quality of
service over the period was remarkable, and is reflected in its recent successful privatization.
TPSA has remained dominant in a sector which has been increasingly liberalized, albeit in part
due to the failure of competitors to emerge quickly due to weak regulatory arrangements.



12
38. Compliance with Loan and Guarantee Covenants. The status of compliance with legal
covenants is set out in Part II, Table 10. Both TPSA and the government are in compliance with
the covenants under the loan and guarantee agreements respectively. In the case of TPSA, the
Bank formally waived the covenants on its operating ratio and tariff adjustments in December
1997 (see paragraphs 18 and 19).
H.  Assessment of Outcome
39.  The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. It achieved all of its objectives. Allowing
for the covenants which were correctly waived, TPSA met or exceeded all of its operational and
financial targets. The Government has presided over a successful reform program involving the
restructuring of the sector, a new legal and regulatory framework7, significant initial progress on
liberalization, and the conclusion of the first phase of privatization of TPSA.
40. Nevertheless, the project had a relatively narrow focus. Thus, although it achieved all of
its objectives and the performance of both the borrower and the Bank was satisfactory, with the
exception of the policy advice provided during preparation, its impact on the success of the
sector in Poland over the past ten years was marginal.
I.   Future Operation
41. Key indicators for the future operation of TPSA are provided in Part II, Table 5.
Operational and financial performance is projected to improve further. As an example, the total
number of connected subscribers is projected to increase from 8.4 million at the end of 1998 to
10.2 million at the end of 2000. The sustainability of the project's achievements, and the
credibility of its future targets, are enhanced by the successful conclusion of the IPO in 1998,a
and the proposed subsequent phases of the privatization.
J.   Lessons Learned
42. The experience of this project confirms that the Bank's primary value-added in
telecommunications today lies not in resource mobilization, but in the provision of quality advice
in support of sector reform programs. At the time of project preparation, when financial leverage
was high, the Bank was influential in negotiating a number of important reform steps. The
relative value of the Bank's financial contribution declined over the life of the project as TPSA's
financial position improved and it gained access to attractive new sources of finance.
43. As TPSA became operationally and commercially stronger, it developed supply
relationships with a limited number of equipment vendors. This is common practice in the
industry, where operators value highly the reliability, speed of supply, equipment compatibility
7   Although the creation of an independent telecommunications regulator is not expected to be concluded until later in 1999,
significant changes were made to regulatory institutions and arrangements during the life of the project. Notwithstanding
the regulatory difficulties which arose, these arrangements laid the basis for the sector's impressive growth during the
1990's.



13
and lower risks which these arrangements bring. Although TPSA's procurement policies were
competitive, tensions arose with the Bank's procurement guidelines, which require ICB for each
contract and are more time-consuming. This indicates that in certain circumstances, the Bank's
guidelines are not compatible with procurement practices of successful commercial enterprises,
and are considered unattractive by them-.
44. Traditional loan covenants can prove constraining as a borrower moves from a position of
weakness to one of financial strength, and from operating as a state enterprise to a commercial
business, especially in a fast-changing industry. For example, the application of the inflation
related tariff adjustment, although it would have strengthened TPSA's financial position as
intended, was correctly opposed by the competition authority on the grounds that consumers
should benefit from the cost savings in the industry. In circumstances such as these, there is a
need to be prepared to amend or waive covenants to more appropriately reflect the changed
circumstances, and to do so on a more timely basis.



14
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial        N ble         Not aDitcable
Macro Policies                   El            E               El
Sector Policies                                El              E               El
Financial Objectives            m:                             [ Cl
Institutional Development                       0l                               ]
Physical Objectives                            El              E                El
Poverty Reduction                El            El               0l
Gender Issues                    []            E               []
Other Social Objectives         [l             E               El
Environmental Objectives         E              E              El
Public Sector Management         []                            El
Private Sector Development                     El              R                El
Other (specify)                                                                El El  El
(Continued)



15
B. Project Sustainabilitv           Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                     (V)                        (/)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactory             Satisfactorv              Deficient
(/)                    (V)                        (V)
Identification                     E l:i
Preparation Assistance              O                                                EO
Appraisal                          E]                      If                        0
Supervision                        E                       I3                        0
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory             Satisfactorv              Deficient
(/)                     (1)                      (/)
Preparation
Implementation                     I3                      E                         E
Covenant Compliance                                                                  L0
Operation (if applicable)           E3                      0 
Hilvy                                             Higwly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(E)            (E)              (E)(



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
This was the first telecommunications project in Poland. There are no related Bank loans/credits.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      FY88                   FY88
Preparation                                     FY90                   FY90
Appraisal                                       FY90           October 10, 1990
Negotiations                                    FY91           February 12, 1991
Board Presentation                              FY91           April 23, 1991
Signing                                         FY91           May 23, 1991
Effectiveness                                   FY91           December 9, 1991
Project Completion                       December 31, 1995     June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                             June 30, 1996         June 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual8
(US$ millions)
FY91  FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate    1.2    22.8      36.0     37.0    20.0       3.0         0       0        0
Actual               0.0      12.1    23.8      20.1     11.8      8.5       8.3     4.7       1.7
Actual as % of         0     53%      66%      54%       59%     282%
estimate
Date of final                                                                     January 22, 1999
disbursement
8  An amount of US$ 25 million was cancelled from the initial loan amount of US$ 120 million in March 1996. At the date
of final disbursement, the undisbursed balance of US$ 1.97 million was cancelled.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1991                1992                 1993                1994                 1995                1996                1997
SAR    Actual    SAR          Actual     SAR      Actual    SAR       Actual      SAR      Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual
1. Network Development
a. Installedcapacity      3,737               4,165                 4,737     5,328    5,656      5,885                6,751               7,666               8,483
(1,000 lines)
b. Lines installed during  295                  412                   553                919        556                  866                 915                817
year (1,000 lines)
c. Working lines          3,478               3,778                 4,170     4,416    4,670      5,006                 5,728              6,532               7,465
d Working lines            200                  300                   400                500        590                  722                 804                933
installed during year
e. Fill Ratio%             87.5                 g6.1                 84.6      82.9                85.1                  84.9               85.2                88.0
f. Telephone Density        9.8  9.6           1 0.0       10.2                11.5                13.0                  14.8               16.9                19.3
2. Quality of Service
a. Faults per 100            7                   7.0                  7.0                           6.0                   6.0                5.0                 4.0
working lines/month
3. Efficiency
a. Staff                 67,821              71,782                77,145                        72,780                74,389             73,512              73,207
b. Staff/lOOOworking       19.5                 19.0                 18.5                          15.3                  13.7               12.0                10.4
lines
c. Revenue/Working                                                                                  750                  884                1007                1160
line (KCS)
4. Selected Financial Indicators
a. Operating Ratio (%)9                                                                 75.0       82.2       75.0       77.4     75.0      78.2      75.0      80.1
b. Rate of Retum (%)                                                                    26.5       15.9       24.4       22.5     22.9      20.5                18.0
c. Internal Cash Generation (%)                                                         78.7       79.0       83.7       94.0     87.3        39                81.0
d. Debt/Equity Ratio (%)                                                                29.7       25.1       33.9       30.7     35.1      32.5                56.7
9   This ratio is calculated as the percentage of total operating costs (including all taxes) to total operating revenues.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1998                      1999                       2000
SAR      Target       SAR          Target           SAR         Target
10
1. Network Development
a. Installed capacity (1,000                     9293                        10294                      11294
lines)
b. Lines installed during year                    811                         1000                       1000
(1,000 lines
c. Working lines                                 8365                         9265                      10165
d Worldng lines installed during                  900                          900                        900
year
e. Fill Ratio %                                  90.0                         90.0                       90.0
f. Telephone Density                             2i.6                         23.9                       26.2
2. Quality of Service
a. Faults per 1 00 working
lines/month
3. Efficiency
a. Staff                                       72,728                       73,000                     73,000
73,000
b. Staff/1000 working lines                        9.1                         8.3                        7.5
c. Revenue/Working line (KCS)                    1200
0   No target indicators were included in the SAR for these years. The above targets were provided by TPSA management.



19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project"
Purpose as defmed at
Study                                         appraisal/redefined   Status12  Impact of study
1. TA1 -TO - Evaluation of Digital Overlay  TA to support the       C          Improved technical
Network tenders; 9/91 to 3/92; contractor -  execution of physical             competence
ETCO (France); cost ECU 294,240            investment
2. TAl-TI - Senior advisor to SPD; 7/92 to  TA to improve PPTT      C          Improved management
2/95; contractor - ETCO (France) - advisor  management
Klaus Scholle; cost ECU 650,000
3. TA1-T7 - Preliminary Optimization Study;    TA for project       C          Improved project
5/93 to 8/93; contractor - BT Teleconsult (Great  implementation               implementation
Britain); cost ECU 104,879
4. TA1-T8 - SDH Planning Assistance; 7/93 to   TA for project        C         Improved project
8/93; contractor - Carl Bro (Denmark) ; cost  implementation                   implementation
ECU 36,150
5. TAl-T9 - Assistance in Traffic Measurement;  TA for improved technical  C   Improved technical
6/93 to 8/93; contractor - Detecon (Germany);   capacity                       capacity
cost ECU 37,225
6. TAl-T1O - Final Study on Digital Network  TA to support the      C          Improved physical
and New Network Optimization; 9/94 to 3/96;    execution of physical           implementation
contractor - France Telecom (France); cost ECU   investment
713,790
7. TAl-T14 - Quality of Service supervision,  TA to improve PPTT     C         Improved technical
Technical MIS; 9/94 - contract terminated;  management                         capacity
contractor - Detecon; cost ECU 149,903
8. TAl-TI15 - Assistance in Evaluation of  TA to improve            T
tenders; 1/94 to 2/95; contractor - Intercal  institutional capacity
Belgium N.V. (Belgium); cost ECU 99,900
9. TA1 - T16 - Preliminary Feasibility Study for  Not included in SAR  C       Improved technical
multimedia services; 1/95 to 2/95; contractor -                                capacity
Nethconsult (Holland); cost ECU 295,689.90
10. TAl-E7 - Senior Adviser to Financial   TA to improve PPTT       C          Improved financial
Department; 11/93 to 11/94; contractor - Carl    management                    management skills
Bro (Denmark); cost ECU 210,000
11. TAI-HR5 - Specifications for supply of  TA to improve           C          Improved technical
training equipment; 5/93 to 10/95; contractor -    institutional capacity      capacity
Deutsche Telekom (Germany); cost ECU
34,840
12. TA1-HR6 - Training of SPD staff on project  TA on project       C          Improved project
preparation and management - 1st course; 8/93;   implementation                implementation
contractor - PTREC Education and Research                                      capacity
Services (Great Britain); cost ECU 8,874
13. TAI-HR7 - Training; 9/94 to 10/95;     TA to improve            C          Improved TPSA
contractor - Deutsche Telekom (Germany); cost  institutional capacity          capacity
ECU 227,425
14. TAl-HR8 - Training for SPD staff on    TA on project            C          Improved project
project preparation and management - 2nd   implementation                      implementation
By Agreement signed in September 1991 between the Ministry of Communications, IBRD, PHARE and TPSA, the
Technical Assistance part of this loan was re-allocated and the TA activities described in the table were financed from EU
PHARE.
12  C = Completed, I = Incomplete; T = Terminated



20
course; 6-7/94: contractor - PTREC Education                                   capacity
and Research Services (Great Britain); cost
ECU 18,029
15. TA1-R5 - Senior Adviser to MoC; 1/95 to    Not included in SAR  C          Improved legal and
2/96; contractor - Interconnect Communication                                  regulatory capacity
Ltd - advisor: John Watkinson; cost ECU
175,100
16. TAI-R6 - Development of Regulatory     Not included in SAR      C          Improved legal and
Expertise; 1/95 to 2/96; contractor - Doornhein                               regulatory capacity
De Vrics Intemational (Holland) with a
subcontractor - Booz, Allen and Hamilton; cost
ECU 233,390



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                 Actual/latest estimates
.(US$ million)                        (US$ million)
Item                              Local    Foreign       Total          Local   Foreign       Total
costs      costs                      costs     costs
1. International network              4.2         5.0         9.2
2. Long-distance network             52.9       128.8       181.7         165.9   184.01'        349.9
3. Local network                     12.0        20.0        32.0
4. Other                             12.0        18.1        12.2
5. Technical Assistance               4.1         8.1                       4.1        3.8         7.9
Contingencies                        83.5        30.0       143.6            0.0       0.0         0.0
Total                               168.7       210.0       378.7         170.0      187.8       357.8
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Item                            Local   Foreign    Total           Local    Foreign    Total
costs    costs                    costs      costs
IBRD                                 0.0   120.0        120.0           0.0       93.0      93.0
EEB                                  0.0    90.0          90.0          0.0       90.0      90.0
Internal Cash Generation           168.7      0.0       168.7         170.0        0.0    170.0
EU PHARE                             0.0      0.0          0.0          0.0        4.8       4.8
Total                              168.7   210.0        378.7         170.0      187.8    357.8
13  This includes IBRD financed equipment as follows: LD network switching and transmission, $29.0 m.; Local network
switching and optical fiber links, $48.0 m.; Measuring equipment, $11.0 m.; and Earth satellite station, $5.0 m.



22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Years        PLN Million    PLN Million      PLN Million      PLN Million
Total          Total            Total          Net Benefit
Capital Cost    Operating Cost   Operating Revenue  Deflated
1992           311             163              218             (255)
1993           1,404           685             1,078            (963)
1994           1,714          1,033            1,718            (933)
1995           1,364          1,749            2,936            (66)
1996           2,730          2,669            4,367            (849)
1997           3,477          4,223            6,496            (943)
1998           3,064          5,309            7,955            (312)
1999                          5,309            7,955            1,881
2000                          5,309            7,955            1,791
2001                          5,309            7,955            1,706
2002                          5,309            7,955             1,625
2003                          5,309            7,955            1,547
2004                          5,309            7,955            1,473
2005                          5,309            7,955            1,403
2006                          5,309            7,955            1,337
2007                          5,309            7,955            1,273
2008                          5,309            7,955            1,212
2009                          5,309            7,955            1,155
2010                          5,309            7,955            1,100
The actual IRR with an assumed 15 year project life is 18 %. If one assumes a project life of 20
years, the actual IRR is 19%. The projected ERR in the SAR was 27%. Although less than that
projected in the SAR, the overall IRR is considered satisfactory.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised            Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement        Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan 3319 POL  4.01 (a) (iii)    12      C       12/31/91    None        To establish in the Polish Post Telephone &
Telegraph (PPTT) an independent
telecommunications unit
4.01 (a) (iv)    12      C       6/30/92     None        To establish a separate postal unit and
transform the telecommunications unit into
a joint-stock company
4.01 (b) (iii)    9      C       5/31, 6/30    None      Submit updated Action Plan by 6/30;
and (iv)                         and 11/30               submit updated Progress Reports by5/31
annually               and 11/30 annually
5.01 (b) (ii)  I & 9     C       6/30        None        Submit Financial Statements and Audit
annually               Reports
5.02 (a)       2         C'4    6/30                     Maintain Operating ratio not higher than  Waived in 1997
annually               80% for 1992, and not higher than 75% for
each year after
5.03           2         C15                             Automatic tariff adjustments           Waived in 1997
Guarantee 3319  4.01 (a) and (b)  I      C       Six months  None        Maintain and submit records and accounts
POL                                              after end of            of operations, resources and expenditures
fiscal year
Covenant types:                                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                 10. Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                   NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                       regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
14   Complied with while applicable, then waived.
15   Complied with while applicable, then waived.



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements
(OD or OP/BP) was observed under the project.
Statement number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'6
Planned                  Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$         Weeks         US$            Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal       N/A     N/A         N/A             N/A          51.5         141.5
Appraisal                      N/A     N/A         N/A             N/A          18.8         53.3
Negotiations through Board     N/A     N/A         N/A             N/A           18.6         54.8
approval
Supervision                    N/A     N/A         N/A             N/A         100.3        358.4
Cornpletion                    12.0    43.0        12.5            44.7          10.9        39.0
Total                                                                    197.5        643.3
16  All values correspond to the Bank Budget (BB) Cost Accounting System (COS).



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.L  Types of
Year   Persons  Field                      Status       objectives  Problems'
Through Appraisal        FY90
Appraisal through Board   FY91
approval
Initial Summnary         5/30/91         1       0 TM                       NR            NR
Portfolio Status Update    6/30/91       1       0 TM                          1            1
Supervision
Supervision 1            6/30/92         3       7 TM, Eng, FinA              1             1      SecSur
Portfolio Status Update 2   2/10/93      1       0 TM                          1            1
Portfolio Status Update 3   6/30/93      2      12 TM, FinA                   1             1
Supervision 2            12/13/93        4      17 TM, FinA, TeleS,           1             1
PSD.
Supervision 3            6/30/94         3      16 TM, FinA, TeleS           HS           HS
Portfolio Status Update 4   5/31/95      1       0 TM                        HS           HS
Supervision 4            2/29/96         3       7 TM, FinA, Info             S             S        Proc
Portfolio Status Update 5   6/28/96      1       0 TM                         S             S
Supervision 5            7/8/97          3       9 TM, FinA, SecS             S             S       CovC
Supervision 6            12/30/97        2       8 TM, FinA                   S             S      CovW
Supervision 7            Sl798           4      12 TM, FinA,                  S             S
Pol/Reg, RegEco
Completion
ICRMission               12/01/98        2      11 TM, FinA                   S             S
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
TM = Task Manager, Eng. = Engineer,    NR = Not rated               SecSur = Survey of sector as basis for possible
FinA = Financial Analyst, Econ =   Before 1994: 1 = Problem free, 2 -    follow-on project
Economist, Leg = Lawyer, TeleS =   moderate, 3 = major problems     Proc = Procurement issues
Telecommunications Specialist, PSD  From 1994: HS = Highly satisfactory, S CovC = Covenant compliance
PSD Specialist, Info = Informatics  = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HU  CovW = Covenant waiver
Specialist, SecS = Sector Specialist,  = Highly unsatisfactory
Pol/Reg = Telecommunications Adviser,
RegEco = Regulatory Economist



APPENDIX A
Telecommunications Project (Loan 3319-PL)
Implementation Completion Mission
Aide-Memoire



Appendix A
Page 1 of 4
Aide Memoire
Poland - Telecommunications Project - Loan 3319- PL
Implementation Completion Mission, October 19 - 29,1998
Introduction
1.    The above mission comprising Svet Tintchev and Alberto Cruzat visited Warsaw and
met with the management of TPSA, as well as with representatives of the Ministry of Finance
(MoF), Ministry of Post and Communications (MoPC), Ministry of Treasury (MoT) and Office
of Competition and Consumer Protection (OCCP). List of the officials met is attached to this
AM. The key findings and agreements reached between the parties and the mission are recorded
below. These findings and agreements are subject to ratification by the Bank management on
return of the mission staff to headquarters. The mission extends its thanks to management and
staff of TPSA, MoPC and all other governmental agencies for their kind support and generous
hospitality.
2.    The ICR preparation was the main issue included in the agenda of this final supervision.
The other objectives of the mission were to identify the final status of the payments of the
remaining components of the digital Fiber Optics Cables and SDH multiplex equipment, which
were completed within the frame of the project closing date June 30, 1998, and to verify the
status of compliance of legal and financial covenants of the Loan Agreement.
3.    Following the request of MoPC to the Bank, for technical assistance in order to support
further telecom sector development and in particular implementation of regulatory/legislative
sector framework, the mission discussed with MoPC, MoT, MoF and OCCPC possible
approaches to provide such additional Bank's assistance.
A - MISSION SUMMARY and FINDINGS - TPSA
4.    Loan Status and Special Account Replenishment: The Mission reviewed with TPSA the
Procurement/Disbursement information, including all 171 transactions made up to this day.
Attachment 1 shows the final set of Disbursement Applications submitted by TPSA for the
remaining payments to MITSUI and SIRTI. The total amount disbursed up to Transaction 171 is
equivalent to US$ 90, 862, 949.02 leaving an available balance of the Loan equivalent to US$ 4,
137, 051. This amount includes the remaining funds in the Special Account of approximately
DM 85, 716.
5.    Waiver. Answering a request received from Hunton & Williams, Legal firm engaged by
TPSA in the privatization process, the Mission met with lawyers from this firm who requested to
extend until 31 December 1999 the Waiver issued on 23 December 1997 about the obligations



Appendix A
Page 2 of 4
set forth in Section 5.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement signed dated 29 May 1991, related to the
need for TPSA to reach an Operating Ratio no higher than 75% for FY 93 and onwards. On 22
October 1998, the Bank issued a new Waiver for this covenant valid until 31 December 1999.
6.    During the Wrap-up meeting the representatives from TPSA clarified that the Operating
Ratio covenant created major problems to TPSA in its relations with Financial Analyst who are
engaged in various steps of the privatization process, and expressed TPSA's intention to submit
to the Bank further request for extension of this Waiver beyond 31 December 1999. It was
agreed that upon finalization by TPSA of the schedule and detailed plans to be followed for the
placing of the shares with a Strategic Investor, which is foreseen to occur in 1999, TPSA will
submit the above-mentioned request to the Bank for further extension of the Waiver about the
Operating Ratio.
7.    Progress of Physical Implementation: The construction of the last SDH transmission
rings, G and F, as well as Route 7, Przemysl - Krosno, has been finalized. The whole length of
1,408 km., including the last finalized track (Czestochova - Zawiercie) were ready and
acceptance tests performed by end June, 1998.
8.    The mission noted that the responsible investment teams have arranged agreements with
the contractor - MITSUI which has provided additional guarantee for the goods and services to
be performed beyond the closing date, so that IBRD can disburse the full amount according the
signed contracts.
9.    Tariffs and Competition.   The mission discussed with OCCP and TPSA recent
developments and concluded that TPSA has made good progress in moving the tariffs by service
closer to cost-based values.  Attachment 2, pages 3 - 4 - 5 shows the tariffs assumptions
used in the projections prepared by TPSA; it is noted that Connections Fees, Monthly Rental and
the Rate per Pulse will have modest increases, while the Pulses per minute will decrease for
Domestic Long Distance calls; and the Rate per minute in International calls will stay constant in
zloty.
10.  ICR Preparation Time Schedule: The mission discussed with TPSA the input data
provided regarding the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Due to the historical
continuity in the Project of key TPSA staff it was possible for the Mission to obtain a clear
picture of the Project from Appraisal to Closing date; the Mission expressed its thanks to TPSA
for the support provided in the preparation of the ICR. Due to the advanced stage of preparation
of the Information Memorandum (Prospectus) for the IPO issued October 1998, well structured
data was provided by the responsible managers during this final supervision mission. A copy of
the Prospectus in English was submitted to the mission.
11.   TPSA Bond Issue The Management of TPSA envisages also to issue bonds for financing
their short term investment progran amounting to about   US$ 800 - 1, 000 mln. The Bank
was requested to provide more detailed information for possible ways to assist TPSA in
mobilization of capital needed for this short term expansion program. TPSA requested from the



Appendix A
Page 3 of 4
Bank additional information regarding eventual utilization of specific instruments like World
Bank guarantees in similar cases .
B - MISSION SUMMARY and FINDINGS -SECTOR REFORM
12.   Sector Development In May 1996, after review by the Council of Ministers, several
Commissions, and the Parliament, a Telecom Policy Paper was approved. Based upon this
Policy, the MoPC is preparing a Draft Telecom Law. Both the Policy and the Law, include the
creation of a Telecommunications Regulation Agency (TRA).
13.   New Telecom Law. A recent draft of the Telecom Law was submitted to the general
public for comments (using INTERNET) end September 1998. A copy of a previous (March,
1998) draft in Polish was previously submitted to the WB Res. Mission and about 40 other Polish
and international institutions with request for comments. The Bank has already submitted
comments in April, 1998, based on the English translation. During the last September visit of
MoPC delegation to Washington, the Bank was informed that new version of the draft Telecom
Law is posted on the MoPC www site, reflecting all comments provided up to this moment. This
version will undergo further elaboration, based on detailed comments provided by different
Polish agencies, as well as, advise by foreign experts will be considered. It is envisaged that by
the end of 1998 some finalized version may be presented to the Parliament for discussions
during the 1999 parliamentary debates
14.   Regulatory Agency.  The MoPC is requesting World Bank's  assistance  in the
preparation of the by-laws needed for the creation of an independent Regulatory Agency and
institutional building/training for the future staff. The above tasks are of urgent priority,
nevertheless they are slightly delayed due to shifting the focus of the Ministerial activities
towards the preparation of EU accession papers related to the Polish Telecom Sector. The
Mission discussed with the MoPC possible additional assistance in regulatory capacity building
and implementation of the overall sector regulatory/legislative framework. Such assistance may
be provided under the existing Privatization Re-Structuring Project (PRP) managed by the
Ministry of Treasury. MoPC will specify the scope of activities to be performed and submit
through MoT by mid November 1998 to the Bank detailed TOR and time-schedule for financing
requested under PRP of such additional assistance.
15.    TPSA  Privatization. Beginning of March this year, the Ministry of Treasury has
recruited Schroders as privatization advisers. These consultants together with the auditors of
"Arthur Anderson" are working with TPSA staff preparing the company for the initial flotation
of shares on the domestic and international markets. The information prospects for the company
are ready and the Initial Public Offering (IPO) on the domestic market was launched October 19,
1998, with closing date November 17, 1998. A month later international public offering will be
launched on the London and New York stock markets. The consultants together with TPSA
management are currently on a Road Show to promote the forthcoming international flotation.
The advisers together with TPSA and MoT have decided that up to 15% of the shares will be for
telecom employees, 15% - 25% in shares and GDR are to be sold during the current IPO and



Appendix A
Page 4 of 4
subsequent international offering. Another 25% - 35% will be sold to a potential strategic
investor during 1999 after recruitment of finical and legal advisers for the preparation of this
international tender. Additional 5% will be allocated for the national Reprivatisation Fund.
16.  Bank's Future Support in Sector Reform. The mission discussed with representatives of
MoPC, MoF, MoT and OCCP, further needs of assistance in the process of sector reforms and
support in the preparation the planned TPSA privatization. The present progress in sector
restructuring and positive liberalization trends were acknowledged by the mission and support
for next steps was confirmed. The respective officials in MoT and MoPC will advise the
World Bank through the Resident Mission in Warsaw what will be the next steps of
involvement of Bank's assistance. The Polish counterparts will specify in particular the time
table and detailed TOR for the telecom sector restructuring tasks, discussed during the mission.,
to be financed eventually under the PRP handled by MoT.
C - NEXT STEPS and AGREED ACTIONS
Action                 Responsible Party       Due Date
To submit Invoices and Withdrawal    TPSA                October 30, 1998
Applications for SIRTI Contract
To process Applications submitted  World Bank            November 7, 1998
Washington HQ by c.o.b. October 30.  Disbursement Dept
To submit additional comments on the  World Bank         November 24, 1998
draft Telecom Law
To submit TOR and schedule for    MoT and MoPC           November 20, 1998
additional T/A on Regulatory Capacity
building, rural access etc.
Warsaw, October 29, 1998
The World Bank
C\SVET\POLAND\81 IMIS\81 IPLAM.DOC
October29, 1998 11:54AM



APPENDIX B
Telekomunikacja Polska S.A.
POLAND
Telecommunications I Project
(Loan 3319-POL)
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Warsaw, December 1998



Appendix B
I of 8
I. TP S.A. ASSESSMENTS
A.   Project Objectives
The Loan number POL 3319 granted by the World Bank and Credit No 1.5286 of the European
Investment Bank were planned to be used for development of the Polish telecommunications
sector, mainly for building - up Digital Long Distance Overlay Network in the country
specifically: Trunk Exchanges with Local Connections, Optical Fibre Cables Routes, Microwave
Radio Systems, Eutelsat Earth Satellite Station, Measuring and Tests Equipment as well as
Technical Assistance
B. Design
As a result of getting reasonable price at the time of the First International Bidding Competition
the purchases of the required equipment were split into two phases: A, which covers nearly in
total the original scope of goods specified by loans, and phase B, the additional funds for
extended range of equipment Phase A, as well as Phase B has been consisted in four LOTS.
C. Implementation
PHASE A - Bidding Competition and implementation in 1991-1994
LOT A -12 switching exchanges with air conditioning, transmission equipment, optical fibre
cables
and RDLUs. AI 1 of them were installed by the end of 1994.
LOT B -16 Microwave links with optical 61ire cables, multiplexer systems and microwaves and
supervisory systems. They were put into operation in '94;
LOT C - 1571 km of fibre optical cable with PDH equipment. The main contract was completed
by
the end of 1994 and an extension in 1995.
LOT D - Earth satellite station EUTELSAT. Installed and put into operation in 1993.
Others -Miscellaneous - Measuring and testing equipment. 26 Contracts were executed.
PHASE B
Bidding Competition made in 1994. Contracts signed in 1995.
hnplementation 1995 - finished by June 30, 1998
LOT 1- 1408 km of Fibre Optical Cables with accessories (for south districts)
LOT 2 - 1466 km of Fibre Optical Cables with ancillary equipment (north districts)
LOT 3 - SDH Transmission Equipment
LOT 4 - Eight Digital Trunk Exchanges



Appendix B
2 of 8
PHASE C
Digital local/transit Exchanges for Slupsk and Koszalin.Project IBRD TI 01 /BC. Bidding
Competition was made in first half of 1995. Contract signed in July 1995. Project covers
delivery, installation and commissioning of two local-transit digital exchanges, three local
exchanges, associated remote switching units together with appropriate SDH transmission
equipment as follows:
Local/Transit Exchange in Koszalin - 4320 trunks and 2048 subscribers.
Local/Transit Exchange in Slupsk - 3330 trunks and 14036 subscribers.
Local Exchange in Kolobrzeg Zach6d - 540 trunks and 7740 subscribers.
Local Exchange in Kolobrzeg Sr6dm. - 870 trunks and 7024 subscribers.
Local Exchange in Stawno - 390 trunks and 2.500 subscribers.
Amendment No.5 to Contract No. PL/12100784/92-0001.
This project is an extension of the contract with ZIYWT a Siemens Co., signed on 30th of
December
1995 and covers:
* ISDN equipment for trunk exchanges in Bialystok, Bydgoszcz, Kielce, Krakow,Lublin, Udi,
Olsztyn, Radom, Walbrzych, Warszawa and Wroclaw with 648 ISDN subscribers in total.
* Switching and transmission equipment for trunk exchanges in Lublin, Udi, Olsztyn and
Radom with 3480 trunk and 19016 subscribers in total.
The following tables illustrate engagement of funds from WB and EBI for phases A, B and C of
the First Telecommunications Project.
Enagagement of World Bank's & European Investments Bank's funds
Phase A
Project       World Bank          Supplier          European       Remarks
Investment Bank
Lot A and                             Siemens        DEM 79.750.000   Completed
Amendment 5
Lot B          JPY 2.474.182.580   Mitsui & Co. Ltd.                  Completed
Lot C            USD 30.888.639       AT & T                          Completed
Lot D             USD 4.955.887     STS (Satellite                    Completed
Transmission
Systems)



Appendix B
3 of 8
Phase B
Project    World Bank            Supplier               EBI          Remarks
Lot 1      ECU 5.837.430+       SIRTI S.p.A                          Completed
USD 5.211.914
Lot 2                        Alcatel Contracting    USD 12.917.288   Completed
Lot 3      USD 12.828.071     Mitsui & Co/NEC                        Completed
Lot 4                          AT&T (Lucent         ECU 11.266.776   Completed
Technologies)
Phase B
LOT 1
1408 km of Optical Fibre Cables to be laid in the south regions of Poland. All together there are
eight routes as said below:
1. Warszawa - Terespol 234 km
2. Lublin - Jaroslaw 329 km
3 Katowice - Opole I I I km
4 Mszana Dolna - Chy2ne 53 km
5. Krakow - Mszana Dolna -Nowy Sqcz 125 km
6. Lodz - Katowice 236 km
7. Krakow - Rzeszow 173 km
8 Przemysl - Krosno 147 km
The Contract for the above mentioned scope it means for delivery, installation and putting into
operation was concluded with Sirti S.p.A (Italy) on June 28, 1995 for the total value of ECU
5.837 43 0 and USD 5.211.914 with the time of implementation since Oct. 1, 1995 till Dec. 31,
1996. The Contract is financed by the World Bank. Due to the severe winter time in Poland and
protests of some land owners we have had to accept and agree with delay. All works were
completed by June 1998.
LOT 2
Another 1466 km of Optical Fibre Cables to be laid in the north regions of Poland. there are
seven
main routes mentioned below:
1. Koszalin - Gorzow 337 kin,
2. Bydgoszcz - Gorzow (West Polish Frontier) 291 km,
3. Gdansk - Olsztyn 218 km,
4. Poznan - Wroclaw 199 km
5. Konin - Kalisz, and Zmigrod Milicz all together 100 km
6. Olsztyn - Suwalki 215 km,
7. Ostroleka - Bialystok - 106 km



Appendix B
4 of 8
The Contract regarding that scope it means for delivery, installation and putting into operation
was concluded with Alcatel Contracting (France) also on June 28, 1995 amounting to a total
value USD 12.917.288 USD,- with a time schedule between September '95 and end of March '97.
The Contract is financed by the European Investment Bank. Delay was the same as above.
LOT 3 SDH Transmission Equipment
The Contract was signed with Mitsui & Co Ltd/NEC on July 31,1995 amounting to USD 12.730
000 USD with the period of implementation commencing April 1995 till June 98 A Design
Review after site surveys was agreed in Japan in October 1995 specifying the final scope and
technical matters to the satisfaction of TP S.A. The Contract is financed by the World Bank.
Contract no. PLO12100784/95-0004 (Mitsui)
No                                    Route
1   Poznan-Kalisz-Konin (STM-4)
2   Ostroleka-Lomza-Bialystok (STM-4)
3   Warszawa-Radom-Krakow (STM- 16)
4   Krakow-Nowy Sacz (STM-16)
5   Krakow-G8 (STM-4)
6   Lublin-Rzeszow (STM-16)
7   Rzeszow-Krakow (STM-16)
8   Warszwa-Lublin (STM-16)
9   Warszawa-G6 (STM-4)
10 Gdansk-Olsztyn (STM-16)
11  Warszawa-Olsztyn (STM-16)
12 Olsztyn-Suwalki (STM-4)
13 Bydgoszcz-Warszawa (STM-16)
14 Warszwa-Lodz (STM-16)
15 Lodz-Wroclaw (STM-16)
16 Poznan-Wroclaw (STM-16)
17 Poznan-Bydgoszcz (STM-16)
18  Bydgoszcz-Gdansk (STM-16)
19 Krakow-Katowice (STM-16)
20 Katowice-Opole-Wroclaw (STM-16)
21 Lodz-Katowice (STM-16)
22 Rzeszow-Przemysl-Krosno (STM-4)
23 Kolobrzeg-Gdansk (STM-16)
24 Bydgoszcz-Szczecin (STM-16)
25  Szczecin-Kolobrzeg (STM-16)
26 Gorzow-Bydgoszcz (STM-4)
27 G2-Gorzow (STM-16)



Appendix B
5 of 8
LOT 4 Eight Digital Trunk Exchanges
The contract was signed with AT&T Telfia S.A. on July 18 1994 amounting to ECU 11.266.776
with the period of implementation commencing August 1994 till September 1995,The contract
covers supply, installation. testing and commissioning of eight digital local/transit exchanges
together with Digital Line Units (DLU) and necessary SDH transmission equipment for the
following locations: Biala Podlaska, Elblag, Jelenia Gora, Leszno, Opole, Sieradz. Zamosc, and
Zielona Gora. The contract has been completed in due time and is financed from the European
Investment Bank.
The Project EBRD - T1-01/BC Switching local/ transit exchanges for Slupsk and Koszalin.
The Project consists of two Local/Transit exchanges, three Local exchanges and 18 RSU all
together for 21.848 subscribers and 7650 inter-urban trunks. According to the Regulation of the
Polish Minister of Post and Telecommunications issued in 1993. only three suppliers were
invited to LIB. The contract was awarded to Alcatel Polska, the lowest evaluated bidder. The
Contract was signed on July 18, 1995. The value of that is ECU 5.613.566.
Time of implementation: August 95 - end of September 1996. The project was completed for
Koszalin 4 and for Slupsk 3 months after contractual date, because before serious software
deficiencies had to be corrected by the Supplier. Contract is financed by the European Investment
Bank.
Amendment No. 5 to Contract No. PL./012100784/92-0001.
The project covers ISDN equipment for trunk exchanges in Bialystok, Bydgoszcz, Kielce,
Krakow, Lublin, Lodz, Olsztyn, Radiom, Walbrzych, Warszawa and Wroclaw with 648 ISDN
subscribers in total and switching and transmission equipment for trunk exchanges in Lublin,
Lodz, Olsztyn and Radom with 3480 trunks and 19016 subscribers in total. The project is an
extension of an existing contract no.PL/12100784/92-0001 with ZWUT SA a Siemens Co. and
has been already completed. The value of the Amendment No 5 Siemens (ZWUT S.A.) amounts
to 6.343.119 DEM.
D.    Operation Experience
The delays in execution of LOT I and 2 under Phase B are due mainly to the two consecutive
severe winters in Poland and some legal problem with private land owners In 1997 a new
Construction and Building Act was issued and created a new procedure how to receive
permission to build and install fibre optical routes The delay of Lot 3 was caused mainly by delay
in completion of LOT I and 2.
As the final result of financing made out by WB AND EBI we have built and installed
*  22 terminal and transit tunk exchanges
* 4.400 km fibre optical cables, (more than 40% of the FOC for interurban network).
* 16 microwave links



Appendix B
6 of 8
* Eutelsat Earth Satellite Station.
At present, in Poland, all international, transit and terminal trunk exchanges are digital.
II.   EVALUATION OF TP S.A. OWN PERFORMANCE
Intensive infrastructure development implemented by TP S.A. in the last years contributed to the
increase of the number of subscriber lines. In the period 1991-1997 subscribes lines nearly
doubled and are planned to achieve 11,3 MM by the end 2000. Average growth amounts to
14%.annually. Such high progress could be made by adapting existing network and building new
ones of state - of - art. technologies.
Goals and results are shown on the table below:
PROJECT            OBJECTIVE              RESULTS             REMARKS
Optical Fibre System    1000 km for 30,4  3224 km for 44,07    SDH transmission
millions USD        rnillions USD         installed on 5200 km.
Low prices obtained in
____ ___I___________                                      IBC procedures.
MW Radio System     18 systems for 24    16 systems for 29,03
millions USD        millions USD
Measuring & Test    1,3 millions USD     11,05 millions USD
Equipment
Technical Assistance &  9,43 millions USD                      Included in all above
Training                                                       projects
Local Network       24 millions USD      =                     Entirely TP S.A. funds
Till 31st December 1998 funds totally used under Loan 3319/POL amounts to
USD 93.076.336,06
As far as the final settlements with SIRTI Company and Alcatel Contracting are under
preparation and shall be financed from own means of TP S.A. the actual costs of the whole
Project cannot be precisely defined. But at this stage and to our best knowledge we estimate that
it costs all together USD 350,08 million.
A.   Lessons Learned That May Be Relevant in the Future
The Project was significantly overestimated. So, there was the reasons that we had had to arrange
three separate phases of the bidding procurement which requires a lot of months of work and
many staff to be employed.
Feasibility Study well prepared by the Borrower and checked by the Bank should be the basis for
estimation of the Project and the value of the Loan.



Appendix B
7 of 8
III. EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE AND COFINANCIERS
A.   Effectiveness of the Relationship Among TP S.A., The World Bank and the
European Investment Bank as a Corinancier
During 8 years of our co-operation the missions of the World Bank which paid regularly half year
visits to TP.S.A. were very helpful and conductors in solving some difficult problems. In the very
beginning of an execution of the Project the missions were combined of representatives of the
World Bank and European Investment Bank and they breached in 1994 year. The EIB resign
from official supervision mission but we maintain very frequent contacts by phone,
correspondence and visits.
TP S.A. and their authorities express a lot of thanks to Mr Svet Tintchev Task Manager - Senior
Telecom Engineer and Mr Alberto Cruzat - Senior Telecommunication Finance Specialist for
their excellent assistance in whole matter, and particularly, in extension of closing date of the
Loan till 30 June 1998 which allowed to finish the delayed works regarding SIRTI and Mitsui
Contracts and then as a result to effect payments beyond planned dates.
Also we are very grateful to the team of the World Bank in Washington and Residential
Office in Warsaw, personally to Mr Basil Kavalsky and George Park for their assistance in
receiving waivers regarding operating ratio at the level no higher than 75% and tariffs increase
following the inflation rate according to Section 5.02 (a) and 5.3 relevantly.
As far as procurement following the World Bank's Guideline is concerned it turn out to be
impossible to use the whole amount of the Loan it means 120 million USD because of a long
lasting procedure and specific requirements concerning International Bidding Competition for the
potential Bidders.
It's typical example from the past. In 1994 it was great demand to build and install fibre optical
cable routes with SDH transmission equipment. According to the World Bank's advise we
organized ICB. Sixty three potential bidders received our documents Only thirty-four tenders
were submitted and in many cases one company started with their bids for three lots ( It happened
at the stage of Phase B). It was well known that most of them are interested in getting technical
and technological specification in order to get to know the newest solution how to build and
construct modem digital network in Poland. But we couldn't refuse them to participate in that
process. As a cheapest evaluated SIRTII and Alcatel Contracting were awarded. They hadn't any
experience on the Polish market, so in the beginning it postponed their adaptation and it was one
of the reasons of delay in implementation of the Project. The Polish factories and enterprises, as
bidders, were too expensive although they were quite well experienced on the market. Despite
that fact we were allowed to choose only the cheapest ones.
Another problem regarding ICB refers to switching equipment. Following the Resolution of the
Minister of Post and Telecommunications done in May 1993 with later amendment, TP S.A. may
buy equipment only from four suppliers for four systems which may be installed in the country.



Appendix B
8 of 8
Then, International Bidding Competition is not applicable. EIB accept such limitation therefore,
all switching exchanges were financed by their Bank.
Resuming, TP S.A. in the period 1900 -1998 has got a very good experience in implementation
investments projects and their financing according to international standards and rules.
IV. PLAN FOR OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE PROJECT
All necessary data concerning performance indicators are contained in Table No 5 in Section A
of this Report.



MAP SECTION



&~~~~~ltk $r ~~~~~~~~~~FIRST
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Gdanek                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT                   5
/       v                                                     i,        4       ~ 3 3 & 9    i   t *  'N  ol22t3rn                                                       9
.  ,  .  6  :&  .  9  v a X . , = . .  >,,3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .,     fC...=.i
Seczecin                                                                                                                         9~~~ ~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~700  2700 NnbesoCoe ort
,..-                                                             Balyntok                                         Ntjcroo'ave~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M,.   Redio Li,,ks
dgorz                                                i T...                                                       ..................Aru  &     Op=iafI  F6I.e Cable
Wkolk,;, &, ^ i&-vv                                                                               &                     =,&& && & && &y >,,, ,,'  ,  EUTELSAT Earth Statior
N.                                               ""                                                        *        Repeat-r --   ~   /   \,   O  P ojectStatrons
|     /                                                 j                          -  1;                                                            \                jK            ^       Trunk /  N.,,  2
AsdosO Torurn               \, ,, ,,,0     piclFbrCbe
9600 \                                                                               A'W'                                                  0    Slected tons
%        tsOX                                                              36v;69WARsAw                                     (    t                 °    Ss&lecteWATown
52'                                                                                                                           2"                                                             tgy  \  69 National Capital     52'
N,                              Skier...no. \X
N,                                 mew:5'                2      V                                                            Internathonal Boundaries
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N. LKuls                                                    ./                     '2           \            
Sierudz
/ 0 Redom
_ ~~~ t_ Wa~~lbrzYcAK2
/3 K 2700  )100
1'0
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                            as                                    22                                     22



