Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25389
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38230; SCL-3823A; SCPD-3823S; TF-23013)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 54 MILLION
TO THE
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A
HEALTH SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
March 10, 2003
Contry Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin Amenca and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of September 2002)
Currency Unit = Venezuelan Bolivar (VEB)
US$1 =   US$ 1,500VEB
US$ 0.67 = 1,000 VEB
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A.U. I,II,III:  Tipo Ambulatorio Rural (Ambulatory Rural Type)
A.R. I,11,11m:  Tipo Ambulatorio Urbano (Ambulatory Urban Type)
DCSS:         General Directorate of Health Sector
GDP:          Gross Domestic Product
ICB:          International Competitive Bidding
IDB:          Inter-American Development Bank
MOH:          Ministry of Health (MSAS and MSDS)
MSAS:         Ministry of Health and Social Assistance
MSDS:         Ministry of Health and Social Development
M&E:          Monitoring and Evaluation
NCB:          National Competitive Bidding
PAHO:         Pan-American Health Organization
PCU:          Project Coordination Unit of the MOH
PEUs:         Project Executing Unit of States
QAG:          Quality Assurance Group
RHD:          Regional Health Directorate
SISMAI:       Sistema de Informaci6n del Modelo de Atenci6n Integral
(Integrated Care Model Information System)
SIGHOSP:      Hospital Management Information Systemn
TORs:         Terms of Reference
WHO:          World Health Organization
Vice President:  David de Fenanti
Country Manager/Director:  Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana Maria A  riad
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sandra Rosenhouse



VENEZUELA
HEALTH SERVICE REFORM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                 13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                15
9. Partner Comments                                                               16
10. Additional Information                                                        17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33
Annex 8. Government Contribution                                                  34






Project ID: P008215                                      ProectName: HEALTH SERVICE REFORM
PROJECT
Team Leader: Sandra Rosenhouse                           TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type. Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 10, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH SERVICE REFORM PROJECT                  IJC/TF Number: CPL-38230;
SCL-3 823A;
SCPD-3823S;
TF-23013
Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Health (94%); Sub-national government
administration (5%); Central government
administration (1%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/10/1992                             Effective: 02/23/1996        02/23/1996
Appraisal:  06/17/1994                               MTR: 03/27/1999            03/27/1999
Approval:  12/13/1994                              Closing: 12/31/2000         06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA/MINISTRY OF BEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Marcelo Giugale                           Rainer Steckhan
Sector Manager:      Ana-Maria Arriagada                       Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:  Sandra Rosenhouse                         Karen Cavanaugh
ICR Primary Author:  Kye Woo Lee; Sandra
Rosenhouse
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to improve health outcomes for the 3 million users of government health
services in four project states (Aragua, Falcon, Trujillo, and Zulia), by helping the Government to:
(a) redefine key government health policies related to the organization and financing of health
services; (b) promote decentralization by building the capacity of the four states and their
respective health facilities to plan and manage health care in a decentralized framework; and (c)
enhance the quality and efficiency of government health services by rehabilitating plant and
replacing basic equipment in ambulatory clinics and hospitals. The project was expected to
contribute to poverty alleviation by improving the access of poor Venezuelans to good quality
health care services.
The development objectives were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy for
Venezuela, discussed by the Board in November 1993, which was to reduce public sector
imbalances, encourage private sector economic activities, and improve the efficiency of public
programs. In the social sectors, the emphasis was on increasing the efficiency of public spending,
supporting private sector delivery of services, and targeting basic services to the poor.
The project objectives were congruent with the priority needs of the health sector. Even though
Venezuela had made progress, health indicators were lower than would have been expected for a
country at a similar level of per capita income in 1992. Venezuela was undergoing an
epidemiological transition, and the health system was therefore increasingly stressed as it
attempted to cope with a growing range of problems, both old and new. The Health Ministry's
spending declined in real terms throughout the 1980s. In 1983, it amounted to about US$133 per
capita, but it fell to US$50 in 1993. This was equivalent to about 1.2% of GDP, lower compared
to almost all other countries in Latin America. The highly centralized Health Ministry's
organization and resource allocation created inefficiency in service delivery and did not provide
strong incentives for improving efficiency. The service delivery system was marred by the lack of
a coordinated referral system and low resolutive capacity of ambulatory clinics due to the poor
human resources endowment and deteriorating facilities and equipment.
The project objectives supported the Government's development strategy, which aimed to: (a)
restructure and downsize the central Ministry to assume a largely normative and supervisory role;
(b) decentralize management of health services to the states and municipalities; and (c) strengthen
the referral network of ambulatory clinics and hospitals. In addition, the Government was
considering how resource allocation policies and practices could be modified to ensure
cost-effectiveness and to build incentives for efficiency through greater management autonomy of
hospitals and performance agreements with states. The Government also acknowledged the need
to capture additional revenues through cost recoyery and private insurance schemes.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objectives were not revised during the project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
Component 1. Policy Analysis and Reform (US$4.5 million or 5% of total project costs). This
component was to support seminars, studies, and pilot experiments in four project states in four
- 2 -



key areas of policy reform: (a) increasing hospital autonomy; (b) rationalizing the health service
delivery model; (c) improving health financing; and (d) enhancing strategic public sector image
management.
These studies were to identify policy options and develop recommendations in one year (by
January 1996). Then, the Ministry of Health and the four project states, together with the Bank,
were to agree on a specific action plan for introducing reforms on a pilot basis, beginning in 1997,
and then mainstream them, incorporating lessons learned.
The recommendations from the financing and service delivery studies were expected to provide
the basis for the development and adoption of management systems under the second component.
And subsequent to the completion of the service delivery model study, rehabilitation of facilities
and equipment was to be provided for the services identified as high priorities for public financing
and at the service delivery level deemed appropriate.
The hospital autonomy study was to introduce alternatives for hospitals to improve management,
resource allocations and performance, and to develop technical, legal and administrative
mechanisms for implementation in at least one hospital per project state.
Rationalization of the service delivery model study was to develop an. alternative model for the
organization and staffing of health facilities, which would ensure the provision of the most
cost-effective services at different levels of health service delivery.
The improved health financing study was to lay the foundation for: (a) the health services to be
financed by the government; (b) resource allocation; (c) cost analysis and financing alternatives at
different health service delivery levels.
The strategic image management program consisted of: (a) training of health personnel in
negotiations, conflict resolution, effective communication, strategic image management, and
public relations; and (b) design and operation of systems for tracking public opinion.
Component 2. Institutional Development (US$23.7 million or 25% of total costs). This
component was to support the Government's strategy of decentralizing health service
management to the states by strengthening the capacity of four states to plan and manage health
care by: (a) providing basic management training to about 1,300 government health personnel
from the project and other states, and complementary management training to about 4,000 project
states' health personnel; and (b) designing and operating modernized systems for managing human
resources, strategic planning, drugs and materials, infrastructure and equipment maintenance,
financial resources, waste disposal, epidemiological information, and computerized information.
The computerized information system was to be introduced in four regional health directorates,
20 health districts and a subset of 25 hospitals in the four project states. The four project states
were: Aragua, Falcon, Trujillo and Zulia.
The studies carried out under the policy analysis component were to provide the basis for the
development of the management systems and the training programs that would support the new
-3 -



systems.
Component 3. Strengthening of Health Service Delivery (29.6 million or 70% of total project
costs). This component would finance the physical rehabilitation of about 427 ambulatory clinics
(107 in Aragua, 90 in Falcon, 95 in Trujillo and 135 in Zulia) and four hospitals (one per state),
including provision of equipment and furniture, for improved organization and efficiency of the
facilities.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no formally revised components
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and thus there
is no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality
of entry to be unsatisfactory. At appraisal, the project concept was consistent with the Bank
country assistance strategy and the identified priority needs of the sector. Furthermore, the
Government staff actively participated in the preparation of the project, which substantiated
Government ownership of the project.
In retrospect, however, the design of the project at entry was inadequate on two grounds. First,
the project design assumed that the introduction of policy reforms (5% of total costs) and
strengthening state institutions (25% of total costs) would be sufficient to ensure that the
rehabilitation of health facilities and equipment at the state level (70% of total costs) would have
sustainable impact on quality and efficiency of services. Accordingly, implementation of the
project components was designed to take place sequentially. Therefore, successful implementation
of the whole project hinged upon the successful implementation of the small yet important
component, i.e., policy analysis and institutional strengthening. This was a highly risky approach,
and- inappropriate for Venezuela given the poor performance of the other ongoing health
operation in the country at the time. The policy reform and the institutional development
components did not take place as envisaged, and the infrastructure improvement components
were carried out without a proper policy framework. Consequently, the project output goals
were grossly underachieved, and the attainment of the project objectives was substantially
undermined.
The project could have been designed differently. While designing it as two sequential projects
would have been ideal (a first project, focusing on the sector policy reform and pilot schemes with
substantial technical assistance; and a later project, focusing on the institutional strengthening and
infrastructure improvement) as was done in two operations in Chile (e.g. Chile- Technical
Assistance Project: Loan-3427, 1991; and Health Sector Reform Project: Loan-3527, 1992), this
option would probably have not been acceptable to the Venezuelan Government at the time. A
more realistic option would have been to reduce the number of reforms, and to introduce them in
a phased manner, allowing for the simultaneous implementation of management and infrastructure
improvements, also set up in phases.
Second, the appraisal team agreed that baseline data and indicators for monitoring and evaluation
of the project outputs and outcomes would be finalized after the sector policy reform studies were
-4-



to be completed. Given delays in the preparation of policy studies and the fact that many were
not adequately carried out, monitoring and evaluation indicators were not developed.
It is worth mentioning that the preparation team was able to accommodate the request of the
Government to develop a project consistent with a project developed by the IDB after preparation
had already begun. Initially, the project was conceived as a simple project: management
improvement of 30 hospitals. Later in October 1993, the Government asked the Bank to broaden
the scope of the proposed project objectives as mentioned above. Since the Bank had already
completed a comprehensive sector study prior to the identification of this project, it easily
accommodated the proposed revision of the project concept. This experience underscores the
high value of a quality sector study to be used as a framework for identifying and agreeing on a
project concept.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
It is too early to make a definitive judgment on the achievement of the project objectives as
impact will likely be more long-term. While some project outcomes are evident, the fact that they
were not measured, and that adequate health statistics to measure outcomes are limited, makes it
difficult to assess the extent to which they were attained. However, it is generally unsatisfactory
at this point.  Available health indicators are limited and subject to different degrees of
underreporting and reliability. However, available data indicate that the health status of 3 million
users of publicly provided health services in the four project states has not always improved more
than in Venezuela as a whole. (Data for "Venezuela" include a total of eleven states which were
subject of Bank (four states) and IDB (seven states) operations out of a total of 24 states, and
thus do not provide clean comparison groups, reducing the likelihood of detecting significant
change). In the case of Trujillo, general mortality rates (which assume smimlar age distributions in
each state and the country as a whole) show no reduction in mortality during the lifetime of the
project. Infant mortality rates declined in all states although declines were greater in Zulia and
Falcon than in Venezuela as a whole. Aragua and Trujillo reflected country-wide trends more
closely (see Annex 1.1).
To the extent that the rehabilitation and reequipping of ambulatory clinics took place, leading to
sharp increases in consultations in those facilities, the project contributed to the alleviation of
poverty since those clinics served mainly the poor. However, the rehabilitation and re-equipping
took place in only 40% of the targets expected at appraisal. (The 40% includes 14 ambulatories
that were completed after project closing or are nearing completion, and 3 ambulatories that were
not financed by the Bank because the required information was not submitted on time).
The unsatisfactory progress with regards towards achievement of project objectives and outcomes
in the project states may be attributable to the unsatisfactory achievement of the project outputs.
The policy analysis and pilot reform experimentation designed to redefine key health policies did
not achieve their expected results. Although the reform policy studies were completed in four
major reform areas, study recommendations were not adopted by the central and the state
governments, and no pilot reform experimentation was launched. While the results of the studies
conducted to develop alternative and more cost-effective models of health service organization
-5 -



were not implemented, information on priority interventions was utilized to develop a new model
of care. The state of Aragua developed and piloted, with loan financing, a new model of care
which served as the basis for the design of the Integrated Care Model introduced by the Ministry
in June 1999, as a standard for all states.
The Integrated Care Model sought to improve effectiveness and efficiency by reducing the
verticality and duplication of many programs, reducing redundant recording of information by
unifying recording into one instrument, improving indicators so that they reflect impact, not just
productivity, providing services at times that are convenient to users and avoid what was current
practice of making users return two or three times for separate services, and increasing the
emphasis on prevention. Services were reorganized into three groups: Integrated Care for
Children and Adolescents, Integrated Care for Adults, and Integrated Care for Women. An initial
version of this model was piloted in 11 ambulatory centers in Aragua during 6 months in 1998,
where they found productivity in some centers increased by as much as 80%, coverage increased
by 60% and underreporting of information declined. Given its success, the Ministry adapted and
enhanced this model of care and implemented it in all states, as of June 1999. The project
financed the workshops held to design and adapt the model, the pilots to test it and the training to
implement it. Training was given in all states, not just the four project states. It also developed
an information system to monitor the program and evaluate its effectiveness (SISMAI, Sistema de
Informaci6n del Modelo de Atenci6n Integral). SISMAI contains information on morbidity,
mortality, service productivity, immunization and special programs under epidemiological
surveillance. While the project did not finance the design of SISMAI, it did fund its
implementation in all four states, including computer hardware, software and training.
The strengthening of the health facilities' capacity to plan and manage health care in a
decentralized framework was only partially achieved through the staff training subcomponent, as
no management system modernization took place. However, although not measured, management
capacity at the state level was clearly strengthened, as there was no management expertise at that
level at the time of preparation. While decentralization of the health sector began in 1993, about
3 years before the project became effective, the project contributed to strengthening capacity in
the states, thereby facilitating the process of decentralization. The improvement of health service
delivery was achieved to some extent, but much less than the original project targets. Rather than
achieving  health sector reform, the project achieved health facility rehabilitation and some
extension of coverage.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Policy Analysis and Reform Measures. Unsatisfactory. Studies in four policy
areas were delayed, and only completed between October 1998 and July 1999. The study outputs
consisted of 27 volumes. These studies were supposed to be completed by January 1996.
Initiation of the studies was delayed mainly because the loan agreement only became effective one
year later (February 1996), and the contracting arrangements with consultants took longer than
expected due to the delays in budget allocations.
The studies were to provide a basis for the preparation of pilot reform measures, development of
training programs and management systems, and for the health service delivery systems in the four
project states. However, the Government found that some study outputs were incomplete and of
- 6-



poor quality, and, in two cases, refused to pay the full amount of the contract. According to an
analysis conducted by an external consultant hired by the Bank in August 2002, the Terms of
Reference (TORs) for the studies were of very high quality and addressed 80% of component
objectives. However, only two of the five studies employed adequate methodologies (hospital
autonomy and improving resource allocation). Two others addressed the objectives only
superficially and lacked a clear implementation strategy (shifting services to the most
cost-effective level and shifting to more cost-effective services), and the last one did not respond
to the TORs. The recommendations of the study on the development of a monitoring and
evaluation system for the program were never adopted as they were designed for a computer
system different from the one used by the Ministry of Health. .Part of the reason for the poor
quality of some of the studies was the inadequate supervision of the consultancies by the PCU.
The Ministry and the states sometimes lacked sufficient technical expertise on these issues, and
when expertise was available, follow-up was weak. The relevance of the studies could have been
improved had the Ministry of Health designated technical counterparts to follow-up on the
progress of the policy studies throughout their preparation. It should have also worked more
closely at all stages, with key staff in the General Directorate of Health Sector (DGSS), which
was responsible for sector policy development and coordination of health services delivery at the
Ministry. All key stakeholders, including state officials, Ministry officials and others also should
have been brought into the discussions to define terms of reference and discuss study results.
Greater participation by the states in the deflnition of the focus of the studies could have increased
ownership and the possibilities that more of the results would have been implemented. The PCU
paid attention mainly to the delivery of outputs and not the content of the results.
Given the issues noted above, it is not surprising that only part of one of the studies was ever
implemented (the study on improving resource allocation).
Since the initiation of the studies was delayed, and many study results were not useful, the states
developed their own health service delivery model (i.e., the integrated care model described
above). Central and state governments developed training programs and a few management
systems without a reform policy framework. Likewise, the strategic image management program
was not implemented, except for the publicity campaigns conducted in 1998, as the program was
designed to apply the policy study recommendations and the pilot program lessons to staff
training programs and communication strategies.
Component 2. Institutional Development: This component had two large subcomponents: one,
staff training; and the other, management system development and other institutional development
initiatives. Despite strong performance in the training subcomponent, overall, the performance of
this component is considered unsatisfactory because of the absence of systems development and
the lack of impact on project objectives.
Training: Satisfactory. Compared with the appraisal targets of training 1,300 personnel at the
national level on the decentralization process (basic management training) and 4,000 personnel in
four project states to meet their management needs (complementary training), the project trained
18,108 staff members, far exceeding the appraisal targets. These figures, however, include the
total number trained and may contain several staff members that attended several trainings. The
-7 -



project design planned for training staff both at the central level and in all the states. In practise,
training was limited to staff in the four project states, with the exception of training for the
Integrated Care Model, which was done for staff in all states. For the training program planning
and preparation, the PCU coordinated state efforts and contracted WHO/PAHO to assist in its
preparation. The states' Project Execution Unit (PEU) and the Regional Health Directorate
(RHD) collaborated well throughout the course of the training programs. State counterparts
prepared training materials and identified public and private entities for the supply of instructors.
Between project states, training materials and experiences were shared informally, enriching their
training courses and institutional capacities. In the case of the Integrated Care Model, staff from
Aragua, who had had more experience in implementing the new model of care, assisted in the
training of other states. Course topics were numerous, ranging from equipment maintenance, staff
motivation, basic and advanced management tools, strategic planning, and information
technology, to epidemiology, health communication, waste management, integrated care model
and community participation.
As a result of project activities, the states became more confident in their ability to plan and
organize training programs for staff at all levels. As training experience accumulated, logistics
and course materials improved, and staff morale was enhanced. Such training, however, needs to
be offered regularly as most medical doctors (generalists) in the rural and suburban areas stayed
on only one or two years to satisfy their compulsory service requirements, and then returned to
practice in urban areas or to pursue further specialized studies. Some efforts are being made to
reduce physician turnover in rural areas through a policy introduced in 1999 to attract and retain
physicians in rural facilities by offering them financial incentives. Sustainability of the strengthened
institutional capacity will be tested in the future.
Despite its institution building impact, this component had some weaknesses. The bulk of the
training courses were organized and conducted during the first few years of implementation
(1997-1999), without the benefit of a policy framework. There was insufficient coordination of
training at the national level. Lack of coordination was also evident in that staff received
information technology training without having access to computers, as the computerized
management and information systems were not installed in time. Also, the effectiveness of the
training was never evaluated. The evaluations conducted were assessed the quality of the trainers,
facilities, and course materials. Little or no emphasis was placed on the evaluation of the impact
of the training courses on the trainees' job performance. A Bank supervision mission in the last
year of implementation made some specific suggestions on how to develop an instrument to
assess immediate impact, but no instruments were developed. Part of the problem was that the
PCU lacked staff with the necessary skills to guide and provide technical support to a large-scale
training program. Training course offerings slowed down in recent years, and it is uncertain if the
courses would be offered on a continuing basis due to the uncertainty of future training budgets.
Management Systems Development: Unsatisfactory. Although management systems were
supposed to be developed and adopted in nine specialized management areas, such systems
developed and financed as part of the project. However, some states developed some information
systems on their own, financed with their own funds, such as SIGHOSP, a hospital management
information system. SISMAI was developed by the Ministry with inputs from the experience of
- 8-



implementation of the Integrated Care Model in Aragua. SISMAI was then expanded to most
states in the nation. Although the design of SISMAI was not a product of project investments,
trining for its implementation and the necessary hardware was financed with project funds. All
states except Zulia installed computer networks including 447 computers and 333 printers, and
training 1,253 users, although they have not developed a network yet. With the exception of
Falcon, the computerized information system has been developed mainly for human resources
management and administrative purposes at the state RHD and district levels.
Component 3. Strengthening Health Service Delivery. Unsatisfactory. Although 4 hospitals (one
in each of the four states) and 427 ambulatory clinics were to be rehabilitated and re-equipped to.
strengthen health service delivery in the four states, only 2 hospitals actually initiated rehabilitation
and considerably fewer ambulatory centers were rehabilitated.  The two hospitals under
rehabilitation (one in Aragua and one in Zulia) had, by loan closing, attained 57% and 50%
completion, respectively. Equipment for these hospitals was purchased with project funds. Three
other hospitals that were not rehabilitated were equipped with project funds (one in Aragua and 2
in Falcon). A total of 151 ambulatory clinics were rehabilitated, and 158 ambulatory clinics were
re-equipped, and thirty-two of the 158 ambulatory clinics that were re-equipped were not
rehabilitated under the project. Another 15 ambulatory clinics and two hospitals were still under
construction as of loan closing. In addition, 3 ambulatory clinics were completed with local funds
as the information needed to include expenditures for these works under the loan was not
submitted to the Bank on time. Nine of the ambulatory clinics under construction at loan closing
have been completed. Should the remaining 6 ambulatory clinics be completed (construction had
been suspended for some time in at least two, and completion rates vary between 36% and 65%),
appraisal targets would have been met by 40%. Although the states requested an extension of the
closing date or a new loan to finance the remaining clinics, these requests were not accepted by
the Bank since the closing date had been extended twice already, with insufficient progress after
each extension.
Most ambulatory clinics rehabilitated under the project were designed in 1997 and 1998 in the
first phase of the rehabilitation program. In 1998, the Government and the Bank became aware
that only some ambulatory clinics originally designated for rehabilitation could be financed by the
project. While there were discussions regarding the need to restructure the scope of the
rehabilitation program, the component was not restructured.
Although less than half of the original number of clinics were rehabilitated or reconstructed,
nearly double the project funds for this subcomponent were spent. The unit cost of rehabilitation
and equipment per clinic, respectively, increased, on average, almost five times in nominal terns
over the appraisal estimates. Overall adjustments to contracts were greatest in Trujillo (55%) and
Zulia (35%). In the case of Zulia the number of unfinished civil works was twice that of the other
states. In the case of the hospital under rehabilitation in Zulia (Hospital General del Sur) while no
increments were made to the value of the original contract, 2 out of the 5 floors of the hospital
were eliminated from the contract in order to be able to cover expenses with the contract in force.
Some of the contracts in Zulia were increased by as much as 114%.
The sharp increases in costs can be attributed to many factors. First, the original estimates
-9-



assumed primarily rehabilitation, i.e. repair of roofs, walls, floors, correction of water and
electrical supply, improvements in ventilation and air conditioning, and improving patient flow and
waiting areas. Many facilities required more serious rehabilitation and as many as 10 were totally
reconstructed. Second, the designs with which ambulatory works were bid were primarily
architectural plans. Given that no rigorous engineering studies were conducted prior to bidding,
and as a rule, no soil nor environmental studies either, many contracts had to be adjusted upwards
in order to accommodate the findings of these studies. Third, lax supervision led to considerable
lack of compliance by contractors, leading to further delays in execution and higher costs. All
construction contracts had to be extended at least once. Fourth, a price escalation clause was
included in earlier civil works contracts although they were to be completed in half a year. In
reality, most rehabilitation works were completed in a year or so, and inflation rates were high.
This was corrected only for the contracts made after the 1999 Bank supervision mission.
However, the most important factor responsible for the sharp cost increases over the appraisal
estimate was the expansion of the size of ambulatory centers by at least 100% of the original
designs agreed upon at appraisal. In Zulia, some facilities were 3 times larger than originally
estimated. Although some supervision missions noted problems with increased unit cost of the
rehabilitation of ambulatory clinics, neither the Bank nor the PCU reviewed the designs as part of
the approval process. In fact, the PCU did not review designs until the year 2000, and the Bank
only did so in the final year of implementation. Both the Bank and the PCU approved the bidding
documents without considering their implications for recurrent costs. Field visits would have
noted the over-dimensioned nature of new structures early on. In making their decision to
proceed with significantly larger ambulatory centers, the states apparently took into account the
expected increases in demand for health care in the future.
Moreover, the Bank supervision reports at that time noted that state governors were eager to
demonstrate their capacity to expand health service delivery before the forthcoming election in
1998. However, the constraint on public finances and health budget did not allow commensurate
increases in the number of doctors (e.g. less than 5% annual increase in Aragua during
1996-2000). While some incentives to work in more remote facilities have been given since 1999,
it is evident that more nei-ds to be done to fill the gap. Consequently, the expanded facilities are
often under-utilized.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. There were several positive institutional impacts of the project.
The rehabilitated and re-equipped hospitals and ambulatory clinics have strengthened capacity for
health service delivery.
State health authorities in four project states have strengthened their capacity to plan and organize
-10-



their health service networks and make investments on a project basis, especially in collaboration
with bilateral and multilateral assistance agencies.
Experience gained from Bank procurement processes also strengthened local procurement
capacity.
Both central level staff and state level staff benefited by learning a methodology to supervise civil
works in the field and how to collect and analyze data to assess program progress. The
methodology employed is now being utilized in the recently approved Caracas Metropolitan
Health Services Project.
Significant improvements were made in the financial management system that the project
employed.
The Integrated Care Model is fully implemented in all four states with a supporting information
system.
The project, especially the institutional development component, very likely facilitated the
Government's efforts to further decentralize public health services.
However, the goal of decentralization is still far out of reach. The majority of state health
personnel (between 70%-90%) are still on the federal payroll, and only 20% of state health
operational budgets are available for inputs other than personnel remuneration. And in states
where budgets have been assigned to hospitals and municipalities, their budgets as well as those of
their ambulatory clinics are often being executed centrally by the state health authority.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Political and economic developments in Venezuela over the second half of the 1990s have been
disruptive and continue to be so. Fluctuating oil prices, economic instability and political
disturbances have had adverse effects on project implementation through shortage of counterpart
funds, unstable tenure of sector leaders, and delays in execution.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the project implementation period, the Minister of Health changed frequently (seven times
in 7.5 years of implementation). Each new Minister started with little understanding of the
project, no ownership of the project (especially the policy reform component), and little or no
confidence in the project implementation team. The PCU Coordinator was changed by every new
Minister, altogether a total of 8 times during the project implementation period. Additionally,
both central and state governments failed to provide adequate counterpart funds in a timely
manner, in particular in the start up year of 1996. From 1997-2001, the health budget as a
percentage of the total government budget and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was stable or
increased slightly, but the project was allocated inadequate budgets with delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There was no commitment to project objectives on the part of the government except initially



during the project design. As a result, the PCU did not take adequate charge of the project,
except during the last 8 months of implementation when, as part of an internal evaluation of what
the project had accomplished to date, it became evident that implementation had been weak and
supervision insufficient. Part of the problem was that given the frequent changes in Project
Coordinator, PCU staff roles and responsibilities were frequently modified and several importat
tasks requiring supervision were left unattended. This was identified in 1998 and again in 2001.
No staff members were assigned specifically to follow up on the policy analysis and reform
component of the project even after the Bank requested that this be done. And field visits by PCU
staff were discouraged by management, thus only limited supervision took place. Only as late as in
March 2002, at the request of the Bank, were two engineers hired to make regular visits to the
civil works sites in the four project states.
S.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total expenditures incurred for the project, including some pending works to be completed with
Government funds after loan closing (the cost of additional works for the 2 hospitals and 7
ambulatory clinics that were incomplete at project closing is estimated at US$1.2 million), were
US$87.2 million, which is 80% of the total project cost estimated at appraisal (US$108.0 million).
A total of US$50.5 million were disbursed out of the US$54.0 million loan. The appraisal team
expected that project expenditures would reach 50% of the total cost by the end of the third year
of implementation (1997). However, the actual expenditures incurred by that time reached only
3% of the actual total project expenditures. Consequently, the project implementation period was
extended from the appraisal estimate of 6 years to 7.5 years. The much smaller actual total
project expenditures were due to delays in project implementation and lack of counterpart funds.
It is important to note that cumbersome procedures at the Central Bank and the Ministry of
Finance have severely affected the performance of whole Venezuelan portfolio in the past. This
led to the transfer of all Bank-funded Special Accounts to the Banco de Desarrollo in August
2001.
The total project cost was to be financed by the Government and the Bank at a 50% to 50% ratio.
However, in the end, the Government financed only 42%, and the Bank 58% of the actual total
expenditures. The actual Bank financing percentage was higher than envisaged, as the
Government requested the Bank, in October 1998, to increase its disbursement percentages for
civil works due to the lack of counterpart funds. While discussions were held during two
missions in 2001 regarding the need to decrease subsequently the Bank's disbursement share in the
civil works category, the Ministries of Finance and Planning never sent the corresponding request
to the Bank.
Counterpart financing was to be shared equally between the central Government and the four
project state governments (at 25% each). Given increased financing by the Bank, the central
Government and the states shared at 21% each. Despite delays in providing counterpart funds,
the states have discharged their financial responsibilities faithfully, and the cost sharing
arrangement has been successfully implemented in accordance with the decentralization policy.
The most prominent procurement method envisioned at appraisal was international com.petitive
bidding (ICB: 35% of total costs), followed by other methods (33%) and national competitive
bidding (NCB: 17%). In reality, ICB was used for only 24% of the total cost, while NCB was
-12 -



used for as much as 50% of total costs. While more equipment than expected at appraisal was
procured through ICB, more civil works were procured through NCB.since the thresholds and
ceilings for NCB had been amended in the legal agreement.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Unlikely. The policy analysis and reform measures are not likely to be sustained since few
recommendations of the Policy studies were adopted, and no pilot reform measures were selected.
The training subcomponent of the institutional development component is likely to be sustained if
the budget for training is provided annually. The institutional arrangements for training have been
established and some of the necessary knowledge and experience have been acquired by state
level staff. Training specialists still need to be incorporated to develop improved training plans
and evaluation instruments. Few modernized management systems were adopted, and therefore
they are not likely to be sustained. Some new management systems adopted partially, such as the
limited epidemiological information system and the hospital administration and human resources
management systems. These are likely to be sustained in the future. The strengthened health
delivery facilities are likely to be sustained if additional medical professionals are appointed and
adequate operating budgets, including those for maintenance, are provided.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In all project states, the PEU staff members have been absorbed into the autonomous state-level
health authorities or the state health secretariat. The PCU has been preparing a plan for future
operations of the project institutions with adequate monitoring and evaluation indicators.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. Bank performance in lending was mixed. On the positive side, the Bank project
team identified a project consistent with the sector needs of the borrowing country and the Bank's
country assistance strategy and sector policies. And the Bank team conducted the necessary
analytical work to permit it to adapt the focus of the project in line with the new request of the
Government. However, the project design and the quality of the project at entry were less than
satisfactory, and these deficiencies should have been identified by the peer reviewers and
management during the Banl's review processes. At the design stage, it should have been
recognized that the project development objectives were unlikely to be attained given the difficult
implementation experience of other Bank operations in the country and the project's reliance on
the adequate execution of a policy component whose results might be difficult to adopt politically
(see 3.5 Quality at Entry section).
7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory. In general, Bank supervision efforts were less than satisfactory. First, the
adverse effects of frequent changes in project management teams in the borrowing country were
aggravated by the unusually short tenure of each Bank task manager. During the project's 7.5
years of implementation, there were five Bank task managers. By the time task managers were
familiarized with the country and the project, they were changed. Task managers had insufficient
time to build working relations with the project management teams and to provide adequate
- 13 -



guidance and technical assistance.
Second, despite the fact that considerable technical assistance was given by the Bank to project
staff in the preparation of TORs for project monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and for the
evaluation of the project, the Borrower did not consider this a priority despite the Bank's
insistence. The Bank failed in not insisting on the importance of this. Thus, lacking adequate
tools to measure progress, task managers focused on the progress in disbursements and neglected
the progress in policy analysis and pilot reform programs. Consequently, the project's status and
development impact were continuously assessed as "satisfactory" mainly on the basis of the
progress in disbursements until the most recent task manager raised a red flag, and downgraded
the project to "unsatisfactory" during the last year of project implementation. While project
objectives were not adequately met, is worth noting that Bank supervision support had some
important positive impacts in the management and execution of the various project components,
particularly with regards to the financial management information system, and the civil works
management information system.
Third, although project implementation progress was unsatisfactory and project cost increases
were mentioned repeatedly in project supervision reports, task managers did not update the
project costs or reestimate the extent to which the project would achieve its outputs and
outcomes given the cost increases. Only in the last year of implementation did the Task Manager
hire a consultant engineer and prepare a basis for the PCU to estimate the actual project costs.
Fourth, the Bank never proposed that the project be restructured. The poor outcomes of the
studies conducted under Component 1 made it evident that the initial design was flawed. The
presence of a new government in the end of 1998 would have given the Bank a good opportunity
to propose a restructuring of the project objectives and content. The mid-term review was the
right tool to initiate this discussion, however a formal mid-term review was not conducted.
Rather, a supervision mission carried out in March 1999 was declared a midterm review given the
perceived project progress.
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed the project three times and was concerned with
the unsatisfactory performance and supervision of the project. The last review in 2000, however,
reluctantly gave a "satisfactory" rating, although all the review records pointed to an
unsatisfactory state of project implementation and supervision. This upgraded rating could
possibly have influenced the intensity of subsequent Bank supervision: in 2000, there was only
one limited supervision mission.
The supervision budget did not seem to have been used optimally or appropriately. Despite
project implementation problems, Bank supervision missions focused on conducting dialogue in
the capital city (Caracas), rarely visiting the four project executing states. Only one mission was
conducted in 1997 and in 2000. The 2000 mission consisted of a limited supervision mission, in
conjunction with supervision of another project and preparation of yet another. In 1999, one of
the two missions was also a limited supervision mission shared with other projects. The Bank
supervision efforts appear to have started following a routine, twice-a-year format only since June
2000. Moreover, the staffing of supervision missions was not adequate: despite the size of the
-14 -



infrastructure component, from January 1998 through January 2002 no missions included an
engineer or architect.
Bank management decided in June 2001 to lend for a health service decentralization project in the
Caracas metropolitan area. It may have been better to complete the on-going project and obtain
sufficient lessons before proceeding.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance was considered satisfactory as it actively participated
in project identification and preparation processes.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. For the reasons described in Section 5.2 (frequent staff turnover and lack of
counterpart funding) the Government's implementation performance was considered
unsatisfactory.
7 6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory. Although the implementing agency's performance improved in the project's latter
years, for the reasons described in Section 5.3, its overall performance was considered
unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Given the country's weak capacity to design and implement complex health reform, it
would have been preferable to proceed with simplified and phased reforms coupled with
management and infrastructure improvements, rather than preconditioning the other
components on the successful implementation of the policy analysis and pilot
experimentation component. This approach would have reduced the risk of costly delays and
would have permitted the phased construction of a policy framework to guide further institutional
development, while allowing for the strengthening of the health service delivery network and
management improvements. It would have also reduced the commitment fees for the Borrower
(Section 3.5).
8.2 Some key indicators to measure basic outcomes (such as increased coverage, quality
and efficiency) should have been agreed upon as part of appraisal and not left for
development during project implementation. Once the project was under implementation, the
project implementation unit was preoccupied with the project progress in the short-term and not
intent on long-term implementation efficiency and project impact evaluation (Section 3.5).
8.3 The preparation of policy studies should be carefully supervised. There should be
active participation of future beneficiaries of study results in the design of the studies and
- 15 -



the results should be openly discussed with stakeholders. In this project, the PCU was
concerned with delivery of outputs, but not much with the quality and relevance of the outputs.
The PCU did not have qualified counterparts to guide and monitor the policy studies. Few state
officials were asked to be closely involved in the preparation of the studies. International
consulting firms were often hired, but it appeared that they either did not know the local situation
well or did not monitor carefully the changing policy environment. Furthermore, the study results
were not openly discussed with the future users of the study results. Consequently, policy makers
at the state as well as central levels were not fully informed of the recommendations of these
studies and the rationales behind them (Section 4.2).
8.4 Projects should be restructured when government policy and priorities change to
ensure relevance and impact.   This is especially relevant when faced with a new
Government administration. Given the poor performance of the policy component, the Bank
could have taken advantage of the presence of a new government to restructure the project to
align it with the Government's new priorities. This would have ensured greater Borrower
commitment and ownership, and relevance of results. The opportunity could have been used to
improve other aspects of implementation (Section 7.2).
8.5 The design of training programs should include an evaluation scheme as an integral
part of the overall training program. Ensuring that the training offered addresses existing
gaps, and measuring the impact of the training programs on staff attitude changes and
on-the-job performance, would have been crucial to evaluate the training program's
effectiveness and relevance (Section 4.2).
8.6 When sector leaders and the project implementation team coordinators change
frequently in the borrower country, the Bank should make an extra effort to cushion the
project from the adverse impact of such frequent changes. Bank supervision missions may
organize induction sessions, project launch seminars, or other innovative attempts to incorporate
new implementation actors. The Bank may also make extra efforts to maintain the same task
manager for a reasonable time period (Sections 5.2 and 7.2).
8.7 The Midterm review should be used in a planned and strategic manner for efficient
project implementation, impact evaluation, and, if needed, restructuring of the scope and
content of the project (Section 7.2).
8.8 Bank supervision missions should make a strategic plan to visit project sites and
measure the results on the ground throughout the entire implementation period (Section
7.2). In addition, the composition of those teams needs to be appropriate to address key
implementation issues.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's comments to the draft ICR were incorporated into the text. The Borrower's
own contribution to the ICR is in agreement with the Bank's overall assessment of project
performance, and is included in Annex 8.
- 16 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.
10. Additional Information
ICR Team
Sandra Rosenhouse (ICR Task Leader)
Helen Saxenian (Health Economist)
Kye Woo Lee (Consultant)
Carolyn Shelton (Junior Professional Associate)
Natalia Moncada (Program Assistant)
Comments provided from:
Patricio Marquez (Lead Health Specialist)
David F. Varela (Country Manager, LCCVE)
Suzana Campos Augusto (Lead Operations Officer)
Mark Hagerstrom (Prior Country Sector Leader, LCSHD)
Daniel Cotlear (Country Sector Leader, LCSHD)
Karen Cavanaugh (Prior Task Team Leader)
PCU Staff
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
*NOTE: This annex is reproduced from Table IV C in the SAR
Subcomponent            Evaluation Indicators At Appraisal          ActualLatest
Estimate
Hospital         hospitals in project states with legal and administrative
utonomy Study autonomy
Service Delivery volume and type of services shifted from inappropriate to
Model study    appropriate facility levels in each state
Improved        hare of health budget in each project state redistributed to
inancing      more cost effective services
umber of project states receiving health observation budget
esources from MSDS through performance agreements by
nd of project
hare of hospitals and ambulatory clinics by type in each
te receiving resources
rom state through performance agreements by end of projec
hare of hospitals and ambulatory clinics by type in each
tate operating cost accounting system by end of project
verage share of net income of hospitals and ambulatory
linics by type in each state whLich comes from insurance
_ayments and users fees by end of project
trategic Image  blic Opinion about quality and efficiency of health
Management      ervices in project states by end 1997
Dther Initiatives  overment has developed project proposal for    Caracas
; trengthening health services in Caracas            etropolitan Health
Management      hare of trained personnel whose performance improves  ervices Project
Training        ccording to training objectives                    approved June 2001
Program            .
Management       dicators to be developed for measuring impact of:  improved waste
Systems          proved resource management                        disposal
uccessful use of strategic planning tools            proved use of
improved management of materials                   epidemiological
improved maintenance                                 formation
mproved financial management                       improved use of
improved waste disposal                              anagement
improved use of epidemiological information          formation
"proved use of management inforrnation
titutional   Actions taken on basis of studies financed in each state
evelopment
upport Fund
trengthening of  dicators to be developed for measuring impact of:
Health         ehabilitation and equipping of 427 ambulatory clinics
ervice Delivery  habilitation and equipping of 4 hospitals  ..
- 18-



Annex 1.1 (a) Infant Mortality Rates by Project State
Infant Mortality Rates by Project State
0   40 
.' 35 --Venezuela
a) 30
-   25           7SU dt I4WW-              *                    -3-Aragua
20 0           -                                             - a  Falcon
X   15                                                C
' 10                                              _   ~:    -*Trujillo
1992    1995    1996    1997   1998    1999    2000
Annex 1.1 (b) General Mortality Rates by Project State
General Mortality Rates by Project State
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 W 1                             Vnezuelal
o    j      -                                                                  I- 
4.          ___ _                                        . = = = -     Aragua 
S  3-                                            -  -l-
X 2 _ > 2 = | > - ~~~~~~~~~~~~Falcon 
O 1*- Zulia
1992        1996    1997     1998      1999     2000
- 19-



Annex 1.1 (c) MSAS Consultations per capita per year in project states
I_____ _  Aragua  I      Falcon      I     Trujillo             Zulia             Venezuela
At   Actual/LatesJ  At  Actual/Latest  At  Actual/Latest  At   Actual/Latest  At   Actual/Lates
Appraisal Estimate  Appraisa  Estimate  Appraisal  Estimate  Appraisal  Estimate  Appraisal  Estimate
__,2-__. .u r,.                                          -                              r
Population       13069     106,971  673,701  764,526   544,201   612,697        6       5       0000        08
Consultations     600 000  2,749,576  500,000  923 744  370,000  492,553 11121,972  1,566,361  947      Unavailable
Consultations/capita  05     1.8      0.7      1.2       0.7       0.8       0.4       0.5       0.5    Unavailable
Annex 1.2(n) Key Performance Indicators:
Outputs
Number           Estimated          Number         Completion
Outputs Indicators         Estimated At   Completion Date      Completed           Date
L__________________________       Appraisal       At Appraisal     _     _     _     I _
A. l/oliky Anialysis and Reform
1. Hospital Autonomy Study        07 Products        I-Oct-97         07 Products       I-Dec-98
2. Health Service Delivery Models                    NOT DEVELOPED
3. Improved Health Financing
3A. Priority Health Services for  04 Products        17-Mar-97        04 Products       16-Oct-98
Financing & Timetable
3B. Mechanisms for Resource       07 Products        1-Sep-97         07 Products       1-Apr-99
Allocation
3C. Costs and Financing            11 Products       1-Aug-97         07 Products       31-Jul-99
Alternative  -_                        _                  _
3D. Performance Agreements        03 Products        1-Aug-97         02 Products       31-Jul-99
4. SIMEI - Impact Measurement     05 Products        15-Aug-97        04 Products       15-Apr-98
and Evaluation System                          _
5. Strategic Image Management         Publicity Campaigns were conducted in 1998.          Y
6. Other Health Policy Initiatives               NOT DEVELOPED
B. Institutional Development                   I_               _ __     ________
Throughout 5
1. Management Training Program  5300 Participants  To be determined      18108       years of
.___ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ __ _  __ _ __ __ __ __ ___   Im plem entation
Regional Health Progressive
Management Systems             Directorates (DRS) development over 5
- 20 Districts - 25 years of project
Hospitals        implementation
-20-



2A. Design of Information Systems
for:
evelop 1 system Progressive
Human Resource Management    f each type in  eears of project
ach project state  mplementation
Strategic Planning
Drugs and Materials Management
Infrastructure and Equipment
Waintenance
Financial Administration
ll facilities have a
olid waste system  Some taining
Solid Waste Management System                ncorporated0 into  cometrammg
municipal sewer
y stem
Falcon,
throughout 5
Epidemiological Information                                    States           ears of
Implementation,
others, after
2000.
SISMAI:
information system
o support integrated
care model
Management Information to                                      ontaining data to
upport above systems                                            onitor and
valuate the model,
including
pidemiological data
ince 2000.
e following were
Progressive  installed:
CompnInstallation and User  stall 370  dvogressive  r 47 Computers    Aragua trained in
Computer                       omputers and   evelopment over 5 18 Servers      1999 - Trujillo &
ra3ning                      rain 740 users  ears of project   33 Printers      alc6n in 2002
users mplementation  65 Regulators
1253 Users trained
n   Progressive      26 Studies including  oughout 5
3. Institutional Development  Support State  development over 5 cholarships,    ears of
Support Fund                  Health Studies   ears of project  onferences,     implementation
_______ _______ _______ _  _____ _____ implementation  workshops
.s i eg il it Iiiiig. tiealtb Servicv
Rehabilitated
Hospitals (Zulia
Hospital Geneal del  oughout 5
l. Hospital Rehabilitation and  4 Hospitals (I in  ro be determined  Sur 51% - Aragua  years of
Equipment                     ach project state)               Hospital de Villa de implementation
Cura 57%)
H3[ospitals
Equipped (Falc6n   _
-21 -



166 Rehabilitated
Clinics: 151
ambulatory clinics
100% completed
(141 rehabilitated &
10 totally
reconstructed) - 15
27 Ambulatory                   clinics under
Clinic Rehabilitation  d     Clinics (Aragua                  construction. [ For Throughout 5
Equipmlc Rentbllltatlon and  107 - Falc6n 90 -  Fo be determined  percentage   years of
Dquipment                   Trujillo 95 - Zulia              completion for the  implementation
135)                             15 clinics and 2
hospitals see Annex
1.2 (b).]
158 Ambulatories
equipped, of which
32 were not
rehabilitated by the
project.
-22-



Annex 1.2 (b): Civil Works Not Completed as of June 30,2002
He                        %     Completion    World Bank         MSDS          States      Total Amount
Stat  -alh       CtgrCoInvestm ent
Facilo                Completed    Date      Investment (Bs.)  (Is.)       Investment (Bs.) Invested (Bs.)
Mendoza Fria A.R.I1**   900/o     15-07-02    61,408,195.58   63,830,867.86  31,309,765.86  156,548,829.31
Bambues     A.U.I***    80%       30-10-02    102,570,492.00  34,190,164.00  34,190,164.00  170,950,820.00
TRUJILLO La Mata       A.R.I1      85%       30-08-02    81,569,408.98   94,280,715.71  27,189,802.99  203,039,927.68
Kilometro 23 A.RII      92%       15-09-02    95,899,089.02   90,561,962.77  31,966,363.01  218,427,414.79
La Esperanza A.R.11     90%       15-09-02    91,133,803.56   98,213,195.95  30,377,934.52  219,724,934.03
SUBTOTAL        5                            432,580,989.14  381,076,906.29  155,034,030.38  968,691,925.81
La Misi6n   A.U.I       35%       30/11/02    47,741,135.67   15,913,711.89  15,913,711.89  79,568,559.45
Uni6n       A.U.I       65%      Suspended    101,144,672.52  33,714,890.84  33,714,890.84  168,574,454.20
Federaci6n  A.R.II      80%       31/08/02    114,506,782.57  38,168,927.52  38,168,927.52  190,844,637.62
Hospital
General del  HOSP. IV   51%       4/30/03    1,041,963,369.46  347,321,123.15  347,321,123.15  1,736,605,615.77
Sur                                                 .                                 .
ZULIA*    El silencio  A.U.III    65%      Suspended   417,275,828.63  139,091,942.88  139,091,942.88  695,459,714.38
Carorita    A.U.1       700%      11/15/02    86,429,639.56   28,809,879.85  28,809,879.85  144,049,399.26
Soliva      A.U.1       900/o     31/08/02    128,774,631.57  42,924,877.19  42,924,877.19  214,624,385.95
Soiearra
Maestra     A.U.I       92%       31/07/02    97,306,559.57   32,435,519.86  32,435,519.86  162,177,599.29
Curazaito   A.R.I       85%       31/07/02    52,278,672.76   17,426,224.25  17,426,224.25  87,131,121.26
Corito II   A.U.II      90%/0     31/08/02    152,232,009.00  50,744,003.00  50,744,003.00  253,720,015.00
SUBTOTAL       10                            2,239,653,301.31  746,551,100.43  746,551,100.43  3,732,755,502.18
Ampliaci6n  A.U.I       95%       15-09-02    270,433,050.17  90,144,350.06  90,144,350.06  450,721,750.28
ARAGUA     San Casimiro__                      _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  __    _  _ _  _  _
HOSPVleCura  HOSP.II    57%       30-12-02    375,000,000.00  125,000,000.00  125,000,000.00  625,000,000.00
SUBTOTAL        2                             645,433,050.17  215,144,350.06  215,144,350.06  1,075,721,750.28
TOTAL          17                            3,317,667,340.62  1,342,772,356.78 1,116,729,480.87 5,777,169,178.27
*   Suspended works in Zulia are awaiting approval of resources from the State
** Ambulatorio Rural Tipo lI
*** Ambulatorio Urbano Tipo I
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a.1 Total Project Cost bv Component
LA      I    .,       . .i                A 4  .&iA atA' ..
Hospital Autonomy       0.20    0.10    0.30   0.87 0.15  1.01  0.87   0.15   1.01  434  146     338
Rationalization of Service  0.40  0.20   0.60  0.01 0.00   0.01  0.41   0.20   0.61  2     0       1
ImprovedHealth?Financing  1.20   1.10    2.30  2.42 0.86   3.28  2.80   1.23   4.03  202  78      143
Strategic Image          0.30    0.80    1.10  0.01 0.19  0.20   0.01   0.19   0.20  3    24       18
Other Initiatives        0.10    0.10 10.20   10.00 10.60 10.60 10.00 10.60 10.60    0 1600 1     300
Subtotal                 2.20    2.30    4.50  3.31  1.80   f 5.11  4.09 12.37 -6.45  1501 78 1   113
Management Training    2.50    1.50    4.00   1.94 1.02  3.93   1.94  1.98   3.93  78   132      98
State Mana-gement-SYstems  3.55  5.35    8.90  0.14 0.40   0.54  1.54   1.80   3.34  4     8       6
Institutional Development  2.07  3.83    5.90  0.49 0.29   1.15  0.49   0.66   1.15  24    17      19
Project Management       1.68    3.22    4.90  10.14 1.06  11.72  10.14  1.58  11.72 603  49      239
Subtotal                 9.80   13.90   23.70  12.71 2.781 17.34  14.11 16.02  20.14 1130 133      73
I    ~                               _
Hospital Rehabilitation an  22.34  14.06  36.40  0.37 4.15  4.52  4.20  18.90  23.10  2   30       12
Ambulatory Clinic        12.76   16.84  29.60  33.25 20.12 53.37 68.00  87.40  155.50 261  119    180
Subtotal                 35.10  30.90   66.00  39.49 24.79 59.28  72.20 106.30 178.60 96  79       88
Physical Contingencies   3.60    3.60    7.20  0.00 0.00   0.00  4.10   3.10   7.20   0    0       0
Price Contingencies      3.30    3.30    6.60   0.00 0.00  0.00  3.90   2.70   6.60   0    0       0
Operating costs                                 0. 00 5.48  5.48  0.00  0.00   0.00  150    8     11
C4'A .g, LT                   -     ---               r -  
Managementraining   254,  10   a  4.0    1.94 1.0   3.93   1.4   120.98  3.93  1 78 12      go9
24- 



Annex 2b1. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Appraisal (SA) Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
. : -  ,.- 'Pr r IL J  II i' ki . Method  wB   LCB   Other     Non-Bank      Total Cost
.   .  . . _.             . .        .           B~~~~~~~~~inanced
A. Civil Works                                      8.7   7.9     5.1                     21.7
(5.2) (_4.7)  (3-1)                   (13.0)
B. Medical & Non-Medical Equipment and Vehicles     26.9   10.5  1.0 2/                   38.4
.(16.1)  (6.4)  (0.6)                 (23.1)
C. M1S Equipment                                    2.6                                    2.6
(2.6)                                  (2.6)
D.1 Training                                                      9.2                      9.2
(4.6)                    (4.6)
E. Consulting Services                                           21.3                     21.3
(10.6)                   (10.6)
Operations                                                                   3.6           3.6
G. Consumable Materials                                                      0.3           0.3
Maintenance                                                               10.9          10.9
TOTAL    38.2   18.4  36.6        14.8         108.0
.______________________________________________________  (24.0)  (11.1)   (18.1)  ._ . _._ (54.0)
I/Shopping and direct contracting
2/Shopping
() Bank Loan funded
Annex 2b2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Actual At Closing) (US$ million equivalent)
* \- .  aS6^nKf/PMDUeWI1} Method             j<B    LCH   Other    Non-Bank      Total Cost
(*)     Financed
A. Civil Works                                       0     41.8    0                       41.8
(20.9)
B. Goods, l[ncluding Medical Equipment and Computer  13     1.6   0.3       3.00           17.9
Equipment                                                                                  (14)
E. Consultants Services Including Training and Studies  7  12.6    0                       19.6
__________________________________________________  _____(15.5)
F. Operations                                                                6.8           6.8
G. Consumable Materials                                                      0.3           0.3
H. Maintenance                       '_                                 -_0.2              0.2
TOTAL    20.0   56.0   0.3        10.3          86.6
(50.5)
(*) CPN - CONSULTA DE PRECIOS NACIONAL
() Bank Loan funded
*Annex 413 relects changes made in Amendment 2 of the Loan Agreement.
-25-



Annex 2c. Project Cost by Expenditure Category
Expenditure                -_-
Plbnned Amount At Appraisal                      Aetuallatest Eitiimat  -
-World                                                 - .            - .  .   ,  ,-  TOT.,
.  . Bank    MSDS        States    TOTAL                    MSDS         t.-          AL
__  __ __    __  __ _B                            a nk                            -
1. civil
Works         23,800,000  9,950,000  9,950,000  43,700,000  20,938,000  10,566,000  10,365,000  41,869,000
2. Goods:
Medical
equipment,
Non-medical   13,600,000  5,250,000  5,250,000  24,100,000  13,795,000  1,379,000  2,446,000  17,620,000
equipment
Computers                                                                                       . .
3.
Consultant
Services,     16,600,000  6,800,000  6,800,000  30,200,000  15,770,000  3,255,000   825,000    19,850,000
Training,
etc.                    .
4. Recurrent
Costs             0       4,100,000  4,100,000   8,200,000      0       2,586,000   4,185,000  6,771,000
5.
Consumable        0       600,000     600,000    1,200,000      0        135,000     190,000    325,000
Materials
6.
Maintenance       0       300,000     300,000    600,000        0         6,000      184,000    190,000
TO5s-i<0000q i27.-O' -'20,0 ,OOO' :.'ttv~iOh000 0 Xj      9O: .BO               , 0625,000
ofTi            50.0% Y.-  15.OW'    -2  ~0%6 ~.i00.0%1    7                                    ;58~ - O-/2
-26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-27-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle     --     No. bf Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
Month/Year    .    . ...(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
.  -Monith/ea Count       Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
2/1992                   2   HEALTH ECONOMST (1);
PUBLIC HEALTH (1)
3/1993                   4   PUBLIC HEALTH (2);
ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
ANALYST(1)
10/10/03                 2   PUBLIC HEALTH (2)
6/1994                       PUBLIC HEATLH (1); HEALTH
ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
ANALYST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/1994                   7   TASK MANAGER (1);
PUBLIC HEALTH (2);
TRAINING SPECIALIST
(1); ECONOMIST (1);
ARCHITECT (1);
OPERATIONAL
ASSISTANT(1)
Supervision
06/03/1995               4   ECON. (2); PUB. HEALTH         S           S
NUTRITION (1);
PROCUREMENT (1)
11/11/1995               4   PUB. HEALTH NUTRITION         S            S
(1); DISBURSEMENTS (1);
PROCUREMENT (1);
ARCHITECT (1)
05/10/1996               2   SOCIAL SECTOR ECON. (1);      U            S
PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)
05/10/1996               2   SOCIAL SECTOR ECON. (1);      U            U
PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC. (1)
12/27/1996               6   TASK MANAGER (1);              S           S
CONSULTANT (3) PUB. HLTH
SPEC. (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
07/15/1997                7  OPERATIONS SPECIALIST          S           S
(1); SR PUBLIC HLTH SPEC
(1); HEALTH CARE FINANCE
(1); ENGINEER (1); PUBLIC
HEALTH SPEC (1); SOCIAL
SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
HOSPITAL ADM[NISTRATOR
(1)
01/16/1998               5   TM/TEAM LEADER (1);            S           S
OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
(1); HEALTH SPECLALIST (1);
NGO SPECIALIST (1);
- 28 -



ARCHITECT (1)
07/17/1998              6  TEAM LEADER (1);             S          S
OPERATIONS SPECIALIST
(1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
INST. DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
HLTH NUTRITION SPEC. (1);
PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST/ARCHITECT
03/27/1999              6  SR. HLTH SPEC. (1); INST.    S          S
DEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1);
PROCUREMENT ANALYST
(1)
OFFICE MANAGER (1); OPER.
CONSULTANT (I);
DISBURSMENT OFFICER (1)
10/28/1999              7  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S          S
COUNTRY OFFICER (1);
CONSULTANT (2);
OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
RESIDENT REPRESENT. (1)
06/23/2000              5  TASK TEAM LEADER (I);        S          S
HEALTH SPEC. (1); PROC.
SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
MGMT. SPECIALIST (1)
03/02/2001              2  SR. PUBLIC HEALTH (1);       S          S
PROCUREMENT (1)
06/28/2001              1  PUBLIC HEALTH (1)            S          S
01/30/2002              3  TM-SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST     S          S
(1); PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1);
CONS.-ENGINEER (1)
05/24/2002              4  TM/SR. HEALTH SPECIALIST     U          U
(1); FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC.
(1); HEALTH FINANCE SPEC.
(1); ENGINEER (1).
ICR
09/013/2002            2    JUNIOR PROF.
ASSOCIATE (1);
CONSULTANT (1)
-29 -



(b) Staff:
Staige of?Project Cycle  - -   '             Actual/Laltest Estimate
,, -. : .'. -~No. Staff weeks                   .        .....''''"' '--US$ (000) --,.
Identification/Preparation                 183.0                       379,149
Appraisal/Negotiation                        n/a                           n/a
Supervision                               115.45                       279,059
ICR                                         0.81                         3,025
Total                                     299.26                       661,233
e This table is based on the information currently in SAP. The figures for staff weeks for identification/preparation and part of
supervision are only estimated. No data is available for appraisal/negotiation. For data before FY98, the information system
provides total amounts, without disaggregating by number staff weeks and project cycle stage.
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
F Physical                          O H OSU*M O N O NA
Z Financial                         OH   OSUOM     ON   ONA
z Institutional Development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
FEnvironmental                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
FPoverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N O NA
ZGender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
Li Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM ON * NA
 Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
 Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 31-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
FS Lending                                           OHS Os OLu OHU
0 Supervision                                        OHS OS       OLu    OHU
F Overall                                            OHS OS       O  u   O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
X Preparation                                        OHS OS       O  u   O HU
X Government implementation performance              O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
? Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS       O U    O HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS OU OHU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Staff Appraisal Report Health Services Reform Project. November 9, 1994.
2.     Loan Agreement Health Services Reform Project. October 12, 1995.
3.     Medina, Gabriel. "Informe General sobre el Componente de Rehabilitaci6n Fisica y
Equipamiento de Establecimientos Ambulatorios y Hospitales."World Bank,.January 2002.
4.     Informe Preliminar Ejecuci6n de Metas, PCU, Ministry of Health and Social Development,
Caracas, Venezuela, January 2002.
5.     Inforrne de Cierre Final, PCU, Ministry of Health and Social Development, Caracas, Venezuela,
October 2002.
6.     Modelo de Atenci6n Integral, Cuadernos para la Reforma, Vol. 1, No. 3, Oct. 1999.
7.     Saxenian, Helen. "Venezuela Health Sector Review." Vol. I-IB. May 14, 1993. World Bank.
8.     Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela - Investing in human capital for growth, prosperity, and
poverty reduction,World Bank. Report 21833-VE. March 2001.
9.     Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission, September 9-13, 2002.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution
1. EVALUACION DEL OBJETIVO Y DISENO DE DESARROLLO Y CALIDAD AL INICIO
1.1. Objetivo Inicial
A. El SAR establece como objetivos del Proyecto de Reforma de los Servicios de Salud: i) Redefinir politicas
claves de salud del Gobiemo en relaci6n con la organizaci6n y fmanciamiento de los servicios de salud ii)
Promover la descentralizaci6n mediante dotaci6n de capacidades en los cuatro estados y sus respectivos centros
de salud, para planificar y gerenciar los cuidados de salud en un marco de trabajo descentralizado y iii) Mejorar
la calidad y eficiencia de los Servicios de Salud gubemamentales, mediante la rehabilitaci6n de la red ambulatoria
y establece la intervenci6n de 1 (un) hospital de alta complejidad o 2 (dos) hospitales de mediana complejidad
siempre y cuando sean necesarios para apoyar los servicios de diagn6stico y tratamiento de aquellos que no esten
contenidos en el nivel primario de atenci6n a la poblaci6n y el reemplazo de equipos basicos en ambulatorios y
hospitales. Estos objetivos se lograrian a traves de los componentes Analisis y Reformas de Politicas,
Descentralizaci6n y Desarrollo Institucional y Fortalecimiento de la Prestaci6n de Servicios de Salud.
A continuaci6n se describe c6mo se previ6 la ejecuci6n de los Componentes del Proyecto:
Componente A: Analisis y Reforma de Politicas
1. Autonomia hospitalaria: el objetivo era desarrollar e introducir altemativas para la organizaci6n legal y
funcional de hospitales con el fin de mejorar la gerencia, asignaci6n de recursos y ejecuci6n, emprendiendo un
Estudio de Autonomia de Gesti6n de los Servicios y Sistemas de Salud.
2. Racionalizaci6n de los modelos de prestaci6n de servicios: El fm era desarrollar un modelo alterno para la
organizaci6n y contrataci6n de personal de los establecimientos de salud que aseguraria el suministro del
servicio al nivel mas costo-efectivo, el estudio mejoraria la eficiencia productiva del sistema de salud y tambi6n
desarrollaria los cambios administrativos y legales requeridos para implementar el nuevo modelo.
3. Mejoramiento del financiamiento de la salud: buscaba apoyar a traves del despliegue de una serie de
estudios estrategicos interrelacionados para cumplir con los objetivos tales como: i) Focalizaci6n de la inversi6n,
con la aplicaci6n de la consultoria Focalizaci6n de la inversi6n puiblica en salud a nivel nacional e
implementaci6n del programa de atenci6n integral a la salud (PAIS), ii) Mecanismos de asignaci6n de recursos
con la elaboraci6n da la consultoria Estudio del diseffo de mecanismos de asignaci6n de recursos financieros al
interior del sistema de salud. iii) Costos y Tarifas, con la definici6n de un sistema de costos y tarifas para los
servicios de salud. iv) Compromiso de desempeflo con el desarrollo de la consultoria diseffo de un sistema de
compromisos de desempefno para la gesti6n coordinada entre los niveles centralizados y descentralizados del
sector salud en Venezuela.
4. Gerencia estrategica de imagen y relaciones: apoyaria: i) Disefno e introducci6n de sistemas para seguir la
opini6n puiblica; ii) Entrenamiento y servicios de consultorias al Ministerio de Salud y Desarrollo Social
(M.S.D.S.) y a los directivos regionales de salud. iii) Entrenamiento del personal del proyecto en gerencia
estrategica de imagen y relaciones puiblicas. iv) Desarrollo de una estrategia de comunicaci6n.
5. Otras iniciativas de politicas: realizaria estudios relativos a la organizaci6n de los servicios de salud en la
ciudad de Caracas, asi como las necesidades de informaci6n en los diferentes niveles del sistema.
6. SIMEI (Sistema de Medici6n y Evaluacion de Impacto): con la realizaci6n de un disefio de un sistema de
medici6n y evaluaci6n de los impactos del Proyecto Salud y sus dos programas "Reforma de los servicios de
salud" (BM) Y "Fortalecimiento y modernizaci6n del sector salud" (BID). Implantaci6n en los estados Aragua,
Falc6n, Trujillo y Zulia.
Componente B: Desarrollo Institucional
1. Programa de Entrenamiento Gerencial: apoyaria la descentralizaci6n y enfatizaria el desarrollo de
-34-



habilidades requeridas para mejorar la ejecuci6n y una implementaci6n exitosa del proyecto. Siendo estructurado
pam fomentar el intercambio entre el personal de los cuatro (4) estados, incluyendo: i) Entrenamiento gerencial
basico: disefnado y gerenciado a nivel nacional, con el objetivo de preparar a 1300 personas del Ministerio de
Salud y Desarrollo Social (M.S.D.S.) a nivel regional y distrital, para el proceso de descentralizaci6n. Ii)
Entrenamiento Gerencial complementario: disefnado y manejado a nivel estatal, con el objetivo de apoyar el
entrenamiento gerencial para aproximadamente 4000 personas (1000 por estado a 200 por aflo), respondiendo a
las necesidades de gerencia de cada estado y a la capacitaci6n operacional para entrenamiento gerencial, este
programa se complementaria con la formaci6n a nivel de postgrado para hasta 5 personas por cada estado en
gerencia hospitalaria, administraci6n de salud publica, epidemiologia y economia de la salud.
2. Sistemas Gerenciales: favoreceria el desarrollo e introducci6n de sistemas para: i) Gerencia de Recursos
Humanos; ii) Planificaci6n Estrategica; iii) Gerencia de Medicamentos y Materiales; iv) Mantenimiento de
Equipos e Infraestructura; v) Administraci6n Financiera; vi) Gerencia de Desechos; vii) Informaci6n
Epidemiol6gica; viii) Informaci6n gerencial computarizado, el desarrollo del mismo incluira entrenamiento a las
cuatro Direcciones Regionales de Salud, los 20 distritos sanitarios y un grupo de 25 hospitales.
3. Fondo de Apoyo de Desarrollo Institucional: incluiria un fondo disefiado para ejecutar en los cuatro (4)
estados, las recomendaciones que surjan de los estudios de las politicas en el primer componente, asi como para
responder a las necesidades especificas de desarrollo institucional que puedan surgir en cada estado.
Componente C: Fortalecimiento de la Prestaci6n de Servicios de Salud
1. Rehabifitaci6n de hospitales y Equipos Bisicos: apoyaria la rehabilitaci6n de cuatro (4) hospitales (uno por
estado) con una capacidad combinada de 1.240 camas, haciendo enfasis del mejoramiento de la organizaci6n y
utilizaci6n del espacio, asi como el mejoramiento y la calidad del servicio.
2.   Rehabilitaci6n de Ambulatorios y Equipos Basicos: se fmanciaria la rehabilitaci6n fisica de
aproximadamente 427 ambulatorios (107 en Aragua, 90 en Falc6n, 95 en Trujillo y 185 en Zulia), el enfasis
estaria en mejorar la organizaci6n y uso del espacio, asi como la eficiencia y la calidad del servicio. Toda
rehabilitaci6n de ainbulatorios incluira medidas para mejorar el manejo de desechos. Se invertiria en la
adquisici6n de equipos basicos necesarios para completar el equipo disponible en los establecimientos
participantes que hayan sobrepasado su periodo de vida fitil y/o que esten averiados y no tengan reparaci6n. El
equipamiento incluira equipos medicos y no medicos, instrumentos, utensilios y muebles, ambulancias y
vehiculos de doble transmisi6n.
1.2. Componentes modificados
En fecha 13 de Noviembre de 1996, se aplica la primera enmienda al convenio susceptible el 12 de Octubre de
1995, en la cual se establecieron los porcentajes de fmanciamiento y se redujo a cuatro el n(unero de categorias;
obras civiles 60% hasta el 30 de Junio de 1996 a ser fmanciados el 85% por el Banco al 30 de Junio de 1998 y
60% desde el I de Julio de 1998 en adelante. El objetivo de esta enmienda fue el de solventar el deficit
presupuestario del Aporte Local, y es por tal raz6n que se establecieron los porcentajes antes mencionados para
poder ejecutar el Convenio.
En fecha 30 de Noviembre del 2000, el Banco inform6 que fueron aceptados los traslados de categoria solicitados
con el objeto de cubrir los compromisos en las categorias de gastos: Obras Civiles, 60% hasta el 30/06/01, 85%
del 01/07/96 al 30/06/98, 60% de 01/07/98 en adelante; Equipos Medicos, No Medicos y Computaci6n, 100%
Intemacional y 85% Nacional; Consultoria y Capacitaci6n 100%.
La fecha de cierre del Programa estaba pautada para el 30 de junio del aflo 2000, la cual fue prorrogada para el
30 de Junio del 2001 y una segunda solicitud de prorroga de cierre para el 30 de Junio de 2002. Esto origino un
nuevo traslado entre las categorias a ser financiadas por el prestamo: Obras Civiles $ 23.800.000,00, Bienes $
13.600.000,00 y Servicios de Consultarias $ 16.600.000,00 el cual se produjo el 6 de diciembre de 2001.
- 35 -



13. Calidad al inicio del proyecto
Es de hacer notar que para el momento en el cual se formulo el SAR (Banco Mundial; SAR,1994, pagina 16),
fueron previstos como riesgos que: (a) La descentralizaci6n del sector salud disminuyera o se estancara por falta
de fmanciamiento, por beneficios sociales acumulados para el personal y por la oposici6n de politicos centralistas
o grupos que tienen interes en mantener el "Status quo"; en tal sentido, el Gobiemo se comprometi6 en
minimizarlo, trabajando con un pequeflo grupo de estados que liderizen el proceso de descentralizaci6n e
insistiendo en un programa para transferir a los estados la autoridad para la toma de decisiones y los recursos
presupuestarios, como una condici6n pam el desembolso del componente rehabilitaci6n y equipos basicos; (b) La
capacidad d6bil del sector puiblico a nivel central y estadal retrasaria la ejecuci6n del Proyecto. Para solucionar
este problema, el Gobiemo concentraria las actividades en un grupo de estados que tengan el mayor apoyo
politico para la descentralizaci6n y entrenamiento del personal para asumir altos niveles de responsabilidad.
No se consider6 como riesgo las dificultades para garantizar la asignaci6n presupuestaria y, por tanto los
desembolsos de manera oportuna. Esto muy a pesar de haber tenido como experiencia previa circunstancias
similares que afectaron la ejecuci6n del PDS Y el Proyecto Control de Enfermedades Endemicas (P.C.E.E.).
El proceso de negociaci6n del proyecto fue extenso y resulto complicado por las dificultades del gobierno para
tomar decisiones en cuanto a la firma del convenio.
2. LOGROS DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y PRODUCTOS DEL PROYECTO
2.1. Resultados/Logro de los objetivos
2.1.1 Componente A: Analisis y Reforma de Politicas
En Venezuela, a partir de la decada de los ochenta, el sector salud comienza a experimentar los embates de los
desequilibrios en el crecimiento econ6mico, lo cual se tradujo en la disminuci6n del gasto puTblico en salud, siendo
que a finales de los setenta este representaba el 20,6% del presupuesto nacional, para caer a cifras del 8,9% en el
anlo de 1995. El desfmanciamniento del sector significo su desmantelamiento en terminos de la infraestructura
fisica, equipamniento, dotaci6n de materiales, con lo que se comprometi6 los procesos productivos y la calidad a
nivel de los servicios de salud.
CONSULTORIAS CONTRATADAS DE POLiTICA Y REFORMA
A continuaci6n presentamos un bosquejo de cada una de las consultorias desarrolladas por el componente, a
saber:
1. Estudio de Autonomia de Gesti6n de los Servicios y Sistemas de Salud.
2. Racionalizaci6n de los Modelos de Prestaci6n de Servicios.
3. Focalizaci6n de la Inversi6n Puiblica en Salud a Nivel Nacional e Implementaci6n del Programa de Atenci6n
Integral a la Salud (PAIS).
4. Estudio del Disefno de Mecanismos de Asignaci6n de Recursos Financieros al Interior del Sistema de Salud.
5. Definici6n de un Sistema de Costos y Tarifas para los Servicios de Salud.
6. Disenlo de un Sistema de Compromisos de Desempefno para la Gesti6n coordinada entre los Niveles Central y
Descentralizados del Sector Salud en Venezuela.
7. Disefno de un Sistema de Medici6n y Evaluaci6n de los Impactos del Proyecto Salud y sus dos Programas
"Reforma de los Servicios de Salud" (BM) y "Fortalecimiento y Modernizaci6n del Sector Salud" (BID).
Implantaci6n en los Estados Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo y Zulia.
8. Gerencia Estrategica de Imagen.
9. Otras Iniciativas de Politicas.
EVALUACION DEL COMPONENTE
En virtud del desenvolvimiento t6rpido de las consultorias contratadas por el Proyecto Salud para dar respuesta
al componente de Poiftica y Reforma, intentaremos colocar en el l6xico del campo de la evaluaci6n, lo que ha
- 36 -



acontecido con las mismas. Estos estudios tuvieron su mxiima meseta productiva durante el ailo de 1998, periodo
ya resefiado anteriormente. Evaluamnos los estudios en funci6n de cuatro (4) dimensiones, a saber: apropiaci6n
Grado de pertenencia de dominio que coexiste entre las entidades federales y la consultoria , adecuaci6n Grado
de concordancia entre los productos presentados por las firmas consultoras y los objetivos trazados en los TDRs.,
ejecuci6n Grado de cumplimiento con los productos formulados en los TDRs, expresado en unidades de tiempo. e
implantaci6n Grado de operacionalizaci6n o puesta en practica de los productos presentados por las empresas
consultoras..
Podemos mencionar que ninguna de las entidades federales asumi6 como propios estos estudios y pudieramos
entrar en el campo de lo especulativo, y decir:
1. Que fueron estudios contratados por el nivel central sin la participaci6n de los estados.
2. Que el nivel central ante su dispersi6n de ideas y de actividades abandon6 su papel rector y ductor en materia
de politicas de salud, perdiendo legitimidad en su nivel de interlocuci6n con los estados. No hubo una adecuada
estrategia de mercadeo y comunicaci6n con relaci6n al porque y para que de estas consultorias.
Con respecto a la adecuaci6n hubo una actitud de rezago y omisi6n de opiniones y de pareceres tecnicos en
respuesta a los productos presentados. Ese diferir de opiniones relativas al contenido de los productos provoc6 un
vacio comunicacional con las firmas consultoras con las consecuentes implicaciones en la calidad de los mismos.
Algunas de las consultorias realizadas presentan serias debilidades y carecen de rigor metodol6gico. Uno de los
reclamos de las empresas proveedoras de estos servicios fue la escasa comunicaci6n y la ausencia de
interlocutores validos por parte del Ministerio.
En cuanto a la ejecuci6n de las diferentes consultorias, hubo dilaci6n considerable en la recepci6n de algunos
productos. Particular atenci6n merece el estudio de costos y tarifas, que fue dado por concluido por la firma
consultora con diez meses de anticipaci6n a la fecha estimada de culminaci6n.
En relaci6n a la imnplantaci6n ninguno de los estudios realiz6 las experiencias piloto en toda su extensi6n en las
entidades federales coejecutoras (Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo y Zulia) del prestamo ni en el nivel central.
Desde el punto de vista cuantitativo, podemos mencionar que en solo cuatro (4) de las consultorias contratadas
fueron presentados los productos reseffados en las propuestas tecnicas, es de hacer notar que el nivel de
cumplimiento del subcomponente relativo a costos y tarifas tan solo fue de 55%, en cuanto que el de
compromisos de desempeflo fue de 67%. Ello puede evidenciarse en la tabla que se muestra a continuaci6n.
2.1.2 Componente B: Desarrollo institucional
Desde el inicio de las actividades del Proyecto Reforma de los Servicios Estatales de Salud, el Componente de
Descentralizaci6n y Desarrollo Institucional se plante6 apoyar la estrategia de descentralizaci6n de los servicios
de salud del Gobiemo Central a las gobernaciones de los estados: Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo y Zulia, se puede
decir que este objetivo establecido en el convenio de prestamo coincidi6 con los desarrollados en los Estados
coejecutores, manteniendose la claridad del mismo en los procesos ejecutados.
Este Componente fue desarrollado a traves de los siguientes subcomponentes:
2.1.2a Programa de Entrenamiento Gerencial: Se capacitaron en este subcomponente a diecisiete mil
seiscientos cincuenta y tres (17.653) trabajadores del sector salud de los Estados Aragua, Falc6n y Trujillo de
los diecisiete mil quinientos siete (17.507) programados en los planes operativos y se ejecutaron novecientos
sesenta y un (961) cursos de los ochocientos ochenta y uno (881) programados. De acuerdo a esto las metas
fueron superadas en mas de un cien por ciento (100%) a pesar de las deficiencias para la ejecuci6n, ya que las
- 37 -



mismas no se dieron en los tiempos establecidos. De acuerdo a los logros obtenidos en este subcomponente, se
puede calificar el producto como Satisfactorio ya que el proyecto alcanz6 y en algunos casos sobrepas6 las
metas establecidas en cada una de las actividades establecidas en el convenio de prestamo, quedando un potencial
de recursos humanos formado que permitiran impulsar la reforma del sector salud.
2.1.2b Sistemas de Gerencia: En lineas generales la ejecuci6n de este subcomponente se puede catalogar como
Insatisfactoria ya que no se alcanzaron la mayoria de los objetivos establecidos en el Convenio de Prestamo y lo
muy poco desarrollado presenta deficiencias considerables por lo que no se pueden catalogar como objetivos
logrados.
2.1.2c Fondo de Apoyo al Desarrollo Institucional: Los recursos fmancieros previstos en este subcomponente
se dirigen a apoyar las acciones especificas e iniciativas de desarrollo en el sector salud en cada Estado. El
Convenio de Prestamo contempl6 dentro de estas actividades la coordinaci6n de las Direcciones Regionales de
Salud de los Estados Coejecutores con el Instituto Venezolano del Seguro Social y otros Organismos prestatarios
de servicios de salud. Se estipulaba el inicio de las acciones en este subcomponente en el afno 1998 y solamnente se
tenia previsto en el afno 1997 y 1998 el mapa social de los Distritos de Salud.
De acuerdo a los logros obtenidos en este subcomponente se puede catalogar como Insatisfactorio ya que no se
alcanz6 ninguno de los objetivos establecidos en el Convenio de Prdstamo.
2.13 Componente C: Fortalecimiento de la Prestaci6n de Servicios de Salud
El desarrollo del componente se plante6 ejecutarse a trav6s de los siguientes sub-componentes:
2.13a Rehabilitaci6n Fisica de Hospitales y Equipos Biasicos
2.13.a.1 Rehabilitacion Fisica de Hospitales: El proyecto contempl6 apoyar la rehabilitaci6n fisica de cuatro
(4) hospitales para una capacidad combinada de 1.240 camas/1.000 habitantes. El enfasis estaria direccionado en
mejorar la organizaci6n y el uso del espacio fisico e incrementar la eficiencia y la calidad de los servicios
prestados. Se parti6 de la premisa que las decisiones de la rehabilitaci6n fisica y equipamiento estarian
sustentadas en los estandares de acreditaci6n del Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social (MSAS) actualmente
Ministerio de Salud y Desarrollo Social (MSDS). En el ambito de la rehabilitaci6n fisica se daria prioridad: a
aquellas areas que significarian una amenaza para la salud o la seguridad, o que provocarian cuello de botella
para los trabajadores y pacientes. En cuanto al equipamiento se daria primacia al reemplazamiento de equipos
basicos que hubiesen cumplido su vida uitil o que estuviesen deteriorados y no pudiesen ser reparados.
El estado Aragua dio inicio a los procesos de procura en 1.997 y concretando la firma de los contratos en el 98
del Hospital de Cagua y Hospital Villa de Cura. En el primero de ellos se procedi6 a una rescisi6n del contrato
motivado a que los productos no cumplieron con las condiciones de satisfacci6n estipuladas en los terminos de
referencia. El proyecto del Hospital de Villa de Cura contemplaba la remodelaci6n de la instituci6n en su
totalidad y la ampliaci6n de dos m6dulos (emergencia y Suite quiruirgicas); siendo que solo ha sido fmalizado el
proyecto de ampliaci6n. En la actualidad el contrato fue cerrado en el mes de mayo del presente aiio. La obra en
referencia sera culminada con recursos locales. El estado Falc6n decidi6 como politica rehabilitar el Hospital
General Alfredo Van Grieken con recursos locales, haciendo dnfasis en la ampliaci6n del Centro Cardiovascular
y Cirugia Intervencionista.
En el estado Trujillo fue pautado la consultoria de proyectos en el anlo 1.997 para los hospitales: Jos6 Gregorio
Hernandez y Jose Vasallo Cortes, contractualmente se inicia en el afio 1.998. Las empresas consultoras
(COINVSA y CONSTRUIlNCA) a quienes le fue adjudicado la elaboraci6n de los proyectos incumpliendo
- 38 -



tecnicamente y temporalmente con la presentaci6n de los productos. Se procedi6 juridicamente a la rescisi6n de
los Contratos de estas consultorias.
El estado Zulia inici6 su proceso de rehabilitaci6n con el Hospital General del Sur arrancando sus obras en el mes
de noviembre de 2.000; habiendose ya cerrado administrativainente el contrato para la fecha, pero la obra no
pudo ser concluida en un 100% debido a la aparici6n de dafno ocultos lo que gener6 obras extras y adicionales,
asi como aumentos en cantidades de obras original, disminuyendo la meta fisica para cubrir con estas
variaciones, quedando por ejecutar la rehabilitaci6n Fisica de los pisos 1 y 3, y parte del servicio de diabetes. En
el 2.001 se dio inicio a los tramites administrativos del Hospital Isla de Toas, adjudicandose en Enero de 2.002; y
se estima terminar su ejecuci6n en junio del presente affo con recursos locales.
2.1.3.a.2 Equipamiento de Hospitales: En lo que respecta al equipamiento de hospitales es para los afios de
1.996 y 1.997 donde los estados coejecutores dedicaron gran parte de su tiempo a la determinaci6n de las
necesidades en materia de ingenieria y hoteleria clinica, asi como, a la realizaci6n del diagn6stico del estado de
obsolescencia y deterioro de los equipos, la planificaci6n y definici6n de las necesidades de los mismos en el
anmbito hospitalario. Concluida esta fase, se dio inicio en el afno 1.998 a los procesos de adquisici6n de los bienes
(equipos medicos y no medicos).
El estado Aragua comenz6 en el aflo 2.000 su proceso de procura con el Hospital Tipo I Rafael Rangel ubicado
en Villa de Cura, siendo que la banca otorga la no objeci6n para el proceso licitatorio relativo a la adquisici6n de
bienes de equipos medicos y no medicos en el affo 2.001, es importante resaltar que la dotaci6n contempla todo
el Hospital existente y la ampliaci6n que consta de los m6dulos I y II ( Emergencia y las Suites Obstetrica y
Quirurgica respectivamente ).
En el anlo 1.998 el estado Falc6n inici6 la licitaci6n de equipos medicos basicos para el Hospital General Carlos
Diez del Ciervo, el cual fue equipado en el aflo 2000.
Para el ano 1999 la Unidad Ejecutora Proyecto Salud (UEPS) y la Unidad Coordinadora Proyecto Salud (UCPS)
dan inicio a la elaboraci6n de especificaciones tecnicas para la adquisici6n de equipos de bienes de ingenieria
clinicas para el servicio de cardiologia y cirugia intervensionista, suites quirurgica y cuidados intensivos
coronarios para el Hospital Tipo IV Alfredo Van Grieken, ubicado en Coro, esta adquisici6n era fundamental, ya
que los indicadores de marzo de mortalidad por enfermedades cardiovasculares es la primera causa de muerte en
el estado Falc6n. El banco se.
pronunci6 para el aflo 2.000 con la no objeci6n al mismo. En el 2.001 se otorg6 la adjudicaci6n a diversas
empresas ganadoras.
2.1.3.b Rehabifitaci6n Fisica de Ambulatorios y Equipos Basicos
2.1.3.b.1 Rehabilitaci6n Fisica de Ambulatorios: El proyecto prograrn6 de acuerdo con lo establecido en el
SAR, financiar la rehabilitaci6n fisica de 427 ambulatorios distribuidos de la siguiente manera: 107 en Aragua,
90 en Falc6n, 95 en Trujillo y 135 en el Zulia. El principal objetivo fue la intervenci6n de la infraestructura
fisica y la dotaci6n de
equipos mddicos y no medicos para la red primaria de atenci6n. El enfasis estaba dirigido a mejorar la
organizaci6n y el uso del espacio, a fm de incrementar la calidad y eficiencia de los servicios ofertados.
Es tado Aragua
De acuerdo a las metas iniciales de equipamiento para 107 ambulatorios previstos a ser rehabilitados durante los
cinco afios de inversi6n, s6lo se rehabilitaron 35 ambulatorios; con una efectividad del 33% de lo prograrnado.
Estado Falcdn
De acuerdo a las metas programadas de rehabilitaci6n se previ6 90 ainbulatorios durante los cinco afios de
inversi6n, s6lo se rehabilitaron 24 ambulatorios; con una efectividad del 28% de lo programado.
Estado Trujillo
- 39 -



De acuerdo a las metas establecidas de rehabilitaci6n para 95 ambulatorios previstos a ser dotados durante los
cinco anlos de inversi6n, s6lo se rehabilitaron 52 ambulatorios; con una efectividad del 55% de lo programado.
Estado Zulia
De acuerdo a las metas establecidas de rehabilitaci6n para 135 ambulatorios previstos a ser dotados durante los
cinco anlos de inversi6n, s6lo se rehabilitaron 51 amnbulatorios; con una efectividad del 38% de lo programado.
2.1.3.b.2 Equipamiento de Ambulatorios
Estado Aragua
De acuerdo a las metas iniciales de equipamiento para 107 ambulatorios previstos a ser dotados durante los cinco
affos de inversi6n, solo se equiparon 39 ambulatorios y los 20 nuicleos de Atenci6n Primaria no previstos en los
planes del convenio de pr6stamo y aprobados posteriormente por el banco, se lograron equipar 59
establecimientos; con una efectividad del 55.14% de lo programado.
Estado Falc6n
De acuerdo a las metas programadas de equipamniento para 90 ambulatorios previstos a ser dotados durante los
cinco afnos de inversi6n, solo se equiparon 26 ambulatorios y 8 establecimientos no previstos en los planes del
convenio de prestamo, se lograron equipar 34 establecimientos; con una efectividad del 37.78% de lo
programado.
Estado Trujillo
De acuerdo a las metas establecidas de equipamniento para 95 ambulatorios previstos a ser dotados durante los
cinco afios de inversi6n, solo se equiparon 57 ambulatorios y 4 establecimientos no previstos en los planes del
convenio de prestamo, se lograron equipar 61 establecimientos; con una efectividad del 64.21% de lo
programado.
Estado Zulia
En el affo 1998, el estado Zulia inici6 el proceso de licitaci6n para la adquisici6n de bienes de
ingenieria y hoteleria clinica para 4 ambulatorios a ser rehabilitados por el Proyecto Salud en el plan operativo
anual. El proceso fue realizado en cuatro licitaciones puiblicas tal como lo indica la tabla 58.
2.1.4 Efecto de Desarrollo Institucional
3. FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA EJECUCI6N DEL PROYECTO
Algunos de los elementos causales que alteraron la ejecuci6n de los objetivos inicialmente planteados a seguir se
detallan a continuaci6n:
1. La ausencia de Politicas de salud en las etapas iniciales de la concepci6n del proyecto.
2. La poca legitimidad e incapacidad rectora del Ministerio.
3. La escasa implicaci6n de todas las partes interesadas (decidores de los diferentes niveles de gobiemo y
profesionales y tecnicos adscritos al area de la salud) en la formulaci6n de los estudios de politica financiera y
organizativos, genero resistencia y renuencia a su aceptaci6n. Estas consultorias fueron percibidas como un acto
impositivo de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto Salud (UCPS) y del nivel central del Ministerio.
4. La desalineaci6n del capital humano del sector con la visi6n del sistema que se deseaba. La imagen objetivo no
fue intensamente difundida y divulgada.
5. La carencia de estrategias de comunicaci6n que sensibilizaran a los diferentes actores a sumarse al proceso de
reforma.
6. La total incomprensi6n de los t6cnicos del nivel central y estadal de la raz6n de ser de estas consultorias y de
sus implicaciones para la transformaci6n del sistema de salud venezolano. Estos estudios suscitaron una serie de
temores en lo que respecta a las cuotas de poder prevalecientes.
7. La ausencia del compromiso y voluntad politica de la alta cupula ministerial y estadal para poner en ejecutese
las consultorias contratadas.
8. La falta de apropiaci6n de las contrapartes tecnicas en lo relativo al acompafarniento, seguimiento y
evaluaci6n de los productos presentados.
-40 -



9. La aplicaci6n de metodologias (propuestas por una de las firmas consultoras del componente Politica y
Reforma) inadecuadas al modo organizativo del sector, impidi6 la puesta en practica de los procesos por ella
sugeridos.
10. El fraccionamiento de los estudios de politica financiera condujo a profundas incoherencias entre los
productos presentados. En algunos de ellos las propuestas se superponian y en otros se requerian insumos para
dar continuidad a lo disefiado. No hubo forma de amalgamar o de conformar equipo entre las firmas consultoras
para Ilevar a feliz termino lo planteado.
11. La inexistencia de un marco juridico que diera soporte al proceso de reforma.
12. La alta rotatividad de los cuerpos gerenciales en la Unidad Coordinadora y en las Unidades Ejecutoras, causo
dilaci6n en los avances de las acciones del Proyecto.
13. El desconocimiento de los consultores extranjeros de la realidad nacional.
14. La desviaci6n de los objetivos del Proyecto en funci6n del surgimiento de nuevas prioridades.
15. La coexistencia de diferentes etapas en el proceso de descentralizaci6n en las entidades federales
seleccionadas dificult6 la ejecuci6n del Programa de Reforma de los Servicios de Salud.
16. Fallas de coordinaci6n y comunicaci6n de las Unidades Ejecutoras de Proyecto Salud (UEPS) con la UCPS
y viceversa, produciendose tardiamente la inforrnaci6n necesaria para la toma de decisiones, y en consecuencia
que no se cumplieran los objetivos en, los tiempos previstos.
17. Los procesos de obtenci6n de No Objeci6n con la UCPS y el Banco Mundial fueron muy extensos y lentos
generandose un marcado retraso en la ejecuci6n de los componentes.
18. Carencia de un plan permanente de Asesoria y Asistencia Tecnica a los Estados coejecutores por parte de la
UCPS, lo que gener6 que las Unidades Ejecutoras del Proyecto tomaran acciones directas, violentando los
canales regulares y obviando las lineas de mando
19. La inexistencia de un sistema de Seguimiento y Control, que permitiera evaluar continuamente con estandares
de calidad y facilitara identificar las fortalezas y debilidades de los recursos asignados y la ejecuci6n de los
componentes y los Planes de Inversi6n, que se traduce en incumplimiento de metas y objetivos.
20. Gerencia ddbil para la toma de decisiones a nivel central (Rectoria del Ministerio de Salud y Desarrollo
Social) y Regional (Directores Regionales de Salud, Gobemadores y Coordinadores de UEPS) .
21. Fallas en la organizaci6n y planificaci6n de los procesos.
22. Desfase entre lo planificado y lo ejecutado.
23. Criterios no unificados para la elaboraci6n de los terminos de referencia, lo que gener6 retardos significativos
de los tiempos.
24. La poca claridad en el lenguaje utilizado para producir la informaci6n acerca de los procedimientos
administrativos y los procesos planificados y en desarrollo.
25. La ausencia en la UCPS y las UEPS de manuales de organizaci6n, politicas, normas y procedimientos
gener6 la actuaci6n en muchos de los casos en base a criterios particulares y subjetivos lo cual produjo un
retraso en el desarrollo de los procesos, errores/omisiones, imprecisiones en la ejecucion e inadecuado flujo de
trabajo.
26. Procesos de Procura muy lento, con un alto grado de complejidad, afectando significativamente la ejecuci6n
de los procesos.
27. La no asignaci6n del recurso de la contrapartida local estadal en el tiempo estimado.
4. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO Y DEL PAIS
4.1 El Banco
La estrategia del Banco que enmarc6 la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, fue estimular al Gobierno a seguir las politicas
fiscales y monetarias, asi como tarnbien continuar los esfuerzos de privatizaci6n, reestructuraci6n y
desregulaci6n. En el ambito social, las politicas fueron apoyar al Gobierno en la protecci6n de los sectores
pobres, previendo los efectos del programa de ajuste estructural iniciado en el afno 1989. Igualmente, buscaba una
mayor eficiencia y equidad de los programas, tomando en cuenta el deterioro de areas como programas sociales,
gerencia macro econ6micas y reforma en el sector fmanciero. De esta manera, los objetivos y componentes de
-41 -



Proyecto programa de reforna de los servicios de salud coincidian con la estrategia del Banco.
En general el desempefio del Banco fue Insatisfaictorio, sin embargo se tienen algunas reflexiones al respecto
como:
1. Por parte de la Banca Multilateral su actitud fue de extrema indulgencia con respecto a las incoherencias que
mostraban las autoridades del momento, su pronunciamiento no necesariamente implicaba la intrornisi6n en
asuntos de soberania nacional.
2. Hubo poca preocupaci6n y escaso aporte tecnico para la evaluaci6n del desempenlo de las firmas consultoras
que desarrollaron el componente de politica y reforma, siendo que este era uno de los pilares sobre los cuales se
asentaria la reforma.
3. El Banco debi6 prever al inicio del Convenio mecanismos mis agiles y oportunos para los tramites
administrativos de los procesos, a objeto de hacer mis rapida la ejecuci6n.
4. Falt6 mayor seguimniento a los procesos tanto tecnicos como administrativos para la toma de decisiones
oportunas por parte de la Gerencia del Proyecto y los Coordinadores de los Estados.
5. No mantuvo uniformidad en los criterios manejados para algunos procedimientos tecnicos y administrativos.
4.2 El Pais
la estrategia del Gobiemo se fundament6 en la necesidad de efectuar cambios en el fmanciamiento y organizaci6n
de los cuidados de salud, especificamente para los grupos mis vulnerables. A tal efecto, el Gobiemo previ6 tres
lineas estrategicas de acci6n: i) Reestructurar y reducir el ministerio para asumir un rol altamente normativo y de
supervisi6n, ii) Descentralizar la responsabilidad por la gerencia de servicios de salud hacia los estados y iii)
fortalecer la red de referencia-contra referencias entre ambulatorios y hospitales, para ello la Unidad
Coordinadora del proyecto salud desarrollo un instrumento de planificaci6n de redes de establecimientos de salud
(INPLAN), que contempla tres herramientas como: la capacidad instalada tanto del sector publico como privado,
el sistema de referencia y contra referencia y el solape y dispersi6n de los servicios, esto asistido por el sistema de
informaci6n geocodificado y georeferenciado.
En general el desempeffo del Pais fue Insatisfitctorio, sin embargo se tienen algunas reflexiones al respecto como:
1. El fracaso del componente de Politica y Reforma puede ser atribuido al pobre desempefio tanto del Pais como
de la Banca Multilateral. La falta de sincronia entre las autoridades ministeriales de tumo y de la Unidad
Coordinadora del Proyecto y el pugilato que se estableci6 entre ellos, desbord6 los intereses del Ministerio y de la
Repfiblica.
2. Actuaron de modo invidente al desconocer y despreciar los informes improbados emitidos por el cuerpo
tecnico; a pesar de ello, fueron autorizados los desembolsos correspondientes a productos que no reunian las
especificaciones solicitadas.
3. El Pais present6 algunas dificultades por su inexperiencia en los procesos de procura, administraci6n y
desembolso
4. En diversas oportunidades el Pais no aport6 oportunamente los fondos adecuados de contraparte
5. El Pais no realiz6 una selecci6n objetiva de los Gerentes Claves para la gesti6n del proyecto.
6. El Pais no previ6 estructuras de trabajo acordes, no capacit6 adecuadamente al personal y no estableci6
mecanismos de evaluaci6n que orientaran la toma de decisiones.
7. Falt6 mayor seguimiento a los procesos tanto tecnicos como administrativos para la toma de decisiones
oportunas por parte de la Gerencia del Proyecto y los Coordinadores de los Estados.
8. No mantuvo unifornidad en los criterios manejados para algunos procedimientos tecnicos y administrativos.
5. LECCIONES APRENDEDAS
Podemos destacar algunas de las lecciones aprendidas, a saber:
1. La necesidad de dar continuidad a los procesos en la administraci6n piublica, independientemente del matiz de
los actores participantes.
2. La gestaci6n de los procesos tiene que originarse de las necesidades percibidas en los niveles locales y estar en
-42-



concordancia con los lineamientos de las politicas de salud nacional.
3. La urgencia de desarrollar una cultura de seguimiento, evaluaci6n y control con el prop6sito de determinar los
avances y la consecuci6n de objetivos, asi mismo, que nos permnita valorar la gesti6n en termninos de eficiencia y
la efectividad de los logros alcanzados.
4. La participaci6n de las partes interesadas desde la concepci6n del Proyecto es fundamental.
5. La preparaci6n de los diferentes niveles de gobiemo en aspectos tales como la gerencia de los procesos de
cambio.
6. La difusi6n continua y permanente sobre las bondades y beneficios del desarrollo e implementaci6n de los
proyectos.
7. Se debe preparar al personal Gerencial, previo a la ejecuci6n de Proyectos futuros.
8. Tener clarainente establecido los alcances del Proyecto, que estos sean muy puntuales y asi evitar desviaciones
en el mismo por desconocimiento.
9. Estructuraci6n de un equipo Gerencial estable para garantizar un continuo desarrollo del Proyecto.
10. Necesidad de flexibilizar los Administrativos.
11. Necesidad de implementar mecanismos de control de gesti6n pernanente en todas las Unidades Operativas.
12. Se debe estimular la racionalizaci6n y control de los recursos fmancieros, en aras de una mejor eficiencia y de
que estos no sean desvirtuados hacia otros objetivos.
6. COSTO Y FINANCLIMIENTO
Como se puede apreciar en el cuadro de asignaci6n por categorias y costos de fmanciamiento, se puede evidenciar
que se realizaron transferencias de las categorias para cubrir compromisos contraidos. Estas transferencias se
aplicaron de la siguiente manera, para la categoria de obras civiles fueron asignados US$ 3.000.000 de lo no
asignado y la categoria 5, Servicios de Consultoria US$ 1.100.000, quedando en Obras Civiles US$ 21.900.000,
y en Servicios de Consultoria US$ 15.600.000 . Con fecha 6 de diciembre del 2001 se realiz6 una nuevo traslado
con el fm de dar cumplimiento a los compromisos en las diferentes categorias de inversi6n.
7. FORTALEZAS
1. El Proyecto deja como fortalezas la experiencia adquirida por la Gerencia del Ministerio de Salud y
Desarrollo Social, Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto, Direcciones Regionales de Salud y Unidades Ejecutoras de
Proyectos Salud en el manejo de proyectos de esta indole.
2. Se logr6 capacitar al personal adscritos a los distintos niveles del sector salud en areas tematicas gerenciales,
tecnicas y administrativas, las cuales fortalecieron sus competencias laborales e incorporaron muchas otras
vitales para la optimizaci6n de los servicios de salud.
3. Fortalecimiento de la Red Ambulatoria de los estados Aragua, Trujillo, Falc6n y Zulia.
4. Conocimiento de tecnicas y herramientas en los estudios y proyectos del sector salud y en el mantenimiento de
los equipos medicos e infraestructura.
8. SOSTENIBILEDAD
8.1 Criterios para la calificaci6n de la sostenibilidad
La sostenibilidad se refiere a la probabilidad de mantener tanto las intervenciones como los logros alcanzados por
el proyecto en el mediano y largo plazo. Desde este punto de vista, se requiere analizar los factores que podrian
afectar la continuidad de dichas intervenciones, asi como tambien la efectividad de sus resultados .
Dentro de estos factores se consideran: (i) compromiso del gobiemo, (ii) efectividad
institucional/administrativa; (iii) viabilidad econ6mica y tecnica; (iv) incentivos para los participantes para
mantener el proyecto, y (v) expansi6n de las actividades del proyecto o implementaci6n de un proyecto
subsiguiente.
Para el analisis de estos factores se consider6 necesario conocer la opini6n de los principales actores involucrados
en la formulaci6n y ejecuci6n del proyecto (en el pais). A tal efecto se realizaron las entrevistas a los Directores
-43 -



regionales de Salud de cada estado Coejecutor.
8.2 Disposiciones Transitorias para Operaciones Regulares
Se actualizaron los Bienes Nacionales que han participado en el desarrollo de las diversas etapas del proyecto y
se entregaron a los estados para que de manera defmitiva formen parte de su patrimonio.
- 44 -



MAP SECTION






NETHERLANDS ANTILLES
7                     ~~~~~~~                               ~       ~~~680  640  E E U L
'   E/  R) 680 ]                   64r            ~~~~V E N E Z U E L A
120,,                                   A- lsleods'
-           [ess .o~oeo '.l~nd  Oa 0od    HEALTH     SERVICES REFORM          PROJECT
F t .:.r...  Nuev, -_Esparta O
t)^  ;,  <,. t . Falcogri~~  :  Dto.Federal  ; rZ  Margarlta Island       AND
                                                          oj,l:nagast                       Atlantic
\M  S  b       oriuguesau }         ~~~~~~~~~Guarico                         DeltaS                  ca 
r                a  jdenzoateaytacu ro n
-8 | 9 ) Barinase                                                  or a      f u
8"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
>                ~~~~~~~~Apure  )Bol-ivar                             
KILOMETERS,   I lo  I0                      <                                                                  GUYANA
Approximate Scale                     { 
JAW ''~     ;   >    Atlantic .(\, 
A f t~~  '   .        ',             t                        \   ~~~9~ |4              Project States
RICA. tZUELAh .c  <              \    ~~~~~~~~~~Amazonas                           National Capital
.,  XCO O,S1IA    7IA9  '                 />                                                State or Federal Territory Boundaries
ECtA h International Boundaries
.: . t  <               ~~~~~~~COLOMBIA                               Jand the scale is approximate.
. -  X  v              _  *                         _             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Therefore the areas ot the States and
E,RU-t        B R A Z I L    _    -\rFederal Territories are approximate only.
<- ^ x Z 3 \\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The                      bo-7id`OieS,  colors, denominations and   arny   other information
; x"^; t isouvlS   BIL          @               f         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Group, any judgment on the egal stou of ony territory, or any .
dhltCt, ~~~~~~~~~68'                    64                                            60" 









Repoet No.:        25389
Type:    ICR



