Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13474-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
HEALTH SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
NOVEMBER 9, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 3, 1994)
Currency Unit: Bolivar (Bs.)
US$1.00 = Bs.169.57
Bs. 1.00 = US$ 0.006
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND FOREIGN TERMS
asociaci6n de vecinos   neighborhood association
comite' socio-sanitario    community rural ambulatory clinic oversight board
convenios de fideicomiso  trust fund agreements
CORDIPLAN               Ministry of Coordination and Planning
DGSS                    General Sectoral Directorate for Health
DRS                     regional health directorate
FIMA                    Health Infrastructure and Maintenance Foundation
GDP                     gross domestic product
HCM                     Hospitalization, Surgery and Maternity Care insurance policies
IDB                     InterAmerican Development Bank
IPASME                  Institute of Health Care and Social Assistance for Employees
of the Ministry of Education
IVSS                    Venezuelan Social Security Institute
junta socio-hospitalaria   community hospital oversight board
junta socio-sanitaria   community ambulatory clinic oversight board
LODT                    Organic Law for Decentralization and Transfer
LOSNS                   Organic Law for the National Health System



MINDUR                 Ministry of Urban Development
MSAS                   Ministry of Health
NGO                    non-governmental organization
OECD                   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
parroquia              sub-municipal administrative unit
PAHO                   Pan American Health Organization
PCU                    Project Coordination Unit
ROP                    project operating manual
SASIAM                 Autonomous Service for Integrated System of Medical Care
SILOS                  local health systems
situado constitucional    national budget transfer to state
situado municipal      state budget transfer to municipality
UNDP                   United Nations Development Programme






VENEZUELA
HEALTH SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMM'ARY   . .............................. I
I. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY ....... . .   ........................ . 1
A. Background  ............................................. 1
Country Overview  ........................................ . 1
Health Status  ..........................................  . 2
Flnancing of Services  ....................................... . 2
Cost Recovery ........................................... 3
MSAS Spending by Program   ........ . .   ............................ . 3
Private Flnancing . .......................................... 3
Organization of Health Services  .........................  4
The Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MSAS)  .... ....... 4
Service Pyramid   ................................... 5
Decentralization . ................................... 5
B. Issues and Chalenges inlHealth   ...........................  6
Improving the Flnancing of Services  ......................  6
Improving the Organization of Services ...................... . 7
Increasing Hospital Autonomy  ........ . .   .......................... . 9
Building Decentralized Capacity  ........................  10
Enhancing Quality Through Physical Improvements  .... .......  11
C. Government Strategy  . ................................ 12
D. Bank Role and Strategy  ......... . .....................  13
E. Rationale forBank  nvolvement  ........ . .   .......................... . 14
F. Lessons Learned  .........  ................................... 14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Venezuela in June-July, 1994. Mission
members included: Mmes. and Messrs. Karen Cavanaugh (Task Manager, Public Realth Specialist); Robert Hecht
(Principal Economist); Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo (Public Health Physician); Hongyu Yang (Economist); Sergio
Dompieri (Consultant Architect); and Cristian Baeza (Public Health Physician). The report also benefitted from
the contributions of Jost Moscoso (Procurement Coordinator) and Mauricio Mathov (Information Systems
Specialist) and from the document production expertise of Mme. Rosalia Sanchez. Mme. Helen Saxenian and Mr.
Xavier Coil provided the Peer Review. Messrs. Edilberto Segura and Kye Woo Lee are respectively the managing
Department Director and Division Chief.



HI.  TIHE  PROJECT   ...................................................... . 15
A.  Objectives   ...................................................... 1S
B. Area and Poverty Focus  .............                         .      ..... 15
C. Components ... .....................            ...................... 17
Component A: Policy Analysis and Reform ...................... 18
Component B: Institutional Development ....................... 21
Component C: Strengthening of Health Service Delivery ............. 25
m. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ...... 30
A. Project Cost ............................................ 30
Base Costs and Contingencies     ...................        ............ 30
Foreign Exchange Costs  ..    ..................... ........... 30
B. Financing ............................................. 33
Recurrent Costs    ........................................ 34
C.   Procurement ...                       ........                 ....... 34
Civil Works ......................34
Medical and Non-Medical Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles .       ...  35
Computer Hardware, Software and Support ...................... 35
Consulting Services......... 36
Training. ........                                                      36
Margin of Preference .......                 ........... . 36
Procurement Review                          . . . 36
Management of Procurement..... 37
Procurement Agents. ....                       ..........  37
State Procurement .......         .. . .............               ... 38
D. Disbursements           .......................... . 38
Documentation of Expenditures ........................... 39
E. Accounts and Audits ........................... ........ 40
Accounts     .     ..    ...      ........................... 40
Audits ..................................... 40
IV. EMPLEMENTATION   . .................................... 41
Project Coordinating Unit ........... ...................... 41
State Project Teams .................................. 41
Project Committees   ................................. 42
Project Operating Manual .     ................................. 42
Policy Initiatives Fund ......    ............................... 42
Training ...... ................................... 42
Management Systems . .................................... 43
State Support Fund ........................................ 43
Project Reviews      ..................................... 44
Flow of Funds to States . ................................... 44



V. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ........................................ 45
A. Project Benefits            .......................................... 45
B. Project Risks             ........................................... 45
C. Environumental Aspects ..................................... 46
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .....  47
A. Agreements Reached  ..         .    ................................... 47
B. Recommendation ......................................... 49
ANNEXES AND TABLES .......................................... 50
ANNEX I Lessons Learned                              ..                           51
ANNEX I    Characteristics of Health Facilities   ........................ 53
ANNEX m   Project States and Decentralization  ....................... 56
ANNEX IV  Project Objectives and Monitoring ....................... 64
ANNEX V  Training and Lstitutional Development                   .       .         74
ANNEX VI  Rehabilitation and Equipment ..........         ..       .............. 81
ANNEX VU  Detailed Project Costs ............         ..       ................. 82
ANNEX Vm  Key Documents Related to the Project ..................... 95
MAP         IBRD 26401   ..................................... 98
LIST OF ANNEX TABLES
TABLE H. A  Types of Government Heath Facilities ......................... 53
TABLE H. B  Activities in MSAS Health Facilities by Level ..................... 54
TABLE HI.A  General Characteristics of Project States ....................... 58
TABLE I.B  Project States: Urban/Rural Population Mix 1990 .................. 59
TABLE HI.C  Major Epidemiological Indicators Project State (1992) ............... 59
TABLE I.D  MSAS Consultations per capita per year in project states ............. 60
TABLE M.E State Populations by Subdivision ............................ 60
TABLE HI.F  Venezuela AIDS cases by States (6/30/92)  ....................... 60
TABLE M.G  National and State Responsibilities for Health as Indicated in Aragua
Decentralization Agreement                       .. 61
TABLE IV.A  Project Objectives and Activities ............................ .              64
TABLE IV.B  Preliminary Key Project Monitoring Indicators             ...... 68
TABLE IV.C  Preliminary Key Project Evaluation Indicators .................... 70
TABLE IV.D  Project Implementation Schedule  .. .......................... 72
TABLE V. A  Basic Management Training Program Objectives and Contents ...           ...... 74
TABLE V. B  Complementary Management training Program Objectives and Contents ... 76
TABLE V. C  Basic Management Training - Total Activity  ..................... 78
TABLE V. D  Selection Criteria for Participants in the National Training Program   ..... 79
TABLE V. E  Institutional Development Support Fund Fmancing Selection Criteria ..... 80
TABLE VI.A  Bases for Rehabilitation Cost Estimates  . .....................  .. 81
TABLE VI.B  Share of Replacement Cost by Extent of Rehabilitation  .............. 81
TABLE VI.C  Costs Associated with Physical Rehabilitation (As share of
construction Costs) ..    ................................... . 81
TABLE VII.  Series of Detailed Cost Tables by Project Subcomponent .82






VENEZUELA
HEALTH SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
GENERAL COUNTRY DATA                                                                         Reference Year
1. Population Estimate (million)                             20.9                                 1993
2. Area (000 km2)                                             912                                 1990
3. GNP per capita (USS)                                       2,900                               1992
4. GNP per capita Average Growth Rate (X)                     -1.3                               198091
5. Income Share of Poorest 20% (%)                            4.8                                 1989
6. Population Living in Extreme Poverty                       22                                  1989
7. Population Living in Poverty                               31                                  1989
POPULATION DATA
1. Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                               29                                   1991
2. Crude Death Rate (per 1000)                                5                                   1991
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth (X)                       2.6                                1980-91
4. Total Fertility Rate                                       3.7                                 1991
i. Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100.000)                      55                                  1988
6. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000 live births)               34                                  1991
7. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                           70                                  1991
HEALTH DATA
1. Doctors per 1,000 population                               1.6                                1988-91
2. Nurse to Doctor Ratio                                      0.5                                1988-91
3. Public Health Expenditures                                                                     1990
As percent of GDP                             3.6                                  1989
In per capita USS                                         89                                  1989
NUTRITION DATA
1. Daily Calorie Supply                                      2443                                 1990
2. Babies with Low Birth Weight (X)                           9                                   1990
3. Calorie Intake as % of Requirements                        99                                  1990
4. Per Capita Protein Intake (grams/day)                      62                                  1991
5. Index of Food Production per Capita                        99.9                          1991(1987-100)
EDUCATION DATA
1. Adult illiteracy Rate (%)                                  12                                  1990
2. Female Dliteracy Rate (%)                                  10                                  1990
3. Gross Enrollment Ratios:
Primary (% of school-age group)                        99                                   1990
Secondary (% of school-age group)                      35                                   1990
Tertiary (% of school-age group)                       29                                   1990
4. Public Education Expenditures
As % of Total Central Government Budgets       18.8                               1985 moat racenly study
As % of GNP                                   4.1                               1985 most rcently study
Unit Cost per Student (USS)
Primary                                                256                                  1992
Secondary                                              487                                  1992
Higher                                                 2056                                 1992






i
VENEZUELA
HEALTH SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Venezuela.
Executing
Agency:           Ministry of Health (MSAS) and four states (Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo and
Zulia).
Beneficiaries:    3 million users of government health services.
Amount:           US$54 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Project
Objectives:       The proposed Health Services Reform Project aims to improve health
outcomes for the 3 million users of government health services in the
states of Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo and Zulia. Toward this goal, the
project will help the Government to: (a) redefine key government health
policies related to the organization and financing of health services; (b)
promote decentralization by building the capacity of the four states and
their respective health facilities to plan and manage health care in a
decentralized framework; and (c) enhance the quality and efficiency of
government health services by rehabilitating plant and replacing basic
equipment in ambulatory clinics and hospitals. The project also is
expected to contribute to poverty alleviation by improving the access of
poor Venezuelans to good quality health care services.
Project
Description:     The project will be implemented during a five-year period. It responds to
a broadly acknowledged crisis in govemment health services and is based
on a consensus in the health sector that only by strengthening institutions
and introducing reforms will needed improvements in infrastructure and
equipment have a sustainable impact on quality and efficiency. The project
consists of three components: (a) Policy Analysis and Reform; (b)
Institutional Development; and (c) Strengthening of Health Service



ii
Delivery. The Policy Analysis and Reform Component accounts for 5
percent of the base cost (US$4.5 m). Under this component, the project
will support policy reform in the areas of: (a) hospital autonomy; (b)
rationalization of the service delivery model; and (c) improved health
financing.   It will support other policy initiatives, including the
development of a proposal for resolving problems in the delivery of health
services in the capital city of Caracas and an assessment of health
information needs and initiatives in the sector.
The Institutional Development Component (25 percent of the base cost,
US$23.7 m) will build capacity at the state level to manage health care by
providing in-service management training to staff of state health
directorates, district health offices, hospitals and ambulatory clinics; by
developing systems for them to manage finances, human resources,
strategic planning, materials, maintenance, waste and health information;
by providing them with the computer support to carry out these functions;
and by supporting them with studies and technical assistance for specific
institutional development projects they identify.
The Strengthening of Health Service Delivery Component (70 percent
of the base cost, US$66.0 m) will improve the quality and efficiency of
health services in the four states by rehabilitating ambulatory clinics and
hospitals and replacing and completing basic equipment.
Project
Benefits:         The project is expected to contribute to important gains in the health status
of 3 million users of government health services in the four states. The
project also would generate benefits in terms of higher quality and greater
internal efficiency of ambulatory clinic and hospital services.
Improvements would be measured through a limited number of carefully
chosen indicators, including the level of hospital infections, the average
length of patient stay and bed occupancy rates in selected hospitals.
Project benefits are expected to accrue disproportionately to the poor.
They are the most adversely affected by current health service
shortcomings because they have the least ability to seek alternative sources
of care. Finally, Venezuela would benefit from the development of health
policy analysis skills in the Ministry of Health and from increased capacity
to plan and manage health services at the state and district levels. This
capacity-building effort would be measured most directly by monitoring the
training, technical assistance and organizational development activities
under the project.



Project
Risks:            The project faces two principal risks. The first is that the decentralization
of the health sector will slow down or stall because of lack of financing for
accumulated social benefits for staff or opposition from centralist politicians
or groups that have an interest in maintaining the status quo (especially
unions representing public sector physicians and other health workers and
central MSAS officials). This risk would be minimized by working with
a small number of states which are leading the decentralization process,
and by insisting on a timetable for transfer to the states of decision-making
authority and budget resources as a condition of disbursement for the
rehabilitation and basic equipment component. In addition, the project
would allow for substitution of other states if any of the four originally
selected no longer has a reasonable chance of completing the transfer
during the project execution period. The project would also finance a
communications program to inform public opinion and increase support for
sector reform.
The second risk is that weak public sector capacity at central and state
levels will retard project execution. This risk would be mitigated by
focusing activities on a handful of states with the strongest political
backing for decentralization, training staff to assume greater levels of
responsibility, and relying heavily on the private sector for a wide range
of services (architectural, construction, training and management
consulting) under the project.
Program Objective
Categories        Within the broad category of human resource development, the project's
objectives are to promote more effective population, health and nutrition
policies and to reduce poverty.  The operation targets the poor by
strengthening the government health services which the poor use in
disproportionately high numbers and by serving areas of the country where
the incidence of poverty is above average.



iv
Summary of Project Costs by Component
(USS Milion)
% of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total Base
1. Policy Analysis and Reform                    2.6       1.9       4.5        5
2. Institutional Development                    14.7       9.0      23.7       25
3. Strengthening of Health Service Delivery     39.8       26.2     66.0       70
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          57.1       37.1     94.2       100
Physical Contingencies                         4.1        3.1      7.2         8
Price contingencies                            3.9        2.7      6.6         7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              65.1       42.9    108.0"      115
net of taxes
Rnancdng Plan
(USS Million)
% of
Local    Foreign    Total      Total
1. World Bank                                   11.1      42.9      54.0        50
2. Government of Venezuela                      54.0       0.0      54.0       50
TOTAL                                          65.1      42.9    108.0        100
Estimated IBRD Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IBRD FY                    FY95   FY96       FY97      FY98    FY99       FY2000
Annual                        1.5"/   6.2       11.2     15.2     14.3       5.6
Cumulative                    1.5     7.7       18.9     34.1     48.4       54.0
"   The Bank will provide retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million to reimburse the Government for agreed
project expenditures made after July 11, 1994. The Bank will disburse up to US$ 1 million equivalent as an
initial deposit to the Special Account.
Rate of Return: Not applicable



HEALTH SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Background
1.1       Country Overview. Fueled by its abundant petroleum reserves, Venezuela's
society and economy underwent rapid transformation during the post-war period. The
population increased from 4.2 million in 1945 to 20.9 million in 1993 and the urban
population rose from 35 percent to 87 percent of the total. Income per capita also rose,
nearly tripling from about US$1,000 to over US$2,900. Key social indicators such as
illiteracy and infant mortality rate also improved. The illiteracy rate dropped from 49
percent in 1950 to 12 percent in 1990, and infant mortality declined from 65 per
thousand in 1965 to 34 per thousand in 1991.
1.2       These years of apparent prosperity, however, were marked by unsustainable
and inadequate growth patterns. Venezuela's non-petroleum based sectors developed
behind high protective tariffs and restrictions on competition, which left them ill-equipped
to compete extemally or to utilize resources efficiently.
1.3       By the late 1980s, the damage wreaked by decades of economic
mismanagement and overdependence on oil was exposed. By 1988, foreign reserves had
fallen to 2.5 months of imports (the lowest since 1973), inflation was 60 percent and
rising, the fiscal deficit was 9.4 percent of GDP and Venezuela could not service its
external obligations. Living standards plunged. Between 1980 and 1989, real GNP per
capita fell every year, despite comparatively high oil prices until 1985. Throughout the
1980s, the percentage of the population living in absolute poverty increased, from 4
percent in 1980 to 13 percent in 1989 according to a World Bank study.
1.4       Faced with a deteriorating social environment and a destabilized economic
situation, the new Government in 1989 confronted a major challenge--that of undertaking
important economic and social adjustments while protecting the most vulnerable social
groups. It adopted a far-reaching structural reform program and tight monetary and
fiscal policies to stabilize the economy, which have been supported by the Bank's
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3091-VE) and Trade Policy Loan (Loan No.
3092-VE). Key components of the program were: (a) a unified and market-determined
exchange rate regime; (b) reduction of price controls; (c) deregulation of the financial
system; (d) reform of fiscal policies; (e) restructuring and privatization of public
enterprises; and (f) a shift from generalized subsidies to directly targeted and well-
integrated social programs. Supported by a Bank-funded Social Development Project,
Venezuela also undertook in 1990 a plan to help shield the poorer segments of society
from the adverse effects of the reform effort and to overcome past deficiencies in
targeting, coverage, and administration of the social sectors.



2
1.5       The reforms yielded significant results. Major macroeconomic imbalances
were corrected in less than a year and growth resumed soon afterward. Inflation fell
from about 80 percent in the first half of 1989 to 27 percent by December. In 1990-
1992, GDP grew at 8 percent annually. Inflation declined from 36 percent in 1990 to
32 percent in 1992 and reserves increased.
1.6       Beginning in 1992, for lack of a strong constituency, market-oriented reforms
stalled. The military staged two unsuccessful coup attempts, public concerns about
corruption and govemment inefficiency erupted into riots and the legislature faced
gridlock. In 1993, the President was forcibly removed from office on charges of fraud
and corruption. The current government is searching for options to promote growth and
ensure basic services.
1.7       Health Status. Even though Venezuela has made progress in some social
areas, health indicators are lower than would be expected for a country at its level of per
capita income. Although infant mortality rates have fallen substantially since 1965, they
still remain double those of Jamaica and Costa Rica, which have per capita incomes
around half that of Venezuela. Venezuela's child mortality rate (age 0-5) of 43 per 1000
is also relatively high when compared with other middle-income countries. Similarly,
life expectancy (70 years) is comparatively low with respect to other middle-income
countries. The nation's health inputs have generally improved over time. The ratios of
physicians and nurses to inhabitants have increased and growth in hospitals and hospital
beds has kept pace with the population.
1.8       Like many other developing countries, Venezuela is undergoing an
epidemiological transition. Traditional childhood diseases such as diarrhea, measles,
pneumonia and malnutrition continue to be significant causes of death. At the same time,
malignant cancers, heart disease, and injuries have become the leading causes of death
in recent years. Another significant trend is the increasing transmission of certain
endemic diseases associated with poverty, such as malaria, dengue, and cholera. The
health system is therefore increasingly stressed as it attempts to cope with a growing
range of problems both old and new.
1.9       Flnancing of Services. MSAS spending on health declined sharply in real
terms during the 1980s. In 1983, it amounted to about US$133 per capita; by 1988, it
had fallen to just US$55, and remained at this level through 1990. In 1992, spending
through the MSAS budget rose somewhat to about US$64 per capita, before falling back
to US$50 in 1993. This spending is equivalent to about 1.2 percent of GDP, a relatively
low level in comparison with other Latin American countries at Venezuela's stage of
development.
1.10      When MSAS spending is combined with other public sources, public
expenditures for health look somewhat more robust, although still low in comparison



3
with other countries in the region. The total budgeted figure for 1994 is US$1.85 billion
or US$97 per capita. About 55 percent of this amount (or US$54 per capita) is through
MSAS an its "associated organs"; among the latter, nutrition and food distribution
programs absorb nearly a fifth of the MSAS budget and the agency responsible for health
infrastructure construction and maintenance (FIMA) uses another 8 percent.
1.11      Public financing for health emanates primarily from the federal level. In
1990, federal spending accounted for 97 percent of total public expenditures for health.
Because the federal budget is highly dependent on oil revenues, MSAS spending has been
quite unstable from year to year, and suffered steep declines in real terms over the
1980s. Because of their limited tax authority, states have been almost completely
dependent on transfers from the federal government for state revenues. However,
federal-state and state-municipal transfers are increasing in accordance with the
Decentralization Law (discussed below) and states are receiving greater local taxation
authority. According to the 1994 budget, states are to spend about US$197 million or
11 percent of total budget outlays for health, compared with just 3 percent in 1990.
1.12      Cost Recovery. Although cost recovery is not common practice in the
public sector, some MSAS hospitals have organized foundations to receive donations and
recover a small fraction of costs from patients. Cost recovery is set up so that 95
percent of the money collected remains at the hospital level. No standardized charges
or guidelines exist across hospitals. Many hospitals do not charge fees because they do
not have trained staff or accounting systems in place to support cost recovery. No
estimate is available of what share of costs, in the aggregate, MSAS hospitals recover
from patients through user charges. It is no doubt very low (under 3 percent of
revenues) since many hospitals recover nothing and those that do charge nominal fees.
Nonetheless, hospitals with cost recovery consider these revenues as an important source
of funds because they add to the small discretionary budget.
1.13      MSAS Spending by Program. Spending by MSAS program over time is
difficult to assess because of the significant level of expenditures not disaggregated by
program. Given the level of disaggregation of program data, spending on the largest
program (health services) fell by 50 percent in real terms from 1980 to 1990. Among
smaller programs the fall in expenditures on endemic diseases and rural sanitation of
about 63 percent from 1980 to 1990 is striking, especially given the increase in incidence
of malaria over the period. Important and highly cost-effective interventions, including
endemic disease control, immunization, and maternal-child health, apparently have
suffered severe budgetary cutbacks over the past ten years.
1.14      Private Filnancing. Information on private sector financing and provision
of health care is incomplete. In general, higher income groups are served by the private
sector. The income elasticity of demand for health care is greater than one, and higher
income consumers demand more services as well as higher quality care. But all



4
households probably make some use of the private sector. Pharmaceutical expenditures
are frequently a significant proportion of low income families' budgets.
1.15      The private health insurance industry has grown rapidly over the 1980s, and
competition in supply seems robust. Statistics on numbers covered by private health
insurance policies are unavailable, but data on total spending on insurance premiums
show an increase from US$97 to US$164 million from 1984 to 1989 (1990 constant
US$). Health insurance policies are known as Hospitalizaci6n, Cirug(a y Maternidad
(HCM) policies because they cover hospitalization, surgery and maternity care. These
policies have been in existence for about 25 years. In 1989, about 36 firms offered
individual policies and 41 companies offered group policies.  In addition to
hospitalization, some policies also cover outpatient visits. Usually the insured individual
pays a portion (a co-payment) for the service provided, and deductibles are often
imposed. In order to contain costs, insurance companies also set reimbursement limits.
1.16      Organization of Health Services. The most important public health
institutions in Venezuela in terms of coverage are the Ministry of Health and Social
Assistance (MSAS) and the Venezuelan Social Security Institute (IVSS). MSAS is
financed from the central government budget and theoretically serves the entire
population. IVSS, which covers about 25 percent of the population, is financed through
payroll taxes and federal and employer contributions.  MSAS is responsible for
epidemiological surveillance, public health campaigns, food and drug regulation, and
health service delivery. It operates 176 hospitals, accounting for around 56 percent of
the country's bed capacity, and 3,679 ambulatory clinics. The IVSS runs 31 hospitals
(12 per cent of hospital beds) and 71 health centers.  MSAS and IVSS together
administer about 73 percent of total public health expenditures.
1.17      The relatively small private sector accounts for about 23 percent of all
hospital beds and probably provides medical care to between 10 and 20 percent of the
population. MSAS and IVSS contract out very few medical services through the private
sector.  The private health insurance sector has been growing rapidly.  Health
maintenance organizations are currently prohibited under the terms of existing legislation.
1.18      The Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (MSAS). MSAS has three
major institutional components: (i) the General Sectoral Directorate for Health (DGSS)
which coordinates general health services, including the primary health care system; (ii)
the four areas (Central, Center-West, West, and East) which are comprised of the 23
regional health directorates (corresponding to the states) and which are further divided
into 127 health districts; and (iii) the General Sectoral Directorate for Environmental
Sanitation, which is responsible for the control of endemic diseases including malaria,
dengue and dengue hemorrhagic fever, Chagas disease, schistosomiasis and other
intestinal parasites, yellow fever and cholera, among others.



5
1.19       Service Pyramid. The 1987 Organic Law for the National Health System
(Ley Orgdnica del Sistema Nacional de Salud) defines three levels of health care of
increasing complexity. Facilities are organized according to this structure and linked
through a referral system. In practice, as explained in paragraph 1.33 below, the referral
system does not function exactly as intended. According to the health system law, the
first level, primary health care, has a preventive, curative, and promotional role. This
includes all rural ambulatory clinics and Type I urban ambulatory clinics (ARI, ARII,
AUI). This level should be the entry point to the health system. It focuses on the
community and serves a population of 10,000.
1.20       The secondary level should provide specialized care. It is comprised of
urban ambulatory clinics II and III (AUII, AUIII), and is the first referral level. This
level should provide basic diagnostic as well as preventive services. Its role is mainly
curative.
1.21       The tertiary level is that of hospitalization, which is made up of hospitals
Type I through IV, and provides mainly curative care. This level should care for
patients referred from the primary or secondary levels. In emergency cases, it can also
be the entry point to the system.
1.22       First level facilities are assigned specific urban ambulatory clinics to which
to refer patients. Health districts refer patients to a pre-determined general hospital.
Hospitals refer to assigned national hospitals. Hospital beds are concentrated in the
resource-intensive Type III and Type IV hospitals: 30 percent of all MSAS beds are in
Type III hospitals and 37 percent in Type IV hospitals. For a detailed description of the
health services delivered at each level, see Annex II.
1.23       Decentralization. The Ministry of Health carries out its functions in a highly
centralized manner. This centralization creates inefficiency by impeding flexibility in
resource allocations at the local level.  Health services, endemic disease control,
construction and rehabilitation of facilities, and procurement and maintenance of
equipment are centrally managed. Most categories of expenditure in the Ministry budget
are controlled in Caracas. The central Ministry manages the payroll and personnel
functions for employees nationwide. A decentralization initiative is underway which
would transfer to the states the resources and authority to manage health services. The
effective implementation of the transfer as now agreed with several states, depends in
large part on the ability of the central government to provide for the accumulated social
benefits for all active personnel. If the central government can strike agreements on
different terms with remaining states, the transfer may depend less on the availability of
resources to finance accumulated social benefits in the future.
1.24       In 1989, governors and mayors were directly elected for the first time in the
democracy. Under the Decentralization and Transfer Law (LODT) enacted in 1990,
governors are empowered to request the transfer of personnel, budgetary resources and



6
physical assets from the central govemment, in order to assume responsibility for public
services. To enable states to finance increased responsibilities at the local level, the
Decentralization Law mandates an increase in central government transfers to the states
of one percent of ordinary revenues per year for five years, from the 1989 situado
constitucional of 15 percent to 20 percent by 1995. In addition, the law grants state
governments limited authority to mobilize local tax revenues. States in turn make a
transfer payment, called the situado municipal, to municipalities. This is increasing
steadily and will reach 20 percent of the situado constitucional by 1999. Thus far the
increases in revenues to the states and municipalities have not been accompanied by a
commensurate increase in expenditure responsibilities.
1.25       To date, five states have signed decentralization agreements for the transfer
of responsibilities for the health sector -- Anzoategui, Aragua, Bolivar, Carabobo, and
Falc6n. According to the terms of these agreements, the central government is to
provide annual transfers to states on the basis of prior year budgets, adjusted to account
for changes in national revenues. The agreement provides for a review of these resource
allocation procedures to incorporate methodologies and criteria which would link
resource transfers more directly to the requirements of the services transferred. A high-
level commission was established to supervise the process and resolve disputes associated
with the agreement. The commission includes two representatives each from the state
and MSAS and one from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The initial budget transfer to
the five decentralized states is expected to take place during the last quarter of 1994.
B. Issues and Challenges in Health
1.26      Improving the Filnancing of Services. The current system for public sector
budgeting and for paying health care providers does not encourage good allocation of
resources or improved intemal efficiency in the delivery of services. Hospitals and
clinics receive budgets based on previous year expenditures rather than on their
performance in terms of volume or quality of services or impact on health status.
Mechanisms such as capitation (a fixed amount per patient per year for outpatient care),
case-related payments for inpatient care, and zero-based budgeting linked to hospital
performance--all widely used in the OECD countries and in some developing countries--
have not yet been tested in Venezuela.
1.27      Govemment health facilities have generally failed to charge fees to IVSS or
private insurance for patients with coverage. This situation, which is both inequitable
and threatening to MSAS' financial position, occurs because of the Ministry's inability
to set fees on the basis of actual cost of services; its lack of capacity to bill and collect
from those who are insured; and a pervasive attitude on the part of staff that charging
patients for health care is unnecessary or immoral.



7
1.28      Due in part to insufficient budgetary allocations and in part to procurement
methods, MSAS and other public providers have had difficulty ensuring stable supplies
of basic drugs in health facilities. Patients often need to purchase their drugs directly,
which can be costly for the poor. MSAS drug procurement tends to be decentralized to
the regions and to hospitals. Hospitals are limited to making drug purchases under
US$2000. As a result, they purchase frequently and in small lots from local pharmacies.
Emergency purchases are common. Few technical staff and almost no norms and
information are available to guide procurement decisions at the regional and hospital
level. Inventory and distribution are poor. Losses are very high. Difficulties in health
facilities include lack of resources, shortages of drugs in the market, high prices and
overdue supplier credits. No policy for standardizing prescriptions is in place.
1.29      While program coverage and expenditure data do not permit a complete
analysis of resource allocation, many cost-effective health interventions have been
neglected.  Cost-effectiveness analysis can assess the "best buys" in health-related
interventions.  In this methodology, the disability--adjusted life years gained from
different interventions are compared to their costs. The findings of the World Bank in
the 1993 World Development Report suggest priorities for Venezuela. Some of the
neglected interventions that rank very high as "best buys" in the health sector are
childhood immunizations, integrated programs of prenatal and delivery care, improved
domestic hygiene and infant feeding practices to prevent diarrhea, antibiotic therapy for
acute respiratory infection, and endemic disease control.
1.30      While programs exist in all of these areas, epidemiological and program data
indicate that they need to be substantially expanded and strengthened. Since these
services are generally delivered on an outpatient basis in clinics and lower-level hospitals,
improvements in infrastructure, management, and the allocation of recurrent spending for
health need to be concentrated on this part of the health system.
1.31      In the last few  years, Venezuela has moved toward decentralizing,
restructuring and modernizing its public administration. As other Latin American
countries have shifted their health policies, Venezuelan officials also have shown a
growing interest in reforming the health financing system. In particular, they are eager
to consider changes that would boost cost recovery in the public delivery system, link
budget allocations more closely to provider performance, and allow for the use of public
resources to target basic health services for the poor. To implement such changes,
however, more careful analysis of current health financing practices and of feasible
options for reform is required.
1.32      Improving the Organization of Services. The health system has not shown
flexibility in adapting to the socioeconomic, demographic and epidemiological changes
of the past four decades.  Its development shows strategic planning errors; these
miscalculations are most striking in service delivery, where Venezuela has persisted in
applying strategies which are more appropriate to less developed agricultural based



8
economies, without taking into consideration major trends in urbanization. Thus a
predominantly urban population is served by an extensive network of dispersed
ambulatory clinics. Overall, ambulatory clinics make up 95 percent of MSAS health
facilities. By the year 2000, 93 per cent of the population will be living in cities. Yet
the largest number of infrastructure investments have been made in less concentrated
areas. Although the number of hospital beds is generally adequate, the quantity and
quality of services delivered in cities is often inadequate. Because hours are short in both
ambulatory facilities and hospital outpatient departments, patients tend to seek care from
hospital emergency  rooms.   This introduces an element of inefficiency and
ineffectiveness, greatly increasing unit costs and overloading hospital emergency services
to the point of collapse.
1.33      The problems of the health service delivery system as now constituted are
several. Weaknesses in the organization and functioning of the different levels of care
include: a) a lack of coordination between the primary and referral levels; b) poor
information flow among levels; (c) low resolutive capacity of ambulatory facilities; and
(d) poor human resource management. Ambulatory clinics and hospitals provide
overlapping services, as the outpatient departments of hospitals provide services available
at the ambulatory clinics. Even for primary care, many patients bypass ambulatory
centers, because of long waiting periods and lack of confidence in the quality of care
provided. This can raise the cost of basic health care needlessly. As the quality of
health services has deteriorated during recent years, this trend is becoming more
pronounced. The number of hospital "emergencies" is increasing alarmingly, both in
absolute terms and as a share of activities. Most hospitals currently have no measures
to discourage this misuse of resources.
1.34      Efforts are needed to increase efficiency and equity in the utilization of the
existing health facilities. The option of reducing hospital beds should be studied, as
should the possibility of reducing outpatient capacity in Type III and Type IV hospitals.
Some states are proposing to upgrade ambulatory facilities in order to lessen demand on
hospitals. The problems currently affecting service delivery need to be studied and new
models of attention considered which hold greater promise in responding to the changing
health problems of the population.
1.35      Information flows in one direction, from lower level facilities to hospitals.
The lack of interaction among facility levels and the lack of feedback on patients referred
up the system discourages health personnel at lower level facilities from making referrals
and reduces their attention to following up their patients' treatments.
1.36      Staff are frustrated because their capacity to resolve the health problems of
their patients is hampered by the lack of operational equipment and frequent shortages
of medical supplies and drugs. Defining and implementing a package of services to be
offered at each level will go a long way toward increasing resolutive capacity. This
needs to be accompanied by improvements in staffing patterns, material management and



9
equipment supply and maintenance to ensure that the resources needed to carry out the
services are available.
1.37      Management of human resources is one of the major issues in the Venezuelan
health sector. Currently over 100,000 people work in the MSAS; their salaries account
for over 70 percent of the ministry budget. Major differences exist in human resource
levels by state. While Miranda has 5.4 physicians per 10,000 inhabitants, the Federal
District of Caracas has 36.7. Yet staffing levels and staffing patterns are inadequate.
A high proportion of physicians are specialists relative to general practitioners.
Relatively few nurses are available and a high proportion of manpower is auxiliary or
administrative. Furthermore, despite the government's wish to emphasize public health,
graduates in public health, health administration, economics and epidemiology are scarce.
1.38      The task of quantifying MSAS personnel is made difficult by the outdated
manual system of personnel administration, the large number of substitute staff outside
the personnel roster and the way labor is recorded in the budget. Personnel in a facility
budget often work in other facilities. Staff working in the same facility can be paid from
one of several budget categories and by different sources (MSAS, municipalities, states,
foundations). Furthermore, because of lengthy administrative procedures, staff assigned
to one post may transfer yet their salaries may still be charged to the first facility. Staff
on extended medical leave or eligible for retirement are difficult to remove from the
payroll. Thus, often they continue to receive their monthly salaries but do not work.
Temporary workers are hired to replace them outside the personnel roster and budget.
The difference between budgeted positions and active staff can often be as much as 20
percent. In addition to the lack of clarity and information for personnel planning and
management, redeploying labor is difficult. Union contracts state that personnel cannot
be transferred without employee and union consent. As a result, new staff often are
hired to fill vacancies despite the presence of excess staff in other positions.
1.39      Increasing Hospital Autonomy. Hospital directors do not have sufficient
budgetary and administrative decision making authority needed to establish or maintain
quality and efficiency. The public hospital sector is highly centralized. Hospitals receive
an annual budget from the MSAS which is intended to cover only salaries and materials
expenses. Eighty five percent (85%) of the annual budget is allocated for salaries and
15% for drugs and materials. Personnel expenditures crowd out the purchase of other
inputs, leaving little for maintenance, equipment and drugs and other supplies.
1.40      Hospitals are not assigned the responsibility for managing expenses related
to the purchase of equipment, utilities, contracts for maintenance, food service and
laundry because other institutions (i.e. FIMA) or departments within MSAS pay for these
expenses directly. As a result, hospitals view their expenses as inclusive of only salaries,
drugs and materials purchases. MSAS does not prepare an annual statement of expenses
delineating the variations between the budget and actual expenses. With few budgetary
controls hospital personnel have no incentive to manage resources efficiently.



10
1.41      Hospital directors generally only work part-time because of low salaries,
dividing their time between managing the hospital and practicing medicine. They lack
adequate training in hospital administration. Hospital directors have little control over
their staff. National labor unions impose inflexible, sometimes unreasonable, staffing
rules in their collective contracts.
1.42      Building Decentralized Capacity. The most challenging and least tractable
aspect of the decentralization process in the short run is the transfer of active personnel
from the Ministry of Health to the states. Under the terms of the agreements with the
first five states, the federal government will deposit 20 percent of the accumulated social
benefits of active personnel into a trust fund created for each state.  The federal
government will also issue special bonds (as allowed for in the Public Credit Law of
1993) for an additional 20 percent of the accumulated social benefits. The proceeds of
these bonds also are to be deposited in the states' trust funds. The remaining 60 percent
is to be covered through annual contributions from the central government to the states.
1.43       MSAS estimates that as of April 30, 1994, the value of the accumulated
social benefits for all employees was about BsI27.3 billion (or US$1.06 billion at the
then prevailing exchange rate); this is equal to all planned government expenditures for
health in 1994. For the first five states to be decentralized, the cost of the accumulated
benefits came to Bs26.6 billion or US$222 million. At the end of June 1994, the
Congress approved the authorization of the initial transfer to the states of 40 percent of
this amount, or about US$89 million, thus taking a major positive step in achieving the
effective decentralization of the country's health system.
1.44       Over the longer run, the main challenge of decentralization is to create
capacity at the state level and below  to manage health services.   Under the
decentralization program, the central Ministry of Health will be responsible for defining
national policies and plans and consolidating the national budget. It will also set and
monitor training policies, standardize and certify medical technology, maintain a system
of service indicators, lead health research and manage multilateral and bilateral
coordination. The state will define its program and budget, manage hospital services and
personnel, and maintain a state system  of service indicators.   The respective
responsibilities of the Ministry and the state are described in greater detail in Annex III.
1.45      The current capacity of the state health directorates (Direcciones Regionales
de Salud or DRS) is extremely limited. The DRS typically are staffed by a director and
a handful of personnel for planning, public health, human resources and training, and
epidemiology. Below the DRS, the health districts have minimal staff and resources.
In recent years, pilot efforts to strengthen the local governments in a few states,
including Falc6n and Zulia, have been undertaken with support from UNDP. Similarly,
PAHO has sponsored a program (Sistemas Locales de Salud, or SILOS) to expand the
capacity of selected health districts. The proposed project would build on these pilot
activities to develop health service planning and management capacity in the four states.



11
1.46      Enhancing Quality Through Physical Improvements. The economic and
population growth of the 1960s and 1970s led to significant growth in the number of
government health facilities. In the 1980s the volume of construction and the equipping
of facilities dropped sharply.  This provided an opportunity to  concentrate on
maintenance and repair. Yet, in the second half of the 1980s, when public spending on
health dropped from around US$100 per capita to about US$50, the health sector reduced
spending on infrastructure and equipment maintenance. The public sector neglected good
practices of inventory replacement and preventive and corrective maintenance. The
resulting deterioration created a backlog of rehabilitation and equipment requirements
which are key to improving the quality and efficiency of health care. Over the 1980s,
the Ministry of Health spent between 2 and 4 percent of its resources on investment in
infrastructure, equipment and furniture.   Spending by the Ministry of Urban
Development (MINDUR), the agency charged with health facility construction, dropped
from Bs. 244 million in 1981 to zero in 1988. International experience suggests that
maintenance costs for health facilities should be about 1-2 percent of replacement cost
for civil works and 4 percent for basic systems (water, electricity, etc.). For equipment,
operating and maintenance costs should range between 8 and 10 percei-t of replacement
costs per year. While recent figures on spending as a share of replacement costs are not
available for project hospitals and ambulatory clinics, it has been considerably below
recommended levels.
1.47      A review of infrastructure and equipment conditions in project hospitals
suggests some important gaps. First, many of the external systems, such as water
supply, solid and liquid waste disposal and electricity are damaged. Internal systems
including electrical connections, telephones and call systems, air conditioning, water and
sewage, boilers and elevators are also damaged. Others, such as fire prevention systems,
emergency exits, emergency electrical backup and radiation protection and exposure
monitoring systems simply do not exist. Serious problems exist in the handling of solid
wastes in hospitals and clinics.  They lack containers and plastic bags; hospital
incinerator installations are damaged or non-operational. Security systems are non-
existent; the lack of controls on hospital access contributes to serious problems of
equipment theft and puts community members at risk of contamination.
1.48      Equipment problems often cause bottlenecks in hospitals. The most crucial
breakdowns tend to occur in systems such as water and electricity, boilers and elevators
and clinical areas of surgery, radiology, laboratory and critical care. Some equipment
is underutilized because of the short hours maintained by government hospitals. Similar
pieces of equipment are  scattered throughout hospitals, contributing further to
underutilization and inefficiency. Equipment of all types (medical, plant, office and
furniture) shows marked deterioration. A large share is outdated, with much of the
equipment dating from the opening of the hospital. Installations have also deteriorated
from makeshift additions which do not comply with engineering norms.



12
1.49      MSAS norms for building and equipment management have not been updated
since the 1970s. Diverse procurement methods have resulted in great variation of
equipment by country of origin, make and model as well as technological complexity.
No systematic procedures are in place to guide procurement, such as review of technical
specifications and technical libraries. Procedure and medical manuals are missing.
Hospital equipment inventories and maintenance records are not up to date. MSAS does
not have a defined policy for equipment replacement, nor does it maintain estimates of
useful life by equipment type.
C. Government Strategy
1.50      In the face of increasing poverty, relatively high infant mortality rates and
reduced federal resources to finance health care, the Government is conscious of the need
to make changes in the financing and organization of health care. Its strategy for
addressing existing deficiencies is still emerging. To date, the Government has identified
three strategic lines of action: (a) restructuring and downsizing of the central Ministry
to assume a largely normative and supervisory role; (b) decentralizing responsibility for
the management of health services to the states; and (c) strengthening the referral
network of ambulatory clinics and hospitals.
1.51      Of these three lines of action, the Government has made the most progress
on decentralization. As noted earlier, five states have signed decentralization agreements
with the Ministry of Health approved by the Congress. The Ministry of Finance has
made an initial transfer of resources required to finance the accumulated social benefits
of transferred personnel and the Ministry of Health began budgetary transfers in October
1994.
1.52      In addition to the three strategies which the Government has already
identified (restructuring the Ministry; decentralizing health care management; and
strengthening the referral network), the Government has come to realize the importance
of making other changes in the financing and organization of health services. The
Government understands the need to redefine which services should be publicly-financed.
Related to this, the Government also realizes the importance of rationalizing the service
delivery model to ensure that human resources, equipment and facilities are organized
appropriately to provide such services. The Government is beginning to consider how
its resource allocation policies and practices can be modified to ensure cost-effectiveness
and to build in incentives for efficiency (through greater management autonomy of
hospitals and through performance agreements). The Government also acknowledges the
need to capture additional sources of revenues to supplement federal resources. To this
end, the Government is beginning to consider cost recovery and the application of users'
fees.



13
1.53      To a great extent, the Government foresees the proposed project and the
complementary operation to be supported by the InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB)
as the means to advance on these lines of action and to build on its initial progress in
decentralization. While the Government has a clear idea of the changes it would like to
make, the levels of understanding and experience for decision making are still incipient.
The project will assist in increasing these through support for policy analysis in finance,
autonomy and the service delivery model. The IDB-supported operation will strengthen
the capacity of a streamlined central Ministry to lead and regulate the health sector. Both
operations will support the Government's efforts in the other areas mentioned in a subset
of states and build the basis for broad national reforms in the future.
D. Bank Role and Strategy
1.54      In 1989, the Bank resumed lending to Venezuela after a 15 years hiatus, and
reached agreements with the Government on macro-economic management, financial
sector reforms, and social programs.  Much of the essential restructuring and
deregulation of the Venezuelan economy was completed in 1991. The Bank's efforts are
now directed toward encouraging the Government to follow prudent fiscal and monetary
policies and to continue privatization, restructuring and deregulation efforts. In the social
sectors, the Bank strategy has been to assist in cushioning the poor from the effects of
adjustment and to improve the efficiency and equity of programs. The Bank's sector
work has shown that the incidence and severity of poverty have increased significantly
in the past decade and that social spending has suffered from inefficiency and
mistargeting. Several crucial areas have been neglected: preventive health care, pre-
school and primary education and nutritional assistance for lower income groups. At the
same time, a large proportion of public social spending has benefitted middle and high-
income groups. Considerable room for improvement exists without excessive financial
strain, but this implies reforming basic policies for the allocation and use of public
resources, improving implementation capacity and strictly monitoring the impact of social
programs.
1.55      In an effort to reduce the adverse impact on the poor of stabilization and
adjustment programs, the Government prepared a Social Sectors Action Program which
constitutes the basic policy framework of the Bank-financed Social Development Project
(Loan 3270-VE). In addition, the Technical Assistance for Preinvestment Loan (Loan
3225-VE), effective in June 1991, was designed to strengthen the Government's capacity
to select, prepare and implement sound investment projects and to build up a pipeline of
projects, including health and education projects, suitable for financing by the Bank. A
Poverty Study (Report No. 9114-VE), Health Sector Study (Report No. 10713-VE, May
1993), Education Sector Study (Report No. 11 130-VE, December 1993) and a Women
in Development paper (Report No. 13013-VE, June 1993) have helped to identify issues,
policies and investment needs in the social sectors and to strengthen dialogue on major
issues.



14
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.56      The Bank's assistance strategy for Venezuela, discussed at the Board on
November 4, 1993, is to support policies and investments that will reduce public sector
imbalances, encourage private sector economic activities and improve the effectiveness
of social programs.  In the social sectors, the emphasis is on increasing the efficiency
of public spending, supporting private sector delivery of services and targeting basic
education, health and nutrition activities to the poor. The proposed project would
support this strategy directly, by assisting the government to improve the efficiency and
quality of health services that benefit mainly low-income households.
1.57      The World Bank is well placed to assist Venezuela, because of its broad and
rapidly growing experience with health sector reform in developing countries regions.
Our analytical work, as summarized in the 1993 World Development Report on health,
and our support for health projects in other countries deal extensively with the issues
lying at the heart of the proposed project: decentralizing health services, improving
hospital efficiency and introducing new health financing mechanisms. By strengthening
the government health delivery system, the project also would complement and reinforce
ongoing efforts to improve targeting of the poor through the Social Development Project
and to combat infectious diseases through the Endemic Disease Control Project.
F. Lessons Learned
1.58      A review of Bank-financed health projects, particularly those which have
supported the process of reform, yields useful lessons. Because the first group of Bank-
supported health care reform projects are still under execution, these lessons are "best
practices" based on our current knowledge rather than lessons grounded in proven
success. First, experience points to the importance of a clear declaration of government
health policy and reform intentions early on. Second, as part of project supervision, joint
annual reviews of progress on reform and project implementation provide the opportunity
for modifying project design and reassigning resources. Third, in projects which support
decentralization, agreements between the central government and states are important to
confirm commitment of all parties to shared objectives. Finally, decentralized execution
of civil works builds local capacity.
1.59      Bank experience in Venezuela suggests several other elements which will be
important to project success, namely addressing procurement issues early on, encouraging
community participation and defining work programs. A detailed presentation of lessons
drawn from Bank projects can be found in Annex I.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.1       The principal objective of the project is to improve health outcomes for the 3 million
users of government health services in the states of Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo and Zulia, thereby
contributing to poverty alleviation. This will be achieved by:
(a) redefining key government health policies related to the organization and
financing of government health services;
(b) promoting decentralization by building the capacity of the four states to plan
and manage health care in a decentralized framework; and
(c) enhancing the quality and efficiency of government ambulatory clinics and
hospitals by rehabilitating physical plant and replacing basic equipment.
B. Area and Poverty Focus
2.2       Area. The project will be carried out in the states of Falc6n, Trujillo, Aragua and
Zulia. To broaden project impact, the subcomponents of strategic image management and basic
management training (described below) may extend support to other states. The area selected
for the project includes 15 percent of the country's population. The national government
selected the states of Falc6n, Trujillo, Aragua and Zulia to provide them with support as they
undergo decentralization. (For a discussion of the decentralization process in the project states,
refer to Annex III.)
2.3       The government health program which includes this project and an IDB-financed
operation concentrates on eleven of the fourteen states which have begun in the process of
decentralization. Aragua and Falc6n are among the five most advanced. They have signed
decentralization agreements with the MSAS and they have received the initial tranche of funds
required to transfer staff. Zulia has not signed a decentralization agreement with the MSAS
because of the outstanding issue of accumulated social benefits for about 11,000 excess workers
who were hired directly by the state to complement the same number of MSAS staff. Zulia and
the MSAS are exploring an alternative model for decentralization in stages. Trujillo has signed
a transitional agreement for joint management of health services with the MSAS. It was agreed
that the operational transfer of authority for management of health services from MSAS
to Falc6n and Aragua would be a condition of project effectiveness (para. 6.2.b).



16
Table 2-1. Ministry of Health Facilities in Project States
a" uru    RwuIU                           Typu   Te  Type  ill II  roe IV  TrA
Ambuany  AmhdetY  Amhwd.iy  AmhdU-y  Amhul.y  Hoisa  RaqpiAl  B-pl Hilp    Fad"-
1       11       I   11           III   _   _
Atagua      41       30       30       2       4      2      2      0      1    112
Falcon     158       71       26       1        0     2      0      0      1    259
Trujillo    234      56       23       3       0      3      1      2      0    322
Zulia       103      44       69       2       4     12      3      3      3    243
Total       536     201      148       8        8    19      6      5      5    936
** in addition to these general hospitals, Aragua has one additional Type I specialized hospital, TSujillo has one
additional specialized hospital of each Type 1, II and 111. Zulia hasfour additional specialized hospitals of
Type II and two of lype 111.
Source: Ministry of Health Sectoral Office of Planning and Statistics, 1993
2.4        Trujillo is the smallest of the project states, with about 3 percent of the national
population. It is more densely populated than the country as a whole, but a relatively low share
of the population lives in urban areas. Nearly one of every two households is poor. Infant
mortality is higher than average. The Ministry of Health offers 0.7 consultations per capita per
year. MSAS facilities provide 1.7 hospital beds per 1,000 population. Considering private and
IVSS facilities, Trujillo has a higher than average supply of hospital beds (3.1 per 1,000). State
spending on health has averaged between 7 and 11 percent of the budget from 1992 to 1994 and
has been decreasing as a share of spending over this period (11 percent in 1992; 8 percent in
1993; 7 percent of budget in 1994).
2.5        Falc6n is a another small state with 3 percent of the national population.  Its
population density is similar to Venezuela as a whole. It has a higher than average share of poor
households and is more rural than Venezuela as a whole. Ministry of Health facilities provide
0.7 consultations per capita per year, on par with other project states. Infant and maternal
mortality rates are better than average. Vaccination coverage rates are relatively low. From
1992 through 1994, the state government of Falc6n allocated between 7 and 10 percent of its
budget to health services (7.9 percent in 1992; 7.1 percent in 1993; 9.7 percent of budget in
1994).
2.6        Because it borders the Federal District of Caracas, Aragua is the most densely
populated of the project states and well above the national average. The population of 1.3
million is 6 percent of the national total. It has the lowest share of poor households of the four
project states. Despite its proximity to Caracas, health indicators are poor. Maternal mortality
is well above the national average. Infant mortality is also slightly above the national average.
The Ministry of Health facilities provide only 0.5 consultations per capita per year, compared
to 0.7 in Falc6n and Trujillo.  MSAS hospital beds, at 0.5 per 1,000 population, are



17
substantially more scarce than in Trujillo or Zulia (1.7/1,000). This shortage is not compensated
for by private or IVSS beds, since the total supply in the state stands at 1.4 beds per thousand.
Aragua is the most urbanized of the project states. In contrast, Trujillo is the most rural,
followed by Falc6n and Zulia.
2.7       Zulia is by far the largest of the four participating states. With a population of 2.7
million, it comprises 13 percent of the national population. The project will concentrate on an
area equivalent to about one fourth the total population of Zulia. Over half of Zulia's population
is poor. Infant mortality is worse than the national average. Maternal mortality is below the
national average. The MSAS provides 0.4 consultations per capita per year, far below levels
in other project states. MSAS hospital beds, at 1.7/1,000, are at comparable levels to other
project states.
2.8       Poverty Focus. This project is expected to contribute to poverty alleviation by
improving the access of poor Venezuelans to good quality health care services. Based on 1990
household income data, the Government poverty map estimates that approximately 44 percent
of Venezuelans are poor. Of the four project states, three have higher than average shares of
poor residents compared with Venezuela's twenty-three states. The poverty mapping is based
on the criterion of unmet basic needs, a composite indicator which factors in residential
crowding and adequacy, access to basic services, school attendance, and the economic
dependency ratio. Using the unmet basic needs criterion, 43 percent of the population in the
project area is poor. These nearly 1.3 million poor residents constitute a higher than expected
share of the users of government health services, because they lack the resources to pay for
alternative sources of care. Therefore, the poor are expected to reap a disproportionately high
share of benefits from the project in terms of improved financing, organization and quality of
services. Through the health care financing studies described below, the project will develop
better cost information and explore mechanisms for tapping alternative sources of financing for
health care for the non-poor and for non-essential services, thereby permitting better targeting
of government financing to basic services for the poor.
C. Components
2.9       The project will have three major components:  Policy Analysis and Reform;
Institutional Development and Strengthening of Health Service Delivery. For a summary of
project components and subcomponents with their respective specific objectives and related costs,
see Annex IV.



18
Component A: Policy Analysis and Reform
(US$ 4.5 million base cost)
2.10      The Policy Analysis and Sectoral Reforms Component will support seminars,
studies and pilot experiments in the four project states oriented toward redefining key health
policies related to the organization and financing of health services. The experience of the four
states with these innovations will provide the basis for future introduction of policy changes at
the national level. The component will concentrate on: (a) increasing hospital autonomy; (b)
rationalizing the service delivery model; and (c) improving health financing. This component
aims to bring about key policy changes in the project states to: (a) shift services to the most cost-
effective level of the health care delivery system; (b) shift spending in the four states to more
cost-effective services; (c) allocate resources through a mechanism which promotes cost-effective
and efficient service delivery; (d) diversify financing by capturing private insurance payments;
and (e) introduce legal and administrative autonomy in a subset of hospitals.
2.11      Each of the studies, which will be carried out in two phases, is described below.
The implementation schedule for the studies is included in Annex IV. The first phase will
concentrate on the identification of options and the development of recommendations. Following
the first phase, the Ministry of Health and the four project states will assess the
recommendations. These will provide the basis for an interim project review in January 1996
with the Bank to agree on the specific measures which will be developed on a pilot basis in the
second phase.
2.12      The second phase, starting in April 1996, will focus on preparing feasible proposals
for adoption as pilot experiments in the four states. These proposals will include preparation
of the legal and administrative measures required to introduce the innovations. While this
component will be implemented by the central Ministry of Health, the four states will participate
through approval of the terms of reference, review of the recommendations and implementation
of the pilot experiments.
2.13      The conclusions of the financing and service delivery studies will provide the basis
for the development of management systems under the second component. Subsequent to the
completion of the service delivery model study, rehabilitation and equipment will be financed
by the project for the services identified as appropriate for public financing and at the level of
facility deemed appropriate.
2.14      Phase I of the studies would be carried out in 1995. In 1996, pilot experiments
constituting phase II of the studies would be initiated in the four states. In 1997, the
Govemment and the Bank would agree on an action plan for introducing reforms in organization
and financing of health services in the four states. This plan would be carried out from 1997
through 1999. For a complete presentation of the implementation timetable and expected
outcomes of each study, see Annex IV. At negotiations, it was agreed that by January 15,
1996, the Government would review with the Bank the results of the three policy



19
studies and agree on phase II pilot experiments for testing proposed reforms (para. 6.1 .a).
In addition, it was agreed that by June 30, 1997, the Government would agree with the
Bank on an action plan in the project states (para. 6.1 .c).
2.15      Related to the policy studies, but less central to the success of policy changes, are
two additional activities--strategic image management, which will improve MSAS conflict
resolution capacity and track public opinion, and support for other policy initiatives. At
negotiations, the Government provided the Bank with a letter summarizing its health policy
and setting forth its medium-term goals and the major elements of the reform program
which provide the basis for this component.
2.16      Hospital Autonomy. The objective of the hospital autonomy study is to develop and
introduce alternatives for the legal and functional organization of hospitals (and other facilities
as feasible) in order to improve management, resource allocations and performance. The
Ministry of Health has already undertaken a series of studies to assess legal and administrative
models for autonomy; the project would build on these and link autonomy options to decisions
on the service delivery model and health care finance. This component would develop the legal,
technical and administrative mechanisms for the implementation of the autonomy model(s)
identified as most appropriate. The study would develop the bases for autonomous management
of financial and human resources, contracts and procurement, and norms to regulate the
operation of hospital foundations. It is expected that the action plan would include a provision
to implement the autonomy model fully in at least one hospital per project state.
2.17      Rationalization of Service Delivery Models. The objective of the service delivery
model study is to develop an alternative model for the organization and staffing of health
facilities which would ensure service provision at the most cost-effective level and by the most
cost-effective staff. The new model would improve the productive efficiency of the health
system by ensuring that services are delivered with minimum patient risk at the level which
requires the least expensive combination of inputs. It would reduce the variety of facilities in
the referral network and improve its functioning. The study would also develop the legal and
administrative changes required for implementing the new service delivery model and for
modifying the human resources authorized to provide various services. It is expected that the
action plan would include measures to shift services identified as inappropriate for delivery at
a given type of facility to the appropriate facility type.
2.18      Improved Health Financing. The project will lay the foundation for improvements
in health financing by undertaking a series of strategic studies, providing training and developing
models for health care finance which better link financing to production of services. Four
interrelated studies will support these aims. They will focus on: (a) health services to be
financed by the government; (b) resource allocation; (c) cost allocation, cost accounting, cost
recovery and users fees; and (d) performance agreements. The Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) will finance a related study on financing to review the resources provided by various



20
institutions to finance health services.  That study seeks to develop a proposal for better
interinstitutional coordination in the allocation of resources.
2.19       The government financing study aims to identify the health services which should
be entitled to the highest government financing. It seeks to identify which interventions the state
should finance, the criteria and methodology to determine financing strategies and a timetable
for redirecting public spending toward these health interventions and administrative mechanisms.
The action plan is expected to include steps to reallocate public expenditure in the project states
to the interventions identified as most appropriate for government financing.
2.20       The studies on resource allocation and performance agreements are closely related.
The study on resource allocation seeks to determine the best mechanism for transferring
resources from the center to the states and from the states to facilities, and to establish what
volume of resources needs to be transferred to each state and facility for each budget period.
The study will propose the budget categories, transfer mechanisms and control mechanisms to
be implemented. It will assess the legal, financial and administrative feasibility of the allocation
mechanism and identify necessary steps to make it feasible. It will establish the cost of the
recommended resource allocation system and propose a strategy and timeframe for implementing
it.
2.21       The study on performance agreements will seek to define how  health and
management targets would be agreed upon between MSAS and the states and between the states
and facilities at the time of financial transfers and how health and financial management
objectives would be quantified in such agreements.  It will assess the legal validity of
performance contracts and propose mechanisms to ensure compliance. It is expected that the
action plan would introduce the use of performance agreements for resource allocations from the
MSAS to the four states and from the states to hospitals and ambulatory clinics.
2.22      The cost study seeks to analyze costs and develop financing alternatives for such
costs in public health facilities. It will introduce cost systems and financing alternatives in public
health facilities in project states. The study will recommend whether cost recovery will be
introduced and for which services and population groups. It will also propose what facilities
would be authorized to do with net income from cost recovery. It will suggest the respective
roles of the public and private sectors in the provision of health services. The financial
information systems needed to implement the recommendations of this study will be introduced
in the four states in the second component described below. It is expected that the action plan
would include a provision for project hospitals to establish prices for hospital services payable
by insurers and to increase net hospital income from this source.
2.23       Strategic Image Management. The strategic image management program  will
support: (a) the design and introduction of systems for tracking public opinion; (b) training and
advisory services to the central Ministry and state health directorates in negotiation, conflict
resolution and effective communication; (c) training of project personnel in strategic image
management and public relations; and (d) the development of a communications strategy. These



21
activities are planned for the first three years of implementation only, during the critical phase
of reform studies and the implementation of recommendations.
2.24      Other Policy Initiatives. The project includes a fund to support ancillary policy
initiatives which may emerge through studies, workshops and training. One initiative is a review
of the health service organization in Caracas. This is an important issue for the Ministry since
Caracas is the one major area of the country which will not be decentralized and where MSAS
must determine how services will be managed. Another is a study of information needs at all
levels of the health system, including an assessment of various health information systems being
developed in the sector and recommendations for integrating them, and the development of a
health information systems master plan. This work would generate a strategic proposal for
meeting health information needs in the medium-term.
Component B: Institutional Development
(US$ 23.7 million base costs)
2.25      This component will support the Government's strategy of decentralizing health
service management to the states by strengthening the capacity of four states to plan and manage
health care.  For a description of the respective roles of the MSAS and states in the
decentralized structure, see Annex III. Capacity building will be achieved by providing
management training to the staff of state health directorates, district health offices and health
facilities; by introducing effective management systems; and by providing states and districts
with technical assistance.  This technical assistance will enable states to implement the
recommendations emerging from the policy studies of the first component and to address
institutional development issues they identify over the course of project execution. On the basis
of this component, it is expected that states will develop the capacity to: (a) plan and execute
budgets; (b) recruit and retain qualified staff; (c) minimize losses of drugs and materials; (d)
reduce productivity losses due to insufficient drugs or materials or broken-down equipment or
buildings; (e) reduce contamination from hospital and clinic waste; and (f) identify and respond
to disease patterns more quickly and use up-to-date management information for decision
making.
Bl: Management Training Program
(US$ 4.0 million)
2.26      A program for management training has been included in the project because human
resources at the state, district and facility level are assuming new roles in the decentralized
structure for which they have not been prepared. This broad-based program will emphasize the
application of modem management techniques adapted from successful business practices to the
health sector. Because successful decentralization and changes in the financing and organization



22
of health services depend upon changes in organizational culture, the program seeks to create
a critical mass of human resources knowledgeable and skilled in new management techniques.
The proposed management training program supports decentralization and emphasizes the
development of skills required for improved performance and for successful project
implementation. It will be structured to foster cross-fertilization among staff from the four
states. The program includes: (a) basic management training, designed and managed at the
national level, with the main objective of preparing MSAS staff at the regional, district and
facility level for the decentralization process; and (b) complementary management training,
designed and managed at the state level, with the main objectives of responding to the
management needs of each state and building operational capacity to manage training. This
broad-based program will be complemented by support for post-graduate training fellowships for
up to 5 people from each state in hospital management, public health administration,
epidemiology and health economics. These will be financed under the Higher Student Loan
Reform Project (Ln. 3494-VE). Because of the existing supply of acceptable clinical and
technical training in health, the project will not finance those specialties.
2.27      Basic management training. An estimated 1300 staff will be trained under this
subcomponent. (The distribution of courses and staff by level is indicated in Annex V.) Basic
management training will focus on providing managers in the regions with the skills and tools
needed to assume their new roles. The training contents will be progressively adapted to the
results of the policy studies and the design of the management systems. During the first year,
the contents will be as follows: (a) intensive training for high level managers of the DRS; (b)
selected management areas for chiefs of units within the DRS, health districts and hospitals;(c)
operational management for mid-level managers in health districts and hospitals and managers
of ambulatory health facilities; and (d) logistics support for administrative support staff at health
districts and hospitals. To encourage an interchange of ideas, courses will be held in each of
the four states by rotation and include trainees from all states. For a detailed presentation of the
basic training program, see Annex V.
2.28       Complementary management training. The project will support complementary
management training for about 4,000 staff (1,000 per state at 200 per year). This training aims
to improve staff understanding of the work environment and to provide tools for decision
making. As management systems are developed, training will be modified to support practical
application of these. The courses are intended for medical personnel as well as administrative
and support staff.  The DRS in each of the four states will define course content and
management. The PCU will produce guidelines to ensure that courses do not overlap with basic
management training and that they are within the scope of the project.
2.29      For the state of Falc6n, the DRS has developed a preliminary program based on
needs identified by staff. The program will include: (a) labor law, decentralization contracts,
and unions and collective contracts for health facility directors and personnel managers; (b) staff
motivation, institutional identification, self-esteem and human relations for personnel of districts
and health facilities; (c) community participation in planning, operations research and impact
evaluation of community-based programs for health staff working directly with communities; (d)



23
occupational safety and accident prevention for maintenance personnel; (e) time management,
program monitoring and training of trainers for health district staff with supervisory functions;
and finally (f) communication skills and meeting management for managers. This preliminary
program will be adjusted annually based on a needs assessment by state and facility staff. For
a detailed presentation of the complementary training program, see Annex V.
B2: Management Systems
(US$ 8.9 million)
2.30      In order to foster effective decentralization, the DRS, districts and facilities need to
develop the systems and capability to plan and manage health services. Thus the project will
support the development and introduction of systems for: (a) human resource management; (b)
strategic planning; (c) drugs and materials management; (d) infrastructure and equipment
maintenance; (e) financial administration; (f) waste management; (g) epidemiological
information; and (h) a computerized management information system (MIS) to support these
functions. The systems development will include training. The computerized MIS will be
introduced in the four regional health directorates, 20 health districts and a subset of 25
hospitals.
2.31      Systems will be designed to include the whole administrative and managerial
pyramid, encompassing regional health directorates, districts, hospitals and ambulatory clinics.
In order to ensure consistency between the state level systems and the recommendations which
emerge from the policy analysis and reform component, systems for human resource
management and financial administration would be developed after major policy decisions are
made on financing and the service delivery model. The implementation schedule can be found
in Annex IV.
2.32      Introducing a human resources management system  will improve personnel use
through staff auditing, review and modification of job descriptions, review of the organizational
structure of the health directorates, introduction of job performance evaluation, and streamlining
of administrative procedures.  Stakeholders (unions, professional associations, DRS and
communities) will participate actively in the design, development and implementation of this
system. The implementation of a strategic planning system will support the DRS in their
definition of health strategy.  It will also increase effective implementation of the health
programs and services by increasing planning and monitoring capabilities. The project will
support the establishment of the materials management function in hospitals to improve the
quality of services by ensuring availability of necessary supplies; and to reduce the total cost of
purchasing, storing and distributing materials.
2.33      The aim of introducing systematic planned preventive and corrective maintenance
is to maximize the useful life and functioning of buildings, basic systems and equipment. The
project will support cost effective maintenance by studying various options, such as development



24
of in-hospital capabilities and contracting out. It will support the development of maintenance
standards, norms and procedures, and the creation of maintenance records for equipment.
2.34      The project will introduce rmancial management models to enable DRS and
hospitals (and ambulatory clinics to the degree relevant) to manage their budgets and to plan
investments. This will require an evaluation of existing financial controls, institution of a cost
accounting system, and training to enable staff to assume higher levels of responsibility.
2.35      Systems for waste disposal would concentrate on: (a) determining the quantity of
medical wastes generated by location; (b) identifying the appropriate handling procedures for
these wastes; (c) selecting the optimum waste disposal procedures (e.g., incineration,
autoclaving, microwaving); (d) devising geographic area-specific plans for the handling and
disposal of these wastes; and (e) developing standards for the tracking and management of these
wastes. At the facility level, activities would concentrate on ensuring appropriate collection,
classification, handling, storage and disposal. This would require providing materials and
vehicles, and training clinic and hospital staff to maintain procedures.
2.36      The project will introduce an epidemiological information system to enable the
DRS and districts to monitor the incidence of diseases and the associated factors. This system
will include measures for collecting, storing, reporting and analyzing epidemiological
information.  The introduction of this system is expected to increase the states' capacity to
correctly identify disease trends and to develop timely strategies to prevent or respond to them.
2.37      The project will introduce a management information system in order to improve
decision making and management control by providing managers and personnel with complete,
timely and accurate information. The proposed information system would improve information
flow patterns and fill information gaps which now impede decision making. In ambulatory
clinics, this information system would continue to be manually operated, but the project would
support a study to redesign formats and procedures for monthly reporting in order to reduce the
time which clinic staff devote to recordkeeping and reporting. It would also provide clinic staff
with training in the use of information for management decisions.
2.38      At the hospital level, the information system would be computerized. In addition
to service statistics, the system would manage administrative information such as payroll,
materials, finances and maintenance. Each hospital would receive computer hardware and
software to manage these functions and staff would be trained. The system would be modular
and would allow for the addition of further functions at a later date. While not considered under
the project, the system could be complemented with modules for tracking patient services,
medical records, etc. By restricting project support to key management functions, the project
increases the likelihood of smooth implementation and provides the base for later expansion.
2.39      Health districts would also receive computer hardware and software as well as
training to process the data they receive from ambulatory clinics. DRS would receive hardware,
software and training to consolidate information from hospitals and health districts. These inputs



25
would also support the administrative functions of payroll, budget management, contract
supervision, etc. The central MSAS would receive information system support under parallel
financing from the IDB.
2.40      The project will contract consultants who will diagnose system needs, develop and
introduce the system, and train users. In order to ensure smooth implementation, the consultants
also will conduct a series of participatory workshops with stakeholders at various stages of
development to ensure agreement on problem identification, proposals, selection of options and
implementation.
B3: Institutional Development Support Fund
(US$ 5.9 million)
2.41      The project will include a fund designed to implement in the four states the
recommendations which emerge from the policy studies in the first component and to respond
to specific institutional development needs that may arise in each state. At the interim project
review planned for January 1996, the Government and the Bank would agree on the specific
institutional development initiatives which this fund would support based on the results of phase
I of the policy studies. For the eligibility criteria and procedures for the fund, see Annex V.
2.42      The state of Falc6n identified an indicative list of strategic proposals for the
institutional development fund: (a) coordination between the regional health directorate and other
institutions; (b) the feasibility of a regional public health laboratory; (c) health district population
mapping; (d) radio communications for epidemiological surveillance and referral systems; (e)
monitoring performance under state/municipal contracts; (f) a hospital records system; (g) a
health service planning methodology and system; (h) mechanisms for applying hospital fee
exemptions; and (i) reorganization of a hospital referral network.
Component C: Strengthening of Health Service Delivery
(US$66.0 million base cost)
2.43      This component will enhance the quality and efficiency of government health
services and strengthen the referral network by rehabilitating plant and replacing basic equipment
in approximately 427 ambulatory clinics and 4 hospitals in the states of Aragua, Falc6n, Trujillo
and Zulia. The component will entail the design and implementation of rehabilitation civil
works, the procurement of basic equipment to replace outdated or non-functioning equipment
and the development and implementation of plans for maintenance and waste disposal. On the
basis of these actions, it is expected that ambulatory clinics and hospitals will be in better
repair; space allocations and medical and office equipment will be adequate to functions;
facilities will be more accommodating to patients; and basic systems will be functional.



26
Cl: Hospital Rehabilitation and Basic Equipment
(US$36.4 milion)
2.44      The project will support the rehabilitation of four hospitals (one per state) with a
combined bed capacity of 1,240 (or 0.4/1,000 population). The emphasis will be on improving
the organization and use of space and improving efficiency and service quality. Rehabilitation
and equipment purchase decisions will be based on MSAS accreditation standards in combination
with a negative list of services which are clearly not cost-effective. This basis will be refined
by the Government on completion of the financing and service delivery studies at the time of the
interim project review. In rehabilitation, highest priority will be given to areas which create a
threat to health or safety or produce bottlenecks for workers and patients. Eligible projects will
include fire protection and security systems, kitchen and laundry facilities, systems for
electricity, water, steam, air conditioning, oxygen, etc; and areas for waste collection and
disposal. All hospital rehabilitations will include measures to improve waste management. To
be considered eligible, projects must be accompanied by a request by the hospital's community
board (Junta Socio-hospitalaria) or another organization with the legal basis to represent the
community. The project will finance the procurement of basic equipment needed to complete
available equipment in participating facilities, on the basis of the MSAS accreditation program
for facilities. Highest priority will be given to replacing existing basic equipment which has
surpassed its useful life and/or is broken and cannot be repaired. The project will finance
equipment purchases only when they are fully justified under both existing and improved service
patterns. The equipment will include medical and non-medical equipment, instruments, utensils
and furniture, ambulances and four-wheel drive vehicles.
2.45      The objective of rehabilitating infrastructure is to improve the efficiency and quality
of services by: remodeling areas which are dangerous or create serious barriers for workers,
patients and family members; improving areas of greatest congestion; improving hospital
accommodations; and improving areas with functions vital for the entire hospital (boilers,
electrical systems, etc.). Master plans have been prepared for two of the project hospitals, with
proposals for reorganizing existing space to make it more functional and cost and time estimates
for completing rehabilitation works. Analyses of water and sanitation conditions have also been
completed for these hospitals to identify requirements for water system rehabilitation works.
Equipment requirements to make basic systems operational have been estimated. The project
would finance improvements in systems for telephone communications, electricity, air
conditioning, water and sewer, hot water, fire protection and waste management. The project
would finance the preparation of functional and technical programs, detailed architectural and
engineering plans, the execution and supervision of civil works and the upgrading of basic
systems for operation, security and hospital waste management. The project will not finance any
works to expand inpatient bed or operating room capacity.
2.46      The hospital selected in Falc6n is the one which serves the entire state as a general
referral hospital. In each of the other states, one general referral hospital was tentatively



27
selected for the purpose of estimating costs. The states will obtain project approval for the
hospital they propose based on state health plans and the services the hospital provides.
2.47      The objectives of replacing equipment are: (a) to ensure functional equipment for
hospital operation; and (b) to institute a sustainable system for planned procurement and
replacement of equipment. The project will replace medical and engineering equipment and
furniture if: (a) it constitutes a bottleneck to service delivery; (b) replacement will substantially
improve the quality of patient care; or (c) it has surpassed its useful life. Preliminary equipment
lists have been prepared for two hospitals in consultation with hospital staff. Since hospitals
have not developed strategic plans which project optimal service patterns, equipment will only
be financed when it is demonstrably necessary under any reasonable service production
assumptions. Among criteria which the project would use to justify the procurement of specific
equipment are the following nine': (a) the population served demonstrates a real need for the
technology; (b) an appropriate space is available for installation; (c) all necessary support
systems are available (electricity, water, air conditioning) in the necessary quantity and quality;
(d) the equipment has a guarantee period; (e) a manual is available in Spanish; (f) spare parts
and maintenance materials are available locally; (g) consumable materials are available at
affordable prices; (h) technicians and engineers able to repair the equipment are available at
affordable rates; and (i) personnel who can operate the equipment or who can be trained to
operate it are available. During negotiations it was agreed that all the above criteria for
works and equipment in both hospitals and ambulatory clinics would be incorporated into
the rmal version of the project operating manual as a condition of effectiveness (para.
6.2.e).
2.48       The project will finance technical assistance to establish methods and procedures for
systematic equipment replacement and for disposal of obsolete and non-functional equipment;
to prepare inventories of existing equipment; and to develop equipment catalogues for hospitals
of different levels of complexity.
C2: Clinic Rehabilitation and Basic Equipment
(US$29.6 million)
2.49      The project will finance the physical rehabilitation of approximately 427 ambulatory
clinics (107 in Aragua, 90 in Falc6n, 95 in Trujillo and 135 in Zulia). Here also, the emphasis
will be on improving the organization and use of space and improving efficiency and service
quality. The major difference from the hospital rehabilitation is that the scale of clinic
rehabilitations will be much smaller.  Ambulatory clinics are simple facilities with low
rehabilitation requirements. Eligible projects include repair of roofs, walls and floors; correction
of water supply and electricity problems, improvements in ventilation and air conditioning; and
construction of perimeter walls. Special attention will be given to improving patient waiting
areas in order to increase comfort and take greater advantage of this opportunity for health
education and health promotion. Rehabilitation will aim to improve patient flow since space is
1 Proposed by WHO for evaluating large and fixed equipment procurement (1992)



28
often poorly organized. Offices double as examination rooms; some rooms function as hallways
to others. All clinic rehabilitations will include measures to improve waste management. To
be considered eligible, projects must be accompanied by a request by the clinic's community
board (Junta Socio-sanitaria), neighborhood association (asociaci6n de vecinos) or other
organization with the legal basis to represent the community. These requests will emphasize the
board's responsibility to receive new equipment, ensure its continued smooth operation and
safekeeping, monitor the progress of civil works, and coordinate with civil works supervisors.
2.50      Estimates of the number of ambulatory clinics and the cost of rehabilitation and
equipment are based on a review of facilities in the state of Falc6n. These estimates take into
account the mix of facilities including those which require major as well as those which require
only minor rehabilitation.  Annex V contains a detailed presentation of the bases for
rehabilitation cost estimates.
2.51      In Falc6n, a five-year indicative plan of works which the project could finance was
prepared. The ambulatory clinics selected have the most serious infrastructure problems and
higher than average population coverage rates, are relatively more isolated and provide a higher
than average volume of services. The three other states will apply the same criteria and process
used by Falc6n to develop final proposed lists of works. These criteria and procedures will be
set forth in the project operating manual.
2.52      The staff of individual facilities will agree with the project on incremental service
production targets which they will be able to meet as a result of the physical improvements and
new equipment. Compliance with these targets will be monitored by each state.
2.53      Annual state packages of works will be approved based on state agreement to assume
ongoing responsibility for appropriate staffing and for operating and maintenance costs. The
state will be required to provide documentation on ownership of land and facilities. Because the
government health sector has underemphasized maintenance in the recent past, agreements for
project works and equipment will require states to ensure adequate maintenance not only of the
physical infrastructure and equipment provided through the project but also of the existing stock
of plant and equipment in the project facilities. Annual maintenance of physical infrastructure
is estimated at 1 percent of replacement cost, operation and maintenance is estimated at 4
percent of replacement cost for fixed and non-fixed equipment.
2.54      In ambulatory clinics, the project will supply equipment to upgrade capacity. At
present, clinics often lack even basic equipment such as thermometers for monitoring the vaccine
cold chain and child growth monitoring and weighing equipment. In addition, they lack basic
office and communications equipment and reference materials. The project will supply these
with a view toward improving service quality. The project will not provide equipment to enable
clinics to undertake new services except when demand studies and epidemiological information
demonstrate a clear need and when such new services would be more cost-effective than
providing the same services at the hospital.



29
2.55      To estimate equipment needs, a sample of 50 ambulatory facilities of all types in
Falc6n was analyzed. Existing equipment inventories were compared to accreditation norms of
the MSAS. The average cost of bringing each type of facility up to MSAS norms was used to
estimate equipment costs in the rest of Falc6n and in the other three states.



III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Cost
3.1       Total project costs are estimated at about US$108.0 million, including physical and
price contingencies. Foreign exchange costs of US$42.9 million amount to about 40 percent of
total project costs. Tables 3.1 and 3.2 summarize the estimated costs by component and
summary accounts. Detailed costs are presented in Annex VII.
3.2       Base Costs and Contingencies. Base costs are expressed in June 1994 prices.
Taxes are not included because Venezuela does not have a sales tax. Duties were not included
because the proposed procurement arrangements will allow for the duty-free importation of
goods for the project. Equipment costs were based on prices for medical, non-medical and
information system equipment in the United States with adjustments for shipment to Venezuela.
ECRI, a WHO collaborating center which maintains comprehensive databases on medical
equipment in the international market, has verified estimates. Costs of civil works were based
on the costs of recent similar works contracted by the Ministry of Urban Development
(MINDUR) and by the four states. These costs were verified through consultations with private
contractors. Training costs were based on estimates provided by the Ministry of Health's
Directorate of Human Resources and the training coordinator for health services in Falc6n.
Estimates for local and international consulting services and travel and per diem were based on
current standards in Venezuela in other development projects. Operating costs for maintenance
of plant and equipment were based on standards applied in other Latin American countries.
Total contingencies of US$13.8 million represent 15 percent of base costs.  Physical
contingencies were applied as follows: 5 percent for goods and consulting services (except
medical and non-medical equipment) and 10 percent for civil works and medical and non-
medical equipment. No physical contingencies were applied to maintenance or operating costs.
For all components of the project, price contingencies averaging 2.2 percent per year were used.
This is the expected rate of increase for international prices for the period 1993-2003. This rate
was used for both foreign and local cost components because local cost fluctuations parallel US
dollar cost fluctuations.
3.3       Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at about US$42.9
million, including contingencies. Based on Bank experience with similar projects in the region,
the foreign exchange component for the major categories was estimated as follows: (i) civil
works--30 percent; (ii) medical and non-medical equipment--60 percent; (ii) management
information systems equipment-- 100 percent; (iv) training--0 percent; (v) consulting services--50
percent; (vi) operating costs--0 percent; consumable materials--0 percent; and maintenance--0
percent.



31
Table 3-1. Project Cost Sunmary by Component
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign      Total   % of Total
Base Costs
Component A - Policy Anablsis and Reforn
Hospital Autonomy                               0.2       0.1           0.3           -
Rationalization of Service Delivery             0.4       0.2           0.6           1
Models
Improved Health Financing                        1.2      1.1           2.3           2
Strategic Image Management                      0.7       0.4           1.1           1
Other Initiatives                               0.1       0.1           0.2           -
Subtotal                                   2.6       1.9          4.5            5
Component B - Institunonal Development
Management Training Program                     3.8       0.2           4.0           4
State Management Systems                        5.0       3.8           8.9           9
Institutional Development Support Fund          3.4       2.5           5.9           6
Project Management                              2.5       2.5           4.9           5
Subtotal                                 14.7       9.0          23.7          25
Component C - Strengthening of Health Service Delivery
Hospital Rehabilitation and Equipment          23.5       12.9         36.4          39
Clinic Rehabilitation and Equipment            16.3       13.2         29.6          31
Subtotal                                 39.8      26.1          66.0          70
Base Cost                                      57.1      37.1          94.2         100
Physical Contingencies                          4.1       3.1           7.2           8
Price Contingencies                             3.9       2.7           6.6           7
Total Project Cost                             65.1      42.9         108.0         115
(including contingencies)



32
Table 3.2: Project Cost Sunmary by Summary Accounts
(USS Million)
% Foreign   % Total
Exchange     Base
Costs
Local  Foreign   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Work                 12.9      5.6   18.5        30         20
B. Medical/ Non-Medical Equ.    12.9    19.4   32.3       60         34
C. Equipment (computers)       -        2.5    2.5        100         3
D. Training                    8.4       -      8.4        -          9
E. Consulting Services         9.6      9.6   19.2        50         20
Total Investment Cost         43.8     37.1   80.9        46          86
II.Recurrent Cost
A. Operating Costs             3.2       -      3.2        -          4
B. Consumable Materials        0.3       -      0.3        -          -
C. Maintenance                 9.8       -      9.8        -          10
Total Recurrent Cost          13.3       -     13.3        -          14
TOTAL BASELINE COST             57.1     37.1   94.2        39         100
Physical Contingencies         4.1      3.1    7.2        43          8
Price Contingencies            3.9      2.7    6.6        41          7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             65.1     42.9  108.0        40         115
Table 3-3. Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source of Funds    Local    Foreign      Taxes      Total   % Total
World Bank          11.1        42.9       0.0       54.0        50
GOV (MSAS           54.0         0.0       0.0      54.0         50
and States)
Total               65.1        42.9       0.0      108.0       100



33
Tabk 3-4. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method                   Non-Bank
Financed       Total
International    Local
Project Element            Compettive   Competitive
Bidding     Bidding       Other
A. Civil Work                  8.7         7.9,,        5.1                        21.7
(5.2)       (4.7)        (3.1)                     (13.0)
B. Medical & Non-Medical
Equipment and Vehicles      26.9         10.5         1.021                      38.4
(16.1)      (6.4)         (0.6)                     (23.1)
C. MIS Equipment               2.6                                                 2.6
(2.6)                                               (2.6)
D. Training                                             9.2                        9.2
(4.6)                     (4.6)
E. Consulting Services                                  21.3                       21.3
(10.6)                    (10.6)
F. Operations                                                         3.6          3.6
G. Consumable materials                                               0.3          0.3
H. Maintenance                                                       10.9          10.9
Total                       38.2         18.4         36.6         14.8         108.0
(24.0)      (11.1)       (18.1)                     (54.0)
"Shopping and direct contracting
2, Shopping
B. Financing
3.4        The proposed Bank loan is US$54.0 million (50 percent of total estimated cost).
The Bank will finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 17 percent of local
expenditures. The financing of local costs under the project is justified because of the project's
poverty focus. The Bank's support for local costs will be in the categories of civil works and
equipment. For civil works, this will facilitate the financing of large multi-year contracts. For
equipment, it will facilitate the financing of large procurement contracts and thereby promote
greater economy. The financing plan is presented in Table 3.3. Venezuelan counterpart funding
requirements would be met by the Government of Venezuela; of this, state governments would
provide 25 percent of the cost of works and medical and non-medical equipment they receive.



34
3.5       Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent costs will be for continued operation and
maintenance of the computer information systems, the improved waste management systems and
the rehabilitated physical plant and equipment in health facilities. Since the rehabilitation and
equipment will in large part replace existing plant and equipment, recurrent costs theoretically
should not increase. Nonetheless, because the existing plant and equipment are often not fully
functional or budgeted for full capacity, in practice, the increment in productivity is expected
to generate recurrent costs for supplies, operation and maintenance. The incremental annual
recurrent expenditures required when the project is in full operation are likely to be $1 million
(approximately US$225,000 for supplies and maintenance of the computer information system;
US$400,000 for maintenance of plant and equipment; and US$375,000 for operating costs for
improved waste management). Any increases in operating costs due to the production of a higher
volume of services would be additional to this estimated amount. The recurrent costs would be
financed entirely by the Govemment of Venezuela. This will be monitored through the
disbursement tracking system and examined during annual reviews.
C. Procurement
3.6       The Govemment would follow Bank procurement guidelines and procedures for the
proposed project. The procurement law of Venezuela (Ley de Licitaciones, August 1990)
provides a waiver for all contracts (civil works, goods and services) in projects funded by
intemational financing agencies and guarantees that their respective procurement guidelines can
be applied.
3.7       Civil works would account for about 20 percent of total project costs; medical and
non-medical equipment, furniture and vehicles about 36 percent; management information
systems equipment about 2 percent; training about 8 percent and consulting services about 20
percent. Operating and maintenance costs, at 13 percent combined, would comprise the balance
of project expenditures. The estimated project cost breakdown by procurement method is
presented in Table 3.4 above. The project will use Standard Bidding Documents issued by the
Bank for: (a) procurement of goods; (b) procurement of works; (c) procurement of works
(smaller contracts); and (d) large consulting services. Draft standard bidding documents for
management information systems will be used. For individual or other small consulting
contracts, sample Bank documents will be used.
3.8       Civil Works. The project will finance the physical rehabilitation of 4 hospitals and
427 ambulatory clinics for a total cost of US$21.7 million, or 20 percent of project costs
including contingencies. The average unit cost of civil works for an ambulatory clinic is
estimated at US$19,500 and the average unit cost of civil works for a hospital is estimated at
US$3.35 million. Because the hospitals are located in different states, each will be packaged
and bid separately. The estimated costs of rehabilitation in ambulatory clinics varies by type
(ARI--$4,000; ARII--$44,000; AUI--$23,000; and AUII--$81,000). The civil works costs for
the four hospitals vary by state (base costs are US$1.7 million in Zulia; US$1.9 million in



35
Falc6n; US$3.2 million in Trujillo; and US$5.5 million in Aragua). Civil works would be
procured by the states. Contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$3 million would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. It
is expected that no more than 2 contracts with an aggregate value of about US$ 8.7 million
would fall into this category. Contracts for civil works costing between US$50,000 and US$3
million will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank, nationally advertised to ensure adequate competition. International bidders would be
allowed to participate in the bids, and this would be explicitly stated in the General Procurement
Notice which will be published internationally after negotiations. It is expected that up to 10
contracts with an aggregate value of about US$7.9 million would fall into this category. Works
estimated to cost between US$10,000 and US$50,000 would be procured through comparison
of at least three price quotations. It is estimated that up to 240 contracts with an aggregate value
of US$4.3 million would fall into this category. Works with an estimated cost under US$10,000
would be procured via direct contracting and paid from the Special Account. Whenever
possible, these works will be contracted with the community through arrangements where the
project will finance materials and skilled labor and the community will supply unskilled labor.
The procedures for community execution of small civil works win be incorporated into the
project operating manual to be presented for effectiveness (para. 6.2.e). It is estimated that
up to 90 contracts with an aggregate value of US$800,000 would be procured via this
mechanism. Wherever possible, small rehabilitation works in ambulatory clinics will be grouped
into bidding packages of at least US$50,000 total cost in order to simplify procurement. Direct
contracting would be minimized by packaging small works together whenever interest exists in
the local construction industry. Since all civil works are for rehabilitation, no land will need
to be acquired. Clear title to land and building will be required prior to proceeding with civil
works in all facilities.
3.9       Medical and Non-Medical Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles. The project will
finance medical and non-medical equipment, furniture and vehicles for approximately 4 hospitals
and 427 ambulatory clinics. The average cost of equipment for hospitals will be US$4.5
million. For ambulatory clinics, the average will be US$49,000. Contracts estimated to cost
more than US$200,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of ICB. It is expected that
equipment costing a total of US$26.9 million (70 percent of all medical and mon-medical
equipment to be procured under the project) would be procured in this manner. Contracts
between US$25,000 and US$200,000 equivalent, with an aggregate value of US$10.5 million,
would be procured in accordance with LCB procedures nationally advertised and satisfactory to
the Bank. Contracts for equipment costing less than US$25,000 would be procured through
comparison of at least 3 price quotations (local or international) up to an aggregate total of US$
1.0 million.
3.10      Computer Hardware, Software and Support.  The project will finance
procurement of hardware, software, installation, communications, training, user support and
consumable materials for the introduction of a management information system in up to 25
hospitals, 4 regional health directorates and 20 health districts. These items are expected to cost
US$ 3.1 million total. Because of the high level of coordination required among these various



36
elements to ensure a functional management information system, the hardware, software,
installation, training and support services will be procured in single packages to meet annual
requirements. In this way, the provider will have control and responsibility for all elements
required for the management information system. Procurement will be carried out in a two-step
process under ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank. As a first step, technical aspects of
proposals would be evaluated on the basis of pre-established criteria of acceptability (without
regard to price considerations). Software will be based on ready-made packages which are being
used successfully in other health systems and facilities. Computer programs would be developed
only if international bidding were declared vacant. The detailed requirements of final users
would be the fundamental basis for bidding. The supplier would be required to train users in
the system.
3.11      Some of the evaluation criteria which would likely be used are: (a) the proposed
software can be used in a wide variety of hardware; (b) the software has user friendly menus;
and (c) the system has different levels of access security and control. Proposals meeting all
technical requirements would be accepted and bidders would be requested to make any
modifications necessary to meet project demands. Those not meeting them would be rejected.
In the second stage all technical proposals which are modified to meet project demands would
be evaluated on the basis of price and the contract would be awarded for the lowest cost
acceptable proposal.
3.12      Consulting Services. Consulting services would be procured in accordance with
World Bank guidelines for consultants. These services, which include technical assistance,
studies, training, architectural designs and construction supervision, are estimated to cost an
aggregate of US$ 21.3 million.  International consultants would not be subject to prior
registration as a condition of eligibility in the selection process. However, registration would
be a pre-condition of awarding of contract. It is expected that 50 percent of technical assistance
would be procured from firms in packages of between US$250,000 and US$2.0 million. All
single source consulting contracts would be subject to prior Bank review of terms of reference,
qualifications and contract terms. All other individual consultant contracts valued at more than
US$20,000, all consultant contracts deemed critical to project success regardless of value, and
all other contracts with firms valued at more than US$100,000 would require prior review.
3.13      Training. Training would be procured as local consulting services. Training
providers would be responsible for providing manuals, materials, travel and per diem.
3.14      Margin of Preference. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids for
goods under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be granted a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of the C.I.F. price
at port of entry, whichever is lower.
3.15      Procurement Review.  The Bank will conduct prior review and approve all
procurement documentation for works and equipment to be procured through ICB. The Bank
will also conduct prior review and approve the first two LCB procurement documents for civil



37
works and the first two LCB procurement documents for goods. The terms of reference for the
first supervision mission will include a review of local shopping contracts for works.
3.16      Management of Procurement. As executing agency, the Project Coordination Unit
will oversee procurement of all goods and services to ensure timeliness and efficiency. The
PCU will be responsible for ensuring that states have adequate technical assistance in
procurement. The project operating manual will describe procurement procedures in detail and
will provide standard bidding documents and evaluation guidelines to be used in the procurement
of civil works, goods and services. The Project Coordination Unit also would ensure that the
aggregate totals for local and international shopping and local competitive bidding are not
exceeded. The Bank will arrange to train PCU and DRS staff on Bank procurement procedures
through a project launch workshop and specialized training.
3.17      Procurement Agents. The Government has decided to hire a procurement agent
for all goods and services, except: (a) the consulting services for the management training
program, the institutional development fund and project management in the Institutional
Development component and (b) the civil works and associated consulting services under the
Strengthening Health Service Delivery component. The loan would finance the fee of the
procurement agent (up to a maximum of three percent of the value of the goods and services
provided). The signing of procurement service agreements between the Government and
the procurement agents for the goods and services for the Policy Analysis and Reform
component and for Management Systems under the Institutional Development Component
would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.2.d). The Government is assessing which agency
would be the most suitable procurement agent for the consulting services for the management
training program of the Institutional Development component. The loan would finance the
agency's administration fee, up to a maximum of 3 percent of the value of the training services
procured. Project management staff at the central level would be hired by the Ministry of
Health.
Tabk 3-5. Loan Disbursement Scheduk
(US$ millon)
IBRD         FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98   FY99    FY2000
Annual         1.5    6.2   11.2   15.2   14.3       5.6
Cumulative     1.5    7.7   18.9   34.1   48.4      54.0



38
Table 3-6. Disbursement by Category
(US$ million)
Category                                    Amount   Disbursement Rate
Civil Works                                    11.9        60%
Medical and Non-Medical Equipment              21.0        60%
(100% foreign)
Computer Equipment                              2.5       100%
Training                                        4.4        50%
Consulting services                            10.1        50%
(100% foreign)
Unallocated                                     4.1
Total                                          54.0
3.18       State Procurement. Consulting services for civil works design and institutional
development activities would be procured directly by the states, as would civil works. States
may opt to enter into financial trust management agreements (convenios de.fideicomiso) with
commercial banks to operate project funds. In this event, the loan would finance the fee of the
commercial bank (up to a maximum of 1.5 percent of the value of the funds disbursed).
D. Disbursements
3.19       The proposed Bank loan of US$54.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of five years (see Table 3.5 for the Disbursement Forecast), an accelerated projection
based on disbursement profiles for recent PHN projects in the department. The disbursement
profile reflects the procurement in the early stages of implementation of medical and non-medical
equipment and the information system. Civil works also would be procured early in the project
but disbursed throughout project implementation. The Project Completion Date will be June 30,
2000, and the Project Closing Date will be December 31, 2000.
3.20       Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditures:
(i)  civil works--60 percent of total expenditures;
(ii)  medical, non-medical equipment, furniture and vehicles--60 percent of total
expenditures (100% foreign);



39
(iii) management information system equipment and services--100 percent of total
expenditures;
(iv) training--50 percent of total expenditures; and
(v) consulting services--50 percent of total expenditures (100 percent of foreign
expenditures).
In addition to these categories, an amount up to US$2 million would be disbursed
into the Special Account to be established in the Central Bank. The initial deposit would be up
to US$1.0 million. Subsequent replenishments would also be up to US$ 1.0 million until
aggregate withdrawals equal at least US$ 10 million. The project would provide up to US$1.0
million equivalent as reimbursement of eligible project expenditures retroactive to July 11, 1994.
This financing would support the Government's efforts to lay the groundwork for project
execution through consultancies and training seminars. The categories of operating costs,
supplies and maintenance would be financed entirely by the Government of Venezuela.
3.21      Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for works with a
contract value of US$500,000 or more, goods with a contract value of US$200,000 or more and
services with a contract value of US$20,000 or more for individuals and US$100,000 or more
for firms would be supported by full documentation. Contracts below these thresholds and other
disbursements against activities not undertaken by contract would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), for which supporting documentation would be consolidated
and maintained in the PCU of the Ministry of Health and would be made available for Bank staff
review. The PCU will adopt the computerized disbursement tracking system developed for the
Endemic Disease Control Project with modifications to track government as well as Bank
disbursements.
3.22      As conditions of disbursement: (a) no withdrawals shall be made for
expenditures under the project unless the expenditures are included in an annual plan
approved by the Bank; (b) no withdrawals shall be made for any expenditures in a state
until the state has signed a participation agreement with the MSAS, including a clause
whereby the state would agree to allocate adequate resources for material and maintenance
expenditures according to a program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; (c) no
withdrawals shall be made for state-executed complementary training, civil works or
equipment until the state has entered into a Decentralization Agreement (Convenio de
Descentralizacidn) regarding the transfer of health services in the state under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (d) no withdrawals shall be made for state-executed
civil works or equipment expenditures in a state until the Bank has received a time bound
program, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the transfer of health services, including
health personnel, budgetary resources and property (bienes) (para. 6.3.b).



40
E. Accounts and Audits
3.23      Accounts. A Special Account in US dollars would be opened at the Central Bank,
with an authorized allocation of up to US$2 million, corresponding to about four months of
project expenditures in the early years of implementation. The operating procedures for the
Special Account will be part of the project operating manual (para. 6.2.b). In addition, the
executing agencies of the MSAS and the states of Falc6n, Aragua, Trujillo and Zulia will keep
separate project accounts in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures.
The accounting records would show expenditures by date, currency, financing source (World
Bank, central government, state government), category of expenditure and project component
and subcomponent.
3.24      Audits. The PCU of the Ministry of Health would prepare annually consolidated
financial statements, audited Special Account statements and audited SOEs using external
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would review the external auditors' terms of
reference. The PCU would require each implementing agency to engage external auditors
satisfactory to the PCU and the Bank to audit their accounts on an annual basis. The PCU
would review the audits of each agency and report to the Bank status and actions. Audit reports
for the PCU and all executing agencies would be presented to the Bank annually no later than
June 30, beginning in 1996. During negotiations, the project auditing arrangements will be
discussed and agreed (para. 6.3.d).



IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.1       Project Coordinating Unit. At the national level, the project would be managed
by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of the MSAS that has been entrusted with overseeing all
special projects in the sector, including both World Bank and IDB-supported operations. The
PCU would handle overall planning, monitoring, and resolution of major implementation
problems for both the World Bank and IDB-funded projects. It would report to the lending
agencies and process loan reimbursements. It would be responsible for implementing the Policy
Analysis and Reform component. MSAS counterparts for policy studies would come from the
relevant headquarters departments, e.g., from the finance and administration department for the
health financing study and from the medical services department for the service delivery study.
4.2       The PCU would consolidate the states' annual operating plans. It would prepare the
annual budget and coordinate the use of MSAS resources. It would manage the selection and
contracting of consultants and the procurement of goods for the policy analysis and reform
component. The PCU would maintain a system for disbursement control to provide adequate
monitoring and control of disbursements.
4.3       The PCU would have a general coordinator and an administrative and a technical
manager (gerente de progranas y gerente tecnica). The technical manager would oversee three
supervisors responsible for policy analysis and reform, institutional development, and
strengthening of health service delivery. The administrative management unit (gerencia de
programas) would manage budgeting, disbursements, audit, procurement agreements and any
bank trust agreements. Since most implementation would be undertaken by existing MSAS
departments and the state health directorates, the PCU would remain a small but dynamic unit;
it would contain about 10 professional staff to discharge its responsibilities. During negotiations,
the draft terms of reference and the necessary qualifications for the national supervisor of each
of the three components were presented to the Bank. These terms of reference and necessary
qualifications are being finalized, taking the Bank's comments into account. Evidence of the
formal establishment of the PCU and the appointment of these three staff, with
qualifications acceptable to the World Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (para.
6.2.a).
4.4       State Project Teams. At state level, each state health directorate would hire or
appoint a coordinator and other staff required to coordinate the implementation of the
Institutional Development and the Strengthening of Health Service Delivery components. The
project team would be responsible for: (a) preparing annual plans, including proposals for the
fund (described below); (b) recruiting and managing consultants; (c) monitoring implementation
of all state-level activities, including training and improvements to hospitals and ambulatory
clinics; and (d) reporting semi-annually to the PCU. The team would also be responsible for
coordinating the provision of local counterpart funds and for representing the project to the state
government and local communities. The upgrading of hospitals and clinics would be done by
private architects and contractors, who would be supervised by the civil works office of the state
government. The government has hired the national coordinator and state coordinators for



42
Falc6n and Aragua with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. Prior to
disbursement for the other states, they would have to furnish the same.
4.5       Project Committees. A steering committee composed of the Minister of Health and
the state Governors would review and approve annual plans and budgets. The PCU would
prepare the agenda and consolidate the annual plans and progress reports for the steering
committee meetings, which would take place twice a year.
4.6       An operational committee composed of the Coordinator of the PCU and the Regional
Directors of Health of the project states would monitor the overall progress of the
implementation of the project. At negotiations it was agreed that this committee would be
established by the Ministry of Health as a condition of effectiveness.
4.7       The project would draw upon the expertise of ad hoc technical committees which
would be established by the Minister of Health and would assist as needs emerge. Technical
committees are foreseen for training, human resources, restructuring of the central ministry,
epidemiology, informatics and infrastructure rehabilitation.
4.8       Project Operating Manual. The MSAS has developed a Project Operating Manual
(ROP), which spells out in detail: (a) the structure of the PCU; (b) MSAS and state
implementation responsibilities; (c) procedures for the fund; (d) the flow of funds; and (e)
procedures for annual planning, budgeting, and procurement, among other things. It also
presents the organization, functions and procedures of the PCU and the state teams, and explains
procedures for travel and per diem. The Bank reviewed with the Government a draft version
of this manual at negotiations. It was agreed that the Government would present the Bank
with the rmal version for effectiveness (para. 6.2.e).
4.9       Policy Initiatives Fund. The Government is currently defining the selection criteria
and approval process for administering the resources under the policy initiatives activity of the
first component. Terms of reference would be developed for these activities by the Vice
Minister's Office or the Strategic Planning Office. These would be submitted to the Project
Coordination Unit with the approval of the Minister. The Bank would provide its no objection,
preferably during annual project reviews. Activities in this area would be supervised by the
requesting unit of the Ministry. The Project Coordination Unit would handle administrative
matters.
4.10      Training. The Government is currently assessing the qualifications of several
agencies to manage the execution of the basic training program. The agency chosen would be
responsible to: a) define course contents in detail; b) select institution/s to teach the courses;
c) contract courses and administer funds; d) select participants presented by the DRS, according
to criteria explained in Annex V; and e) monitor the program, in close cooperation with the
Regional DRS. This agency will be contracted annually and its performance will evaluated by
the PCU. The criteria for selection of this agency were agreed at negotiations. An independent
consulting firm will conduct annual evaluations of the training program.



43
4.11      Each year, the four DRS will present a prospective plan to the PCU for advanced
training, including proposed course content, timetable, number of participants and teaching
arrangements. The training unit of the DRS will coordinate and supervise the training program
and evaluate the performance of trainers. The PCU would monitor and evaluate prior year
performance during the review of funding requests for the following year.
4.12      Management Systems. The MSAS will set up the Interstate Committee with
representatives of the regional health directorates, relevant MSAS units and the PCU, which
would ensure consistency in the design and implementation of the management systems among
the states and between the states and the central MSAS. The committee will have technical sub-
committees to define the final versions of the terms of references for development of the systems
and monitor and evaluate implementation. The four states have requested the PCU to coordinate
the committee's work as executive secretary. The operating procedures for this committee
will be incorporated into the project operating manual to be presented for effectiveness
(para 6.2.e.).
4.13      State Support Fund. State-executed subcomponents would be operated via a fund.
These are: (a) institutional development activities; (b) complementary training which states wish
to organize after completing the basic training; and (c) clinic and hospital rehabilitation and
equipment projects. States would be eligible to apply for resources from the fund only after
preparing a state health plan acceptable to the PCU and the Bank. Annual disbursements from
the fund would be based on the presentation of proposals by the states. States would have the
right to present proposals based on their satisfactory compliance with the prior year project
activities and progress on the action plan. Annual plans would be approved by the PCU and
agreed with the Bank during annual reviews. Resources from the fund will be authorized by the
PCU on an annual basis. Rehabilitation works which are expected to take more than one year
to complete will be approved for the entire duration. Only the first year investments in
rehabilitation for Falc6n have been pre-approved for project support.
4.14      On an annual basis following the introduction of management systems, each of the
four states will be eligible to propose strategic subprojects for project support. These proposals
would be reviewed by the Fund's board, composed of representatives from MSAS and each of
the states.  Proposals meeting the agreed criteria (non-overlap with activities in the core
program; consistency with institutional development objectives; accurate cost estimates; coherent
and feasible plan for evaluation) would be approved by the board. Detailed selection criteria can
be found in Annex V. Fund resources could be used for consulting services, training, and minor
items of associated equipment. Each of the four states would be eligible for an equal share of
this fund, but final allocations would vary based on the quality of proposals submitted. The
agreed operating procedures and proposal review criteria for the fund will constitute part
of the project operating manual (para. 6.2.e).
4.15      The PCU would provide the technical backup to the Interstate Committee which
would approve state proposals for use of the fund. This committee would be chaired by MSAS
and composed of two senior representatives of MSAS and a representative from each of the four



44
states. It would meet once a year to review annual plans from the states and at least on one
other occasion each year to assess implementation performance.
4.16      Project Reviews. The Government and the Bank will conduct joint annual reviews
by each March beginning in 1995, of progress on project implementation, proposed activities
and budgets for the following year and the action plan. During these reviews, the Bank and the
Government would agree upon annual state plans for complementary training, institutional
development activities and hospital and clinic rehabilitation and equipment. Only those activities
in the approved plans would be eligible for project financing. An interim project review would
be carried out in January 1996, upon completion of the first phase of the policy studies, to agree
upon the policy recommendations to be pursued in phase II and introduced on a pilot basis in
the project states. Following one year of implementation of the pilot experiments, in April
1997, the Government would propose an action plan for reform in the organization and financing
of health services in the four project states. This would form the basis for the second project
review by June 1997. If for either Zulia or Trujillo, the effective transfer of authority to
manage health services has not taken place and/or a participation agreement has not been
executed by that time, then the state will be excluded from the project. At the time of this joint
review, the Government would discuss with the Bank the options of substituting another
decentralized state or reducing the size of the project. The approved action plan would
determine the specific activities eligible for financing under the State Support Fund. Subsequent
annual reviews would assess progress on the action plan. For a preliminary presentation of
proposed project monitoring and evaluation indicators, see Annex IV.
4.17      Flow of Funds to States. The participating states will receive funds through the
mechanism explained in paragraph 4.12 above to execute the complementary management
training program, institutional development activities and the civil works under the Strengthening
of Health Service Delivery component. These funds will be transferred from the Ministry of
Health to the states on the basis of approved annual plans. States may opt to enter into trust
agreements with banks for management of these funds. In that case, the approved annual plan
would be used by the bank as a guideline for authorizing payments. States would request the
bank to make payments directly to suppliers and consultants on the basis of this annual plan.
The central government is seeking a counterpart contribution from the states equal to a share of
the value of civil works and equipment. States would deposit their contributions into trust
accounts. On receiving evidence of the state deposit, the central Ministry would deposit its
counterpart contribution in a separate trust account. States would receive Bank loan proceeds
only as reimbursement for expenditures previously made.



V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1        The project is expected to contribute to important gains in the health status of the
3 million users of government health services in of the four states. The project would also
generate benefits in terms of higher quality and greater internal efficiency of hospital and clinic
services. Improvements would be measured through a limited number of carefully chosen
"sentinel' indicators, including the level of nocosomial infection in hospitals and the average
patient length of stay and bed occupancy rate in selected hospitals. Finally, Venezuela would
benefit from the development of health policy analysis skills in MSAS and from increased
capacity to plan and manage health services at the state and health district levels. This capacity-
building effort would be measured most directly by monitoring the training, technical assistance,
and organizational development activities under the project.
B. Project Risks
5.2        The project responds to a broadly acknowledged crisis in government health
services. Its design is based on a consensus in the sector that only by strengthening institutions
and introducing reforms will needed improvements in infrastructure and equipment have a
sustainable impact on quality and efficiency. The strategy hinges on starting small and
expanding based on experience; it combines direct investments with technical assistance and
studies which lay the groundwork for fundamental reform.
5.3        The project faces two principal risks. The first is that the decentralization of health
will slow down or stall because of the lack of financing for accumulated personnel benefits or
opposition from centralist politicians or groups that have an interest in maintaining the status quo
(especially unions representing public sector health workers and central MSAS officials). This
risk would be minimized by working with only four states which are leading the decentralization
process and by insisting on a timetable for transfer to the states of decision-making authority and
budget resources as a condition of disbursement for the rehabilitation component. In addition,
the project would allow for substitution of other states if any of the four originally selected no
longer has a reasonable chance of completing the transfer during the project execution period.
The project would also finance a communications program to inform public opinion and increase
support for sector reform. The second risk is that weak public sector capacity at central and
state levels will retard project execution. This risk would be mitigated by working with states
which have the strongest political backing for decentralization; by training staff for their
increased responsibilities; and by relying heavily on the private sector for a wide range of
services (architectural, construction, training, management consulting) under the project.



46
C. Environmental Aspects
5.4       This project has been granted an environmental assessment category B. The project
will have a beneficial impact on the environment in three ways. First, the project will introduce
substantial improvements in the handling of hospital and clinic waste and will correct current
practices of releasing laboratory chemicals, other toxic materials and organic waste into
municipal refuse systems. Venezuela has introduced legislation on hospital and clinic waste
management with technically sound guidelines. The project will finance the civil works,
equipment, materials, training and operating costs necessary to implement these.  All
rehabilitation works will include waste management measures.
5.5        The second way in which the project will contribute to improving the environment
will be by replacing outdated, inefficient equipment manufactured an estimated 20 years ago with
equipment designed in an age of greater environmental awareness. In addition, in the review
of proposed equipment procurement lists, the Bank will ensure that environmental impact is
considered in the selection among alternative technologies. The Bank will encourage the
selection and financing of equipment with lower power consumption requirements, better safety
features and greater use of less toxic consumable materials.
5.6       The project will also have a favorable environmental impact through the
rehabilitation of civil works, where malfunctioning or inoperative basic systems for water,
electricity and air conditioning will be repaired and/or replaced. This is expected to improve
water quality and reduce environmental pollution. All demolition work for the physical
rehabilitation will be carried out using measures to mitigate the impact of asbestos release. This
requirement will be specified in the bidding documents for works.
5.7       High quality environmental assessment skills are available locally for hospital waste
management, water quality and control of asbestos release. International capability would need
to be employed in the review of environmental considerations in equipment selection.



VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(a) by January 15, 1996, review with the Bank the results of the first phase of
three health policy studies (financing, service delivery model, autonomy) and
agree on phase II pilot experiments for testing proposed reforms (para. 2.13,
4.15);
(b) conduct with the Bank annually from March 31, 1995, joint reviews of
progress on project implementation, annual implementation plans with
proposed activities and budgets for the following year, and the action plan
for reform in the organization and financing of health services (para. 4.15);
(c) by June 30, 1997, based on the experience of the phase II pilots, agree with
the Bank on an action plan of reforms in the organization and financing of
Government health services in the four project states (para. 2.13); and
(d) implement satisfactory annual project auditing arrangements (para. 3.24).
(e) by February 28 of each year beginning in 1995, submit to the Bank progress
reports on project implementation and a proposed annual investment program
for the project including an implementation schedule and budget.
(f) maintain the PCU with staffing and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
ensure that the Project Steering Committee reviews and approves the
proposed annual investment programs, and ensure that the Project
Operational Committee monitors the overall implementation of the project
(para. 4.3, 4.5, 4.6).
6.2       As Conditions of Effectiveness, evidence will be provided that:
(a) the PCU has been formally established and the national supervisors of the
three components have been appointed with terms of reference and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.3);



48
(b) the legal and operational transfer of health services, including personnel,
budget and property, from MSAS to the states of Falc6n and Aragua has
taken place (para. 2.3);
(c) the Government has signed participation agreements satisfactory to the Bank
with the states of Falcon and Aragua and each of such states has employed a
coordinator to manage project activities under the responsibility of the
respective state (para. 3.17);
(d) the Government has signed an agreement with a procurement agent to assist
in the procurement of goods and services for the Policy Analysis and Reform
component and for the Management Systems under the Institutional
Development component (para. 3.17);
(e) the final version of the project operating manual acceptable to the Bank has
been approved (para. 4.7); and
(f) the operational Committee has been formally established.
6.3       As Conditions of Disbursement, evidence will be provided that:
(a) for disbursements in a project state or for the benefit of a project state, the
expenditures are included in an annual plan approved by the Bank (para
3.22);
(b) for disbursements in a project state or for the benefit of a project state, the
state has signed a participation agreement with the Ministry of Health,
including a clause whereby the state would agree to allocate adequate
resources for material and maintenance expenditures according to a program
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank (para 3.22);
(c) for disbursements in a project state for expenditures for complementary
training, civil works or equipment, the state has signed a Decentralization
Agreement (Convenio de Descentralizaci6n) regarding the transfer of health
services under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22);
(d) for state-executed civil works and equipment expenditures in any project
state, a time-bound program for transfer of health services from MSAS to
the state, acceptable to the Bank, has been prepared (para. 3.22);
(e) for disbursements for basic management training, the Government has signed
an agreement with a procurement agent to assist in the procurement of
services;



49
(f) for disbursements in project state for equipment under the Strengthening of
Health Services Delivery component, the state has signed an agreement with
a procurement agent to assist in the procurement of goods; and
(g) for disbursements in the state of Trujillo or Zulia after June 30, 1997, the
state has signed both a participation agreement and a Decentralization
Agreement with the Ministry of Health, and a timebound program for
transfer of health services from MSAS to the state has been prepared.
B. Recommendation
6.4       With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis
for a Bank loan to the Government of Venezuela of US$54.0 million equivalent for a period
of 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



50
ANNEXES AND TABLES



51                                 ANNEX I
Lessons Learned From Bank Projects
1. Government health policy statement. The Government policy statement should outline
medium-term goals for the sector and the reform program the project supports. Where reform
initiatives depend on recommendations of project-supported studies, the Government's
emerging policy statement can be discussed at a mid-term review. In the Chile Technical
Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project (TAHRP) (Ln. No. 3427-CH, FY92), a
statement on the reorientation of the health care system was a condition of Board presentation.
Following completion of major policy studies, the Ministry of Health drafted a health sector
policy letter which was the basis for a mid-term review. In the Mexico Basic Health Project
(Ln. No. 3272-MX, FY91), the Government's policy letter and plan of action for the
decentralization of health services to states were conditions of negotiations. In the Bolivia
Integrated Health Development Project (IHDP) (Cr. No. 2092-BO, FY90), a plan of action
including health sector policy, service delivery, and human resources and institutional
development actions was a covenant.
2. Annual reviews. In the Bolivia IHDP, joint annual reviews consider implementation of the
plan of action, the yearly training program and the investment program in the project area.
In the Costa Rica Health Services Reform Project (HSRP) (Ln. No. 3654-CO, FY94), annual
reviews examine the implementation of sector policies and project activities and plans and
budgets for the following year. These reviews provide for modifications in the project design
to adjust to changing circumstances. In the Chile Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP) (Ln.
No. 3527-CH, FY93), annual reviews include an examination of the public sector health
budget. Annual reviews in the Mexico Basic Health Project analyze maintenance plans, human
resource training plans, staffing normalization and plans for institutional development,
decentralization and management information systems.
3. State agreements. In the Chile TAHRP, states entered into subsidiary agreements with the
Ministry of Health for project execution. No disbursements were made to the states prior to
the signing of such agreements. The Ministry of Health (MSAS) signed agreements with
individual states for each hospital rehabilitation subproject. In the follow-on Chile HSRP, the
MSAS signed annual management contracts with states establishing the type and volume of
services to be provided and the level of resources the central government would channel to the
states to finance them. In the Bolivia IHDP, the Ministry of Health signs agreements with the
institutions which administer health districts, spelling out their mutual obligations under the
project.
4. Decentralized execution of civil work. In the Chile TAHRP, based on a favorable assessment
of their capability and experience, states assumed the responsibility for the management of civil
works. State responsibility for parts of project execution provided them with in-service training
for resource allocation decisions. States also executed civil works in the Mexico Basic Health
Project.



52                               ANNEX I
5. Procurement. Venezuela has limited experience with procurement following Bank
guidelines and sometimes has had poor results. The lack of familiarity argues for
training all those involved in procurement decisions, from direct executing agencies
to the central agencies which set procurement policy and regulations. Because past
projects have adopted different mechanisms for handling procurement, it is now
possible to select procurement methods for this project based on the most successful
experiences. For example, procurement through public foundations and UNDP has
been more successful than direct procurement through public administration channels.
6. Community participation. The Government is increasingly searching for ways to
promote community participation in social programs, both to stretch available
resources and to create greater development impact. For example, the Social
Development Project supports multi-household pre-school centers. The community
provides the building and the project contributes materials, supplies and minor
rehabilitation works. Because the communities consider the multi-household centers
as "theirs", they are more likely to supervise and maintain them over time.
Similarly, social funds in Latin America are demonstrating that, with appropriate
technical support, community groups can both contribute labor and monitor
implementation of small works such as ambulatory clinic rehabilitation.
7. Defmed Work Program. In other projects in Venezuela, the components which
have been executed most rapidly and smoothly are those which were most clearly
defined at appraisal. In the Social Development Project, for example, the food
assistance strategy under the primary health care component was quite detailed at
appraisal. This has been carried out more successfully than the relatively less well-
defined training module under the same component. For this reason preparation of
this project has emphasized defining implementation plans and management
arrangements in concrete and specific terms.



53                                    ANNEX II
Table I1. A: 7spes of Gowernmen Health Facilities
Type of Facility   Area Servd                 Staff and Services Offered
Rural AmlIatory
Clinics
Type 1            rural populations < 1,000.  nursing staff, visiting physicians
Type 2            rural populations > 1,000.  physicians, maternity beds
Urban Ambaty
Clinics
Type 1                                      general physician
Type 2                                      general and specialized physicians
Type 3                                      general, specialized physicians and emorgency
services
Hospitals
Type 1            Populations of up to      30 to 60 beds. Center of reference for ambulatory
20,000.                   care, primary and secondary medical attention, lab,
X-ray, pharmacy, anesthesiology, emergency care.
Director is M.D. with experience in public health.
Type 2            Serving populations over    60 to 150 beds. Primary, secondary and some
20,000 with referral      tertiary care. Director is M.D. specialized in public
services for 100,000.     health and assistant directors with training in
epidemiology.
Type 3            Serving populations over    150 to 300 beds. Primary, secondary and tertiary
60,000. Referral hospital   services. Some teaching functions. Director is
for 400,000.              M.D. with degree in public health. Three assistants,
one is administrator.
Type 4            Serving populations over    300 + beds, long term stay units. Primary,
100,000. Referral hospital  secondary and tertiary services. Broad teaching
to area of 1 million.     functions.
Source: Venezueh Health Sector Review, 1993



54                                    ANNEX II
Table II. B.- Activities in MSAS Health Facilities by Level
PRIMARY LEVEL ACTIVITIES
Preventive and Health Promotion activities
 Health Education
* Nurse Home visits
* Social Services activities
* Immunizations
Consultations
*  Mother and Child Care
*  Hygiene of the adult, school and pre-school child
*  Family Medicine and general practice
*  Tuberculosis diagnose and treatment
*  Sexually transmitted diseases
  Dental care
Other activities
* Distribution of food items
* Dental care in schools
* Public health inspection, including animal inspection. Eliniination of animals or animal products
considered potentially dangerous for the population.
SECONDARY LEVEL ACTIV7TIES
Consultations
Medicine
* Internal Medicine specialties
*  Psychiatry
* Dermatology
*  Sexually Transmitted diseases
*  Rehabilitation
* General Practice



55                                    ANNEX II
SurRerv
* General surgery and derived specialties
* E.N.T., Ophthalmology and Odontological Surgery
* Pediatric surgery
* Traumatology and Orthopedics
* Oncology
Others
* Pediatrics
* Odontology
* Casualties
* Nutrition
 Psychology
Diagnostic Services
* Radiology
* General Laboratory
Apart from the above mentioned activities, secondary level facilities deliver also the activities described
for the primary level.
7ER7URY LEVEL ACTiVTES (Hospitalization)
* Medicine
* Surgery
* Pediatrics
* Gynecology
* Obstetrics
* Radiotherapy
Diaenostic Services
* Anatomy-Pathology
Apart from the above mentioned hospitalization activities, tertiary level facilities deliver all the out-
patient, casualties and diagnostic test services described for the secondary level.
Source: Ejecuci6n anual de Actividades MSAS, Oficina Sectorial de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto. Direcci6n
de Planificaci6n y Evaluaci6n. Divisi6n do Planificaci6n



56                               ANNEX HI
The Decentralization Process in the Project States--Stages and Scope
1 The 1987 Organic Law for the National Health System established the Integrated System for
Medical Care (SIAM) to consolidate all health services which operate with at least 50 percent
public resources. The same law stipulated that this system could be "deconcentrated" to states
and/or municipalities, but that assets would remain in the hands of the central government. The
Ministry could transfer competencies or assets only with the approval of Congress.
2 The National Health Law was followed in 1989 by the Decentralization Law which
established, together with subsequent legislation, the legal framework for transferring resources
and competencies from the national to the state government. For decentralization to occur in
the health sector, the decentralization legal framework requires basically four steps: (a) the
elaboration of a program of transfer of competencies from the national and state level; (b) the
approval of such program by the State Legislature and the National Senate; (c) the signing of
a decentralization agreement setting the terms and conditions for implementing the program; and
(d) the effective transfer of the budgetary resources, personnel and assets (land, physical plant
and equipment) to the respective state.
3 Of the four project states, transfer programs have been approved and decentralization
agreements signed for both Aragua and Falc6n. These states are in the process of completing
the effective transfer of competencies as explained below. In the case of Zulia, a transfer
program has been approved and a decentralization agreement is expected to be signed by the end
of 1994. In the case of Trujillo, a transfer program is before the Senate for approval and it is
expected that a decentralization agreement will be signed in mid- 1995.
4 After decentralization occurs, national and state level responsibilities in the health sector are
defined in the respective decentralization agreements and regulation 9 of the Decentralization
Law. The responsibilities of the national level are to establish national health policy and plans,
coordinate relations with international organizations, supervise states in their delivery of health
services, establish policies for human resources, ensure vital records, and to establish norms and
standards for drugs and technology, health facility construction and maintenance, and
occupational health. The responsibilities of the state are to develop state health plans and
programs, allocate resources to finance state health services, operate health facilities, construct
and maintain infrastructure and equipment, procure equipment and supplies, apply national
policies and ensure compliance with national norms.
5 According to the terms of the decentralization agreements for Falc6n and Aragua, the national
government (Ministry of Finance) initially will transfer 40 percent of the accumulated social
benefits of all active personnel to the states. This initial transfer was carried out on June 30,
1994. This is to be followed by a 20 percent additional share annually over the next three years.
The Ministry of Health will transfer its operating budget for health services to the states as well.



57                              ANNEX m
For Aragua and Falc6n, this is to be done by October 30, 1994. Legal title to land, physical
plant and equipment is to be transferred to the states. Where original titles are not available,
replacement titles will be issued. While the transfer of assets is being effected, states will use
them on a free lease basis.
6 To transfer personnel from the Ministry of Health to the state, the Ministry submits a request
to the Central Budget Office of the Ministry of Finance (OCEPRE), which in turn seeks the
approval of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers obtains the approval of the
Congressional Finance Committee and the Congress as a whole. Once Congressional approval
is granted, the Council of Ministers approves the transfer and records its approval in the Official
Gazette.
7 To transfer budgetary resources from the Ministry of Health to the state, the Ministry submits
a request to OCEPRE which then presents it to the Council of Ministers. Once the Council of
Ministers obtains the approval of the Congressional Finance Committee and Congress as a
whole, the Council approves the transfer and indicates this in the Official Gazette. The Ministry
of Finance prepares the order of payment and the Treasury executes the transfer. The laws
governing the transfer of public resources currently do not permit them to be made conditional
upon meeting any requirements. A legal reform would be required to enable the Ministry of
Health to establish resource allocation criteria. The transfer of physical assets is indicated by
the transfer of title and the registration in the public register.
8 Once states receive these resources and competencies, they are free to establish state laws to
transfer competencies and/or resources to municipalities for health services without prior
authorization of the central government.  The legal basis for participation of municipal
governments in the health sector lies in article 36 of the Law of the Municipal Regime which
stipulates that municipalities would collaborate with the states in primary health care and basic
sanitation.
9 Inconsistencies between the Organic Law for the Integrated System of Medical Care of 1987
and the 1989 Decentralization Law and the health decentralization agreements which follow have
not proven problematic in practice. The two jurisprudence principles that special laws take
precedence over general laws and that later laws take precedence over earlier ones support the
decentralization agreements.



58                                      ANNEX III
Tabe Ml A. General Characlteris of Projea Sate
VEMIZUEL4           FALCON             TRUJIULO           ARAGUA               ZULU
Area                  912,050             24,800              7,400              7,014              63,100
(Km2)
Total Population     21,177,149           673,701            544,201           1,306,974          2,676,856
(1994)
Population Density       23                 27                 74                 186                42
(Pop/Km2)
Share National          100%                3%                 3%                 6%                 13%
Population
Municipalities                              21                 14                 15                  17
Health Districts                            6                   5                  5             5 subregions
11 districts
Economic Activity   Miing/Petroleum      Petroklum         Agriculture          Industry          Petrolum
Industry           Services                             Livestock           Livestock
Commeree            Tourism
Serviccs          Livestock
Livestock
Poor Population    7,952,402 (44%)     298,180 (50%)      256,072 (52%)      401,563 (36%)     1,156,280 (52%)
(1990)
Poor Households    1,439,901 (38%)     51,628 (44%)       48,052 (47%)       76,856 (31%)       203,571 (46%)
% Population            76%                52%                41%                91%                82%
Urban (1990)*
*Settlements of 10,000 or more
Source: MSAS Proyecto Salud



59                                    ANNEX m
Table 111 B. Projea States: Urban/Rural Population Mix 1990
Aragua    Percent  Falc6n   Percent  Trujillo   Percent  Zulia     Percent  Venezuela    Perc
No.                  No.              No.                 No.                No.          ent
Total          1120132    100%    599185    100%   493912   100%    2235305  100%           18,105,256   100
Population                                                                                               %
In Areas       1019209    91%      313831      52%   201884   41%        1825542  82%       13,675,206   76%
w/over 10,000
inhabitants
In Areas        42516      4%       91539      15%   103852   21%        151932   7%        1,552,543    9%
between 2500-
10,000
inhabitants
In Areas        58407      5%      193815      32%   188176   38%        257831   12%       2,877,525    16%
w/less than
2500
inhabitants
Source: 1990 Census
Table III C. Major Epidemiological Indicators Project States (1992)
Venezuela  Aragua        Falcon              Trujillo            Zulia
Biirth Rate/1000   31         24             29.6                26.5                31.1
Inhabitants
Maternal Mortality   60       77             36                  22                 45
Rate (Per 100,000
live births)
Infant Mortality   23.2       25.7           18.7                31                  28.2
Rate (Per 1,000
live births)
General Mortality    4.5      4.2*           3.4                 5.7                 4.8
Rate (Per 1,000
Inhabitants)
Source: MSAS Proyecto Salud
*1990



60                                   ANNEX m
Table III D. MSAS Consultations per capita per year in project states
Aragua     Falcon     Trujillo        Zulia    Venezuela
Population                 1,306,974    673,701    544,201     2,676,856    20,900,00
Consutations                 600,000    500,000    370,000      1,121,972    9,646.975
Consultations/capita             0.5        0.7        0.7           0.4          0.5
Source: MSAS
Tabk il E. State Populatdons by Subdivision
Statc        Population   Municipalities  Populationl   Health      Popladionl
Municipaity    Districts    Health District
Falc6n         673,701           21          32,081         6          112,284
Aragus        130,6974           15          87,132         5          261,395
Trujilo        544,201           14          38,872          5         108,840
Zulia        2,676,856           17          157,462        5          535,371
Venezuela    20,900,000
Source: MSAS
Tablk II F. Venezuela AIDS cases by State (6/30/92)
Population               Cases  Cases/100,000
Venezuela             19,734,968               1940        9.8
Foderl District        3,783,283               1216       32.1
of Caracas
Rest of the           15,951,685                724        4.5
Country
Aragua                 1,332,888                96         7.2
Zulia                  2,204,840                101        4.6
Trujillo                 552,788                 17        3.1
FaIcdn                  634,489                   5        0.8
Source: MSAS Memoria y Cuenta 1992



61                                         ANNEX m
Table 3. G: National and State Responsibilitiesfor Health as Indicated in Aragua Decentralization Agreement
Functional Area      Ministry of Health                                  State of Amgua
International        Relation and coordination with international        right of acces to resources from international
relations            organizations, including bilateral and multilatcral  agreemnts oriented to developing health programs for
agreements                                         stat
Planning             national policies, plans and featurms                tate plars and programs
present to Ministry of Health by March 5 of each year
annual operating pln and budget for following year
general and technical norms
Finance              consolidation of health budget at national level    collct and assign resourecs to finance health srvices
in atate
ensurm equitable distribution of resources among states   promote administrative autonomy of health care
to promote development                              facilities and the development of Local Health
Systems (SILOS)
advise state as requeted in budget and program
formulation
Oversight            coordination, advice, assessment and supervision of
stat health system
supervision and assasment of policies and activities
executed by services transferrod to state
norms for organization, planning, assessment of units,
actions, and activities of state health system
Human rcources      national policies for human resource instruction and  application of instruction and training policies
training
integrated management of human resources of state
sponsor, advise human resource training progrms for   health system
state health sector personnel
norms for registration and control of medical and   registration of professional titles, diplomas and
paramedical profcesional titles and for inspection and    licenses
monitoring of any profession or activity related to
health srvices
retain personal who are rctired, in process of retiring,   employ active personncl as listed in agreement annex
permanently disabled, seconded, serving outside the  in same conditions existing at transfer according to
state or on medical leave                           collective contracts noted in agreement annex



62                                          ANNEX IH
Table 3. G: National and State Responsibilities for Health as Indicated in Aragua Decentralization Agreement
Health information    register of population served (in conjunction with    state health indicators
state)
indicators of service provision and health status to
complement register of population served
Health information    statistical vital and health information system as
(cont.)               assessment tool for program implementation, impact
and for design of new regional, national and
institutional policies.
design of formats and reporting periods to ensure
uniformity at national level and submission by states
Direct execution      research and health control, national health campaigns   pre- and post-hospitalization activity
(in coordination with state)                         administration of child care facilities associated with
regional health system
Environmental         environmental health inspection                       supervision, assessment and participation in programs
protection                                                                  and activities related to environmental sanitation
norms for protection during industrialization and
development related to agriculture, animal husbandry,
urbanization and tourism
Health facilities     policies and norms for construction and maintenance
of infrastructure and installations of health facilities
advise and approve construction, renovation or
expansion projects for health facilities on basis of
needs reflected in state annual operating plan
policies and norms for organization, classification and    registration, inspoction and monitoring of health
accreditation of health facilities                    service institutes
construction and maintenance of health facilities which   construction and maintenance of infrastructure,
are not transferred                                  installations and equipment of facilities of the state
health system
norms and regulations for surveillance and distribution   ensure strict compliance of national norms and
of health facility waste                             regulations on health facility waste disposal
Technology            norms for health facility equipment for uniformity,   procurement, management, distribution and
economy and maintenance                               assignment of equipment and supplies to facilities
under state administration
registration and assessment of high technology
equipment



63                                        ANNEX m
Table 3. G: National and State Responsibiliies for Health as Indicated in Aragua Decentralization Agreement
Occupational healh    norms for occupational health (in coordination with
st  heal system) r
Food and drugs       policies, norms and supervision of health inspection  adminitration of stat health system: health
activities rted to environmental sanitation, food,  inspection, monitoring of preparation, transport and
drug, pharmaceutical and cosmetics, publc and      distribution of food, drugs, pharmaceuticals and
private establishments and healh professions.      cosmetics
registration and supervision of installation, opening,
supervison nd evaluation of provisions established by   functioning nd trauport of pharmaceutical and
law for the manufacture, impoation and markcting of   cosmetics facilhies
tupefacients, psychotropics and similar substan    initiate legal proceedings for violation of laws relted
to food and drugs.
supervision and monitoring of food and beveages
through information system on irnporwtion, health
registration; approval of packaging for foods produced
at national level (in coordination with ste health
system  nd with state -municipality cooperation)   _
Health education                                                        social promotion, health education, community
particoation
creat meehanisms for community participation at
state, municipal and facility level
Emergencies          assist state in case of emergency                  share responsibility for diasten, epidemics and
pandemics
norms, dtps, procedures, coordination mechanisms
for assisance in epidemics, earthquakes, floods and
other cautropher
shae responsibility for mnagement of disasters,
epidemics and pandemics 
Special                                                                 control use of health services by foreigners
circumstances



VENEZUELA
Health Services Reform Project
Table IV A: Project Objectives and Activities
The main objective of the project is to improve health outcomes for the 3 million users of govermment health services in the states of Argua, Falc6n, Trujillo and Zulia
P r o j e c t  Project Subcomponent and Cost:   Intermediate Objectives:               Proect Activity:
Component,
Cost and
S p eci f i c0;0                                                    00; 0   ; V            
Spjectific
Health  Policy  Hospital Autonomy               Hospital management is efficient and   Sponsor workshops to increase awareness among
Analysis  and  (US$300,000)                     accountablefor resource allocations and   persons influential in the health sector including
Reform                                          performance.                           central Ministry and state-level health authorities
( U S $ 4 .5                                    Hospitals haveflexibility in management   on autonomy issues.
million)                                        of inputs (hunan resources, equipment,    Develop and pilot test options for legal and
Redefine  key                                   materials) and in contracting out      functional organization of hospitals.
government                                      services.                              Formulate and implement action plan for broader
health policies                                                                        application on basis of pilot experience.
related   t o
publi resourc Rationalization of Service    Functional referral system ensures that    Sponsor workshops to increase awareness among
public resourc   Delivery Models                patients are treated at the most cost-  persons influential in the health sector including
aiocation and  (US$600, 000)                    effective klvel                        central Ministry and state-level health authorities
wthUzaton aed                                   Each group of human resources          about issues in the service delivery model.
organization of                                 (specialized and general physicians,   Analyze current service delivery model to identify
health reiceso                                  nurses, auxiliary woriers, etc.) provides   needs for change.
only the services that less expensive  Recommend changes in service delivery model
human resources cannot provide,       and pilot test them.
Formulate and implement action plan for broader
application on basis of pilot experience.



P r o j e c t  Project Subcomponent and Cost:   Intermediate Objectives:              Project Activity:
Component,
Cost and
Specific
Objective
Improved Health Financing       States are capable of identifying explicitly  Sponsor workshops to increase awareness among
(US$2.3 million)                the services they wiU ensure using cost-   persons influential in the health sector including
effectiveness criteria.               central Ministry and state-level health authorities
States are capable offormulating policies  about health care finance issues.
on subsidization of services.         Conduct a series of linked studies to examine
States have accurate information about    financing issues including: (a) public sector
the costs of primary care per capita and   budgeting; (b) provider payments; (c) cost
the costs of hospital care by diagnosis or  recovery; (d) cost of basic package of services;
procedure.                            and (e) ability to pay.
Facilities have accurate information on  Recommend steps to improve health care finance
patient ability to pay and insurance  and introduce them on a pilot basis in project
status.                               states.
Facilities have the capability of capturing  Formulate and implement action plan for broader
a greater share of revenues through cost  application on basis of pilot experience.
recovery and insurance payments.
States can holdfacilities accountablefor
volume, mix and quality of services.
Strategic Image Management      Leadership of central Ministry of Health    Design and introduce systems for researching,
(US$1.1 million)                and state health directorates is capable of monitoring, analyzing and assessing the political
strategically managing the identity, image  and social context of the health reform process.
and relations of the reform program.  Provide consulting services to central Ministry and
Project successfully addresses and    state health directorates in conflict management.
neutralizes potential opposition.     Train project personnel in strategic image
Ministry of Health is capable of      management and public relations.
modifying habits, concepts and modes of   Develop and implement a communications strategy
interaction which are inefficient and  which projects a positive image of the project.
counterproducaive.                    Monitor opinions of key interest groups and take
corrective actions to improve communications.



P r o j    c t  Proiect Subcomponent and Cost:   Intermodiate Objetve:Project Activity:
Component.;
Coat   and
Other Policy Initiafives        Ministy of Heakh formulates a         Study information needs at all levels of the health
(US$200,000)                    coordinated strategy for ibformation  systen, assess current health information
managemnt in the sedor.               initiatives and formulate  ons  for
Ministry of Health and the Government of metig information needs and integrting ongoin
Caracas fornwule a proposal for       initiatives.
improving the quality, wtilization and  Conduct a diagnoss of the problem  with health
efficency of health care in the capitaL  eric  i Carcs, develop a proposed solution
Mindstry of Helthfonnulates a proposal  and undertake a feasibility study.
for a second health services refonr    Use implementation experience of this project,
project.                              supplemented with additional studies, to design a
follow on operation.
Institutional  Management Training Program      Staff ofjstate health diredorates and  Develop and implement training program for
Development   (US$4.0 million)                 district health offices capable of     management staff of state health directorates,
( U S $ 2 3 . 7                                managing human resources in accordance  district health offices and facilities in the areas of
million)                                        with labor law and human resource     human resource management, community
P r o m o t e                                   management techniques; conducting     participation, occupational safey and accident
decentralization                                community outreach activities effectively,   prevention; time managment; program
by building the                                preventing work-related accidents;     monitoring; training of trainers; communication
capity of the                                   managing time; conducting training    skills and meeting managemet.
states, districts                              programs; developing and carrying out
andfacilities to                               program monitoring plans;
plan  and                                       communicating cefectively and managing
manage health                                   meetings.
care in a
decentralized  Management Systems               State health directorates, disct health    Develop and implement management systems in
framework.      (US$8.9 million)                offices and facilities capable of effectively  state health directorates, district health offices and
managing human resources, strategic   selected hospitals.
planning, drugs and materials,        Introduce computerized information systems to
maintenance, finances and waste. State   support management systems.
health directorates, districts and selecaed   Train personnel to use new management systems
hospitals supported by effective      and computers.
information technology.



P r o j e c t  Project Subcomponent and Cost:   Intermediate Objectives:              Project Activity:
Component,
Cost and
S p e c i f i c
Objective
Institutional Development Support  States develop customized solutions to  Establish administrative structure, procedures for
Fund                            strengthen institutional capability in order  access to fund and selection criteria for project
(US$ 5.9 million)               to manage the health sector more      proposals.
effectively.                          Undertake studies and provide technical assistance
on institutional development issues of particular
interest to participating states.
Develop and implement action plans on basis of
study conclusions.
Strengthening  Clinic Rehabilitation and       Ambulatory clinics are in good repair,  Design, execute and supervise rehabilitation civil
o f  H e a It h  Equipment                      well-lit and well-ventilated. Space   works.
S e r v i c e s  (US$29.6 million)             allocations are adequateforfunctions.  Procure, deliver and install equipment.
Delivery                                       Patient waiting areas are comfortable.  Develop and implement plans for plant and
(U S $ 6 6 . 0                                 Basic systets for water supply, electricity  equipment maintenance, waste disposal.
million)                                       and cooling arefunctional.             Inform community about improvements.
Enhance  the                                    Medical and office equipment is adequate
quality  and                                   forfunctions and correctly installed.
efficiency   of
go vernment
health services  Hospital Rehabilitation and    Hospitals are in good repair, well-lit and  Design, execute and supervise rehabilitation civil
b           y  Equipment                        well-ventilated. Space allocations are  works. Undertake construction to control asbestos
rehabilitating  (US$ 36.4 million)             adequateforfunctions and minimize risks  release.
plant  and                                      of hospital infection. Patient waiting  Procure, deliver and install equipment.
replacing basic                                 areas are comfortable.                Develop and implement plans for plant and
equipment  in                                  Basic systems for water supply,        equipment maintenance, waste disposal.
a mb u l a tory                                elearicity, heating and cooling are    Inform community about improvements.
clinics   and                                  funaional.
hospitals.                                     Medical and office equipment is adequate
forfunctions and correctly installed.



68                                        ANNEX IV
Tablk IV B: PUlWminary Jay Projea Monitonng Indicotor
Suibcmofi.pem t 0j4000 t  Wnjltt olmlatath   MnoringIndict
Horpal Autonomy study    legislation for hospital autonomy introduced
| fInctional model for hoBpital autonomy developed
Sewke Ddvey Model          legislation for service delivcry model introduced
study
functional model for service delivery developed
Improved FianAng            basic package of service for govemment financing developed
resourc allocation mechanisms for transfers from national to stace level and from state to facility kvel developed
model performance agreements for transfers from national to stae kvel nd from stae to facility level developed
cost albcation system developed
Stratec Imae                centra and state systems for monitoring opinion opctive
M-a
communkations strategy document developed
Other laittivat           I report on Caracas eath situation developed
Ma  _geat traheini          number of training events by subject
number of days per training event
number of participants per training event



69                                        ANNEX IV
Subomponent                 Project Implementation Mnitoring Indicators
Management systems          human resource system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in human resource system
strmtegic planning system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in strategic planning system
materials management system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in materials management system
maintenance system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in management system
financial management system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in financial management system
waste disposal system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in waste disposal system
epidemiological information system and manuals developed; number of staff trained in epidemiological infonnation
system
management information system developed
370 computers installed; 740 staff trained in computer use
Institutional Development    number of studies proposed, approved and implemented per state
Support Fund              I
Strengthenig of Health      427 ambulatory clinics rehabilitated (by type, by state, by year of completion)
Servke Dedivery
number of facilities equipped according to project norms (by facility type, by state, by year of completion)
number of facilities with adequate waste disposal systems installed (by facility type, by state, by year of
completion)
4 hospitals rehabilitated (by state, by year, by type)
Counterpart                 Central GOV   USS 24.0      million
Contributions               Falcen         USS 7.2      million
Aragua         US$ 7.6      million
Trujillo       US$ 7.6      million
Zulia         US$ 7.6       million



70                                         ANNEX IV
Tabk IV C: Preliminary Key Project Evaluation Indicators
Subcomponent          Project Evaluation Indicators             Methodology
Hospital Autonomy  Inumber of hospitals in project states with    observation
study                 legal and administrative autonomy
Service Delivery      volume and type of services shifted from  baseline and final
Model study           inappropriate to appropriate facility levels   study of service
in each state                            volume and mix in
representative sample
of project facilities
(hospitals and
l __________________  ____________________________________       am bulatory    clinics)
Improved Fmancing   share of health budget in each project     state health budget
state redistributed to more cost effective  analysis pre- and post-
services                                 project in each project
state
number of project states receiving health    observation
budget resources from MSAS through
performance agreements by end of project
share of hospitals and ambulatory clinics    observation
by type in each state receiving resources
from state through performance
agreements by end of project
share of hospitals and ambulatory clinics    observation
by type in each state operating cost
accounting system by end of project
average share of net income of hospitals    facility budget analysis
and ambulatory clinics by type in each   pre- and post-project
state which comes from insurance         in representative
payments and users fees by end of project   sample of project
hospitals and
ambulatory clinics
Strategic Image       public opinion about quality and         public opinion surveys
Management            efficiency of health services in project  in each project state
states by end 1997                       pre-project and at end
1997
Other Initiatives     Govemment has developed project          observation
proposal for strengthening health services
in Caracas



71                                      ANNEX IV
Subeomponent         Projet Evaltation Indicators           Mediodoblgy
Management           share of trained personnel whose       performance
training program     performance improves according to      assessment of
training objectives                    representative sample
of trained staff one
year after completion
of training
Management          indicators to be developed for measuring    methodology and
systems              impact of:                            impact indicators to be
- improved human resource management    developed with
- successful use of strategic planning tools  technical assistance
- improved management of materials     prior to project
- improved maintenance                 implementation
- improved financial management
- improved waste disposal
- improved use of epidemiological
information
- improved use of management
information
Institutional        - actions taken on basis of studies    observation
Development          financed in each state
Support Fund
Strengthening of     indicators to be developed for measuring    methodology and
Health Service      impact of:                             impact indicators to be
Delivery             - rehabilitation and equipping of 427  developed with
ambulatory clinics                     technical assistance
- rehabilitation and equipping of 4    prior to project
hospitals                             irplementation



Table IV. D Project Implementation Schedules
Picy A aysi ad Reform
Hosptal Autonotny   Intie first phe all    Agree with Bank on      Agree with Bank on       Implment action       Impleme  action       Compine study on
tudies by April, 199S.    n       n           action plan on bais of    plan as ageed.       plan an agreed.       Hospital Autonomy.
MSAS will exploe in   first year pilot
phae 11 pilot          experiment reauls by
eaimets  for each      June 30, 1997.
sudy by January 15,
1996.
Rat_onaliation of    Complkte first phae of  Begin phase   pilt                                                                         Compnd   study on
Service Delivery    aD sudies by            eperiments by April                                                                         Ra            of
Models              December 15, 1995.      15, 196.                                                                                   Savice Delivery
Models.
Improved Health                                                                                                                         Complcte studies on: (a)
Financing                                                                                                                               subsidies; (b) resource
ailocation mechanisms;
(c) ost alocation and
cost recovery; and (d)
parfnnance
agreements.
Strategic Imcge                                                                                                                         design ud inrnec
Ma ua_ement                                                                                                                              sysM for tracing
publc opinion;
tain and advise MSAS
and sae in negots.,
conffict resobtion,
communication
Other Policy                                                                                                                            conduct tudy of
Initiatives                                                                                                                             Caracas hcah sydem;
conduct study of heakh
inforation sysi



Component and        I         1995                     1996                     1997                     I9                     199                     Total
Subcomponent         I
Institutional development
Management           (Scheduling to the                                                                                                        train 5300 staff of state
Training Program     determined)                                                                                                               health directorates,
districts, hospitals and
ambulatory clinics
Management           Enter MSAS personnel   prepare manual of job    implement human            Implement human        implement human        install computerized
Systems              in 4 states in database;   descriptions for 4    resources management    resources system in 2   resource management   health information
prepare manual of       states;                  system in I state;        states;                system in 1 state;     system in 4 DRS, 20
norms and procedures;   prepare human           implement materials       implement materials    implement materials    districts and 25 hospitals
train staff;            resource admin norms    management system in       management system      management system
design and test         and procedures in I      second state;             in I state;            in I state;
materials management   state;                    implement maintenance    implement               implement
system in Falc6n;       develop maintenance      system in second state;    maintenance system    maintenance system
approve maintenance     procedures for all      implement strategic       in I state;             in 2 states;-
plan for all states;    states;                  planning in second state;  implement strategic    implement strategic
design planning         implement strategic      implement                 planning system in I    planning in I state;
module of strategic     planning in I state;     epidemiological           state;                 implement waste
planning;               implement                management system in 3   design waste            management system
design epidemiological   epidemiological         states.                   management system.    in 4 states.
management system in    management system in
4 states                I state
Institutional                                                                                                                                  support state
Development                                                                                                                                    institutional
Support Fund                                                                                                                                   development studies
Strengthening of lHealth Service Delivery
Clinic               (Scheduling to be                                                                                                         rehabilitate and provide
Rehabilitation and   determined)                                                                                                               equipment to 427 clinics
Equipment
Hospital                                                                                                                                      rehabilitate and provide
Rehabilitation and                                                                                                                             equipment to 4 hospitals
Equipment



74                                    ANNEX V
Table VA. Basic Management Training Program objectives and contents
I. Intensive Mnagement Training
A 160 hour, intensive course, targeted at the high level management staff of the DRS. It has 10 modules:
1) health policy analysis; 2) decentralization and health systems; 3) health legislation; 4) socio-economic
factors in the health sector; 5) management and service delivery quality; 6) conflict management and
communication; 7) human resources management 8) health systems management; 9) human relationships; and
10) management process, negotiation and leadership skills.
H. Management Improvement Training
12 courses of between 16 and 24 hours each, addressed to unit heads at the DRS, health districts and
hospitals. The contents and objective of the courses are as follows:
1)  Strategic health planning:  presents participants with a selection of strategic planning techniques
applied to public organizations, emphasizing the health sector.
2)  Managerial supervision:    reviews monitoring techniques. This course will enable staff to
modify their perception of supervision, enhancing its supportive and
goal-focused aspect versus its control aspect.
3)  Financial planning:        presents financial strategic planing as a tool for operational planning.
It will stress the importance of maintaining a permanent financial
system.
4)  Decision making:           analyzes the process of decision making, its bases, applications,
scope and limitations, specially in relation to public administration.
It would introduce tools like decision trees and simulations.
5)  Engineering process:       presents an overview of the theory, methodology and implications
of process re-engineering taking Venezuelan examples of successful
application of the methodology. The course will also develop skills
for the introduction of changes.
6)  Operational manual:        familiarizes staff with the project's operational manual, in order to
handle specific project procedures without problems.
7)  Procurement:               reviews technical and legal options in Venezuela and internationally
for contracting, as well as the procedures for administration and for
follow-up of these contracts. Discusses bidding, contracts and
disbursement procedures.
8)  Public Health inspection:   offers an overview of Venezuelan laws and procedures for public
health control.
9)  Hospital management:       provides an introduction to modem techniques used to manage
hospitals.
10) Epidemiology:              discusses the role of epidemiology in the determination of the health
profile, the implications of the profile for operational management,
activities, and the identification of priorities in the sector.
11) Management skills:         aims to develop planning, organization, and monitoring skills of
participants.
12) Quality and productivity:   analyses and discusses the concept of productivity as tool to improve
management in the sector. Methodological proposals to improve
management will be formulated.



75                                      ANNEX V
III. Technical Training Courses
16 to 24 hours courses, directed to mid-level management of health districts and hospitals and managers
of ambulatory health facilities. These eleven courses, will be more practical than the above mentioned.
They will focus on teaching skills; theory will be limited to a minimum. The contents and objective of the
courses are as follows:
1)   Public Health Inspection:   reviews the basic knowledge and skills needed to perform public
health inspection and control tasks.
2)   Program Administration:   studies tools to improve management of public health programs,
planning tools, work programs, definition and monitoring of
objectives.
3)   Hospital administration:    reviews functions and tasks in hospital administration.
4)   Epidemiology:               helps identify health problems in coverage area, prioritizing,
identifying risk factors, designing and implementing preventive
measures.
5)   Supervisory skills:         develops concepts and features that are the bases for adequate
supervision, control and conflict resolution.
6)   Project monitoring:         presents skills and tools for practical supervision and monitoring of
health programs.
7)   Hospital maintenance:       provides management and administration skills and tools designed
for effective integrated maintenance of health facilities and
equipment.
8)  Investment projects:         reviews tools for detection of investment needs and formulation of
investment projects; reviews existing institutions that could finance
these projects.
9)   Local Health Systems        implementation of SILOS and development of methodology for
(SILOS)                    evaluation.
10) Emergency plans:            promotes the development of emergency plans; studies decision
making process in emergency situations and the use of
epidemiological information.
11)  Biostatistics:             instructs in the interpretation of basic data analysis and decision
making based on it.
IV. Logistic Support Course:
A set of 5 courses of 3 to 8 hours targeted to administrative support staff at health districts and
hospitals.
1)   Applied computer skills:   reviews and uses current and new software.
2)   Statistics and databases:    overviews the use and development of databases.
3)   Financial analysis:        analyses financial statements and use for planning, also provides
overview of financial alternatives.
4)   Accounting:                 reviews accounting techniques.
5)   Budgeting:                  reviews budgeting and accounting in Venezuela, and implications on
policymaking, operational management and planning.



76                                  ANNEX V
Table V B. Complementary Management Training Program Objectives and Contents
The training unit of the DRS in Falcon identified training needs. The course areas and
contents mentioned in this annex are indicative. The bases for discussion were the staff demand for
training as expressed in the two-yearly surveys done by the MSAS. Course contents will be
adapted every year to needs identified at the state and facility level. The nine identified areas and
course contents are as follows:
1.  Legal:             Targeted to directors of health facilities and head of personnel units,
3 courses of 8 to 20 hours each:
la. Collective contracts:
overview of union legal norms and negotiation techniques.
lb. Labor laws:        review of Venezuelan labor law, worker's rights and duties.
lc. Decentralization:  information  on  the  decentralization  process, discussing  the
implications of it on the status of civil servants, advantages and
disadvantages.
2.  Motivational:      designed for district and health facilities staff, 3 seminars of 12 to 20
hours duration each on the following subjects:
2a. Motivation:        identification of goals at work, analysis of levels of motivation,
identification and discussion of constraints.
2b. Self-esteem:       identification and discussion of levels of self-esteem among staff
working in health facilities, discussion of identification of staff with
goals of the institution.
2c. Human Interaction: analysis and discussion of human interactions on one-to-one and
collective bases.
3.  Social:            3 workshops of 10 to 12 hours each, for the health staff working
directly with communities. The contents of the workshops would be
as follows:
3a. Community Participation:
description of community participation methodologies, analyzing how
and when can be applied.
3b. Planning and operational research:
analysis of theories and methodology illustrated with practical cases.



77                                ANNEX V
3c. Impact evaluation: analysis of design and use of indicators for evaluation of impact of
community-based programs.
4.  Maintenance:      a course of 20 hours about security in the work area and accident
prevention, addressed to maintenance personnel.
5.  Training:         a course of 20 to 30 hours for Health Districts staff with supervisory
and on-the-job-training functions, on:
Sa. Development and monitoring:
introduces supervision concepts and techniques, management and
administration of supervision.
5b. Training of trainers:
overview of basic pedagogical techniques.
5c. Tine management:
introduction to time management tools.
6. Conflict Resolution:
a course of 20 hours for managers of health facilities that will
focus on: a) communication concepts and skills; and b) sldlls and
tools for meeting management.



78                                                      ANNEX V
Tabk V C. Basic Managemem Training - Total Activity*
CoGwss                                                            TOl         Days per             Vacancies               oTal
Events         Event                                  Participants
Regiowns,     Facdlits
Disricts
A  Intensive Management Training                                       2               10             4          46              50
B  Mangenment Improvement Cours
*  Strategic Health Planning                                          10                2           43          291             334
*  MAnagement Monitoring                                               4               2             16          92             108
*  Financial Planning                                                  4               2              8          92             100
*  Decision mk'ing                                                     4               2            59           46             105
*  Engineering Process                                                 4                2           59           46             105
*  Handling of MSAS/IIRD Operational Manual                            I                I             8                           8
*  Procurement                                                         I                1            16                          16
*  Health Contro/Monitoring                                            2               2              8                           8
*  Hospital Management                                                 8               3            43          184             227
*  Managemntt of Epidemioloy                                           3                2            35          46              81
*  Developnent of Mnagement Skills                                    22                3            56         593             649
*  Quality Manaemt & Productivity                                     38                2                      1148            1148
C. Technical Trainin Courses
*  Public Health Inspection                                            2                2            16                          16
*  Adminisdation of Hcalth Programs                                    2                3           59                           59
*  HospitAl Administration                                             8                3           27          199             226
*  Epidemiology                                                        8                2            31         199             230
*  OeneFal Supervision Skills                                          8                2            55         184             239
*  Supervision & Monitoring of Health Projects                         2               2            55                           55
*  Hospital Maintenance                                                6                3                       199             199
*  Identification & Design of Investment Projects                      3               3            59                           59
*  Evaluation & Monitoring of Social Projects                          3                3           59                           59
*  Methodology of Local HeAlth Systems (SILOS)                         8                2           31          199             230
*  Design & Monitoring of Emergency Plans                              8                2            27         199             226
*  Use of Statistical & Epidemiology Data                              8                3           31          199             230
D. Logistic Support Courses
*  Applied Coniputer Skills                                            8                3           55          184             239
*  Statistics and Use of Data Bases                                    3                3            31          46              77
*  Financial Analysis                                                  3                3           31           46              77
*  Accounting                                                          6                3                       199             199
*  Budget Design, Execution & Monitoring                               3               3            31           46              77
TOTAL                                                                192             481            953        4483            5436
days
* One participant might attend several courses.
Study Tours                 Total                       Days per                    Participants                 Total
Nunber                      Tour                        per tour                     Participants
4                           30                          20                           80



79                                        ANNEX V
Tabk VD. Skcktion Crireriafor Participants in the National Training Progran
1. Nominated by immediate supervisor and endorsed by the Regional Health Director.
2. On active employment status.
3. Contract with the MSAS agrecing to continue with the organization.
4. In addition, he/she should provide along with his/her nomination the following information in
order to be accepted to the program.
* Identification
* Academic background and performance
* Curriculum vitae, including current position



80                                       ANNEX V
Table V E. Institutional Dev'elopment Support Fund: Financing Seiection Criteria
Eligibility Criteria for the States
Signed participation agreement.
Strategic health plan.
Institutional development plan.
25 percent of the estimated costs of proposed projects budgeted by state as counterpart
fund.
Steps
Prepare proposal using UCP "Methodological Guide for Study and Technical Assistance
Proposals"
Present request with copy of project proposal.
Include implementation plans stating management arrangements, impact indicators for
evaluation and fundiig availability.
Proposal will be evaluated by the Intergovernmental Committee, based on following
criteria:
Project Eligibility Criteria
-       Proposal either (a) implements results of the Policy Analysis and Reformn studies; or
(b) supports operation of Management Systems introduced by the project.
-       Complies with strategic health plan and project objectives.
-       Duration of the projects would be limited to a year. Longer projects would be justified
before being considered.
-       State has implemented at least 2/3 of previous projects, in case of category (a) projects;
or taken action on the recommendations of previous studies, in case of category (b)
projects.
-       Only projects ranging between US$ 10,000 to 100,000 will be considered.
-       Projects will be approved in order of priority determined by applying state.



81                                   ANNEX VI
Tabk VIA. Basesfor Rehabilitation Cost Estimates
Facility Replacement Costs per Square Meter by Typc
Rumal Ambulatory I                 $300
Rural Ambulatory n                 $400
Urban Ambulatory I                 $300
Urban Ambulatory II                $600
Urban Ambulatory II                $815
Hospital I-IV                      $815 ($22,000 and 27 sq.m.
per bed)
Tabk VI B. Share of Replacement Cost by Erxent of Rehabilitation
Replacement                                           100%
Muior Rehabilitation                                   50%
Intrmediate Rehabilitation                             35%
Minor Rehabilitation                                   10%
Table U C. COsts Associated with Physical Rehabilitation (as share of construction costs)
Ambulatory Clinics    Hospitals
Engineering design                  2%                     4%
Supergvision                        8%                     8%
Maintenance                          1% replacement        1% replacement



Hf  8 Rf 
Tbl 1. HII_ ALnmy
D_Sofd Costs
(USS)
OunIM                          UI                   Bass cost (Cwe)
Unit   1995    199    1997   1998   199l   Total    Cost   1996   199    1991    1996   1999   Tota
L Inveshtme Costs
Ak Rnal TOR                      amount                                                               14                                      14
EL Conewg S*s
Phse 1 (3 mons)                anount                                                               69        -      -        -            69
Phan 2 (4 me)                  amount                                                                .       71      -               -     71
Oflo rent                      amout                                                                17        -               .      .      17
Con en  (5%)                   amoult                                                                4        4          -           -      8
Conhlin Form Overhed (10%)   amout                                                                   8        8      -        -      -      1
Subsotal C    _  S*                                                                                   98       83      -        -      -    161
C. Study Tou
1. vis Chis
tra                           tcket        4        -       -      -               4    1,200      5        -      -               -       5
perdem                        day         40        -      -       -       -      40      220      9        -     -        -      -       9
Subtotal visit ChlU                                                                                 14        -      -        -      -      14
2. vIt Canada
tavel                        ticket         -       4       -      -               4    1,500      -        6      -        -      -      6
percem                        day          -      40        -      -       -      40      250      -       10      -       -       -     10
Subtotal vst Canda                                                                                   -       16      -        -      -      16
3. vsit England
trAl                          ticket                4       -      -       -       4    1,900      -        8      -        -      -      8
per im                        day           -     48        -      -       -      48      250      -       1 2     -       -       -      1 2
Subtotal vIt Enlnd                                                                                   -       20      -        -      -     20
Subotal Std Tour                                                                                      14       36      -        -      -      49
D. Trahh9 & Dlsmbwbon
lntmnbralonitciwIwkhop.         day          4        -       -      -       -       4    4,500     18        -                        -  -  18
Nkonalbeltat rw imwahop         day           -       B       -      -       -       8    3,000      -       24      -       -       -     24
Auto. sector dsmkiion seminar   day          2        -       -      -       -       2    3,000      6        -                              a-  - 
National auto. dimeenudonat minar  day        -       1       -      -       -       1    5,000      -        5      -        -      -      5
lIntfional gusts              wkshop         6       4        -      -       -      10   2,500      15       10      -       -       -     25
Subtal Tran   & Dsemnation                                                                            39       39      -        -      -      78
Total                                                                                                   164     157      -        -            321



83                                    ANNEX VII
.1    . . . . . .      .  . . W     -   e   XI. . . .   . . . . . .
.    ......~ ~~~~ ..I.    ...           .. ..
.          .. . ..     ..   ..            ..  ..      . .  . . a 
tZ  '    '           I         I      '''        '       11
. 3 
} 1 '-"1i W-l ''1'1 'an                  u    1        C2
a a                     ..~~~~~~~~~~ a.. ..
||   }idi               f t l             ('4  .(O
liii  jiu                            iiiij



aumdmNumb  &
OuuU0   m                 D "soSTeam   CS
L hwasbagid CmbC
A Bll ar TOR                                amwt                                                                            32        -                 -       -      32
IL C     _md"  kivim
1. _wwm        mdood
P_   1                                                                                                                 IS3                         .        .      153
PM  2                  -Ymwt                                                                                                    144        .        .       .     144
SWU  ComnomS Fbdqm   &*~Comb                                                                                                                                N
2. Com k*d
Pt- 2 - maihs)                                                                                                                  311       _-                 -    311
S ami col 8hA* 
3.  Sm   ASmd. Uvms- Sbi
ph_  I  ube                             mmo                                                                            252                              -  -         2
phm  20} emai)                                                                                                                  352                 -             352
Sd*m Rm MhcM Sydum MA                                                                                                 -m~y  
4. Pmfm           _  Xm_mb ibdy
phmami (3 maim)                         avo,                                                                             7                                         5?
phma 2 (4 maim)                         mrsou-                                                                                   96                .               s9
Sd       Pwf    c       -       Sbdy                                           ~-- T                                               95        .        .       .
5. Olac.. mpIM  Swd."Mmt                  wmout                                                                           34       34        -                       69
6. Ca.Rqo i    )                          smowt                                                                           43       43                                 as-  -
7. Camuig &I aId (10%)                    wnout                                                                          9s        90                 -              1S0
Subb" Cmm*A9 Sw,m6                                                                                                                                      -            1,784
C. s~bo*  kw41
wih                                      Ucst            5          *        *                          5    1,200       6                          -       -       6
prs dm                                    dy            5s o                                           50      220      1 1                -        -       -       I1
S_bit VhS CSI                                                                                                              17                -
L VS Com  R
'I                                       bdw             5                       -            -         5      800       4                          -       -       4
per dm                                    day           S           -                                  s 5o    200       10                -        -       -      10
SSo  Vio Coda Rk                                                                                                           14                -        -       -       14
3. VbkiatCino.gmbog
OvAd                                     bdt             -          5        -                -         5    1 ,500       -                -        -       - a
pwdem                                     day            -         59        -                         50      250        -      13        -        -       -       13
Sd dViok C.mk (0m                                                                                                     --                 -        -         
4. VI  USA
twIr                                     tokE            -          5        -                          5    1,400                7        -        -       -        7
perdwm                                    dw             -         75                                  76      250        -      19        -        -       -       10
Sb Vm US -A                                                                                                                                  -   -
Subbft ftdyfaw                                                                              ~~~31     48        
0. O sbdknbm  WdWS-m-
kwim, To"" S_ mkw                           dos            4          -                                   4    4,500       18       -        -        -       -       la
1dmld-m m              W                    d              B          -        -       *                  8    3,000      24        -                 -24
Ado. .m dIdoI  umnor                        doy                       3        -                -         3    3,000                9            -            -
Ndonk   WAD. IsomIs     siniw               dos-                      3                -        -         3    5,000               15        -
I      gums                                          8                                    16    2,50                20      20        -        -       -
Subbo4d ObomakmiU md                                                                                                        42       46 _D"_ 44 -- 92 1
E CAwW&  &                   abni_                                                                                          46       48                -                   2
T_1l,08                                                                                                                              1,204                -        - 2,1 



H Su Rr Rd
Tabl 4. S&** hne MMM&w
DObU Cab
0dmnE6                                                                  asacod~
Undt           s            lo"             I?          lowS     1i3          TOW         Uri cot d     9S5    16        129r    iSS 11      SS    T.bl
Lk, hiam- Costs
A. ConMuah  Soryl
sdojd cduWA1                       mnt                 24              24              24                  -              72      1,600       38       38       38                  -      115
Irndiwc onw,wngcd                 moath                24              24             24                  -               72      1,000       24       24       24                  -       72
lidonwn nimms                     nmoia                12              12              12             -                  38       3O0D        36       3S       36                         106
PernMs avlw                        mort                12              12              12                 -               36      4.00        48       48       48 _                       144
sIOl  Condbnb                                                                                                                                  '146      146                 -                4
baw dW                                                 48              48              48                 -              144        150        7        7        7         -                22
per din                             day                De              96              96                                288        130       12       12       12         -                37
S4motA hW  & par iS                                                                                                                             20       20       20         -
seMl    Cuuun 7f1   1 l6                                                                                                                                            166        -498
B. Taning    k h,lpe
wd    banr k &4 ory    ws                a                6                                                                  6      4,800       29                           - *              29         UA
dsaitow & a& NAm    s               aw*                                  12                                  -              12   4,800            *    58                                     58
tiunkwoa ni         ns r                       * *                                       22                                 22       2,4          -        -       53                         53
8daW               k Tain & uwhops                                                                                                                 29    58    53              -               139
C 03_lo Sbu
ktmr d opa,matudlm                   sudy                 a                                                                  8     10,000       80                           -        -       80
a         ion"iin                    Sdudy *8                                              -        -                        8      10,000               80                                   80
SaW*        Op_i  SAdis                                                                                                                            80       80        *                        160
D. 0OMm aqupmt
lwhm                                  unt                 7                                                                  7 -  1  1,450      10                                            10
Kbwe                                  pIle                2                -                                 -               2     12,500       25                           -        -       25
Subtoald Om"ice    -                                                                                                                              35
LI IdIiI PoductIon
bidWn                                 urd             12,900         12,900          12,900        -                    38,700          1       11        1l       11        -                33
poe  12 pope                          unl             10,000         QODO           10,000        *                    30,0C0          1       12        12       12                         36
prorn 114 pop (4 dsah )               Uri            20,000          20,000          20,000        -         -          60,000          1       14        14       14        -                42
wrtid  yych 1/4 pwe                   unk             49,500         49,500          49,500        -                   148,500                  14        14       14        -        *       43
bpch 114 poe (4 Met)                  unX             80,000         8QOOO           II,OD         *                   240,000                  23       23        23        -        *       70
SuMllld b         dboduclon                                                                                                                 --r4  -74   74                     *              * 223
TOWl                                                                                                                                                384      378      293        1-        *     ,05S



Health Services Reform Project
Table 5. Other initiatives
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Quantities                       Unit                     Base Cost COOO)
Unit    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    Total    Cost    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
1. Investment Costs
A Other initiatives (estimates)        amount                                                                      -     200        -                       200
Total                                                                                                                -     200         -       -        -     200
00



T."i 6, Minup  s  Tr*tP ogms,
T 8~~.-
quum                                            UFA                         3m Codt (m
ULe        13           136        "1T7          11           13            TOW         Codt1              11W      1"I7      16W      16        ToI
A. Sa.wa A W,_wp_
I.i lw      b 9mUmUlb                   hur              160         16D                                      -            320      200       32        32                            ,       64
2. Mmqese rmh
S    o pluoi                         whour             32           32           32           32          32            160       2D0        6         6        a         6        6        32
I      _    Colo                      hour             Is           16           16          i6                          64       200        3         3        3         3                 13
Fwl PwMim                             hwr              16           16           16           16            -            64       200        3         3        3         3                 13
DcinMsIVW                             how              32            -           32                                      64       200        6                  6         -        -        13
Pmomm ngw                             hour             32           32                                      -            64       200        6         6                                    13
MSAS 1M Low _Mm"&   i                 hour              S                                      -                          IS                 2                                 -             2
Proauwnu*                             hour              8                                                                 a 8     200        2                                 -             2
Pubi h=M iuac                         how                -          16           16                         -            32       2W          -        3        3                  -         6
HIosp   mmq.m                         hour             48           46           24           24          24             16S      200       10        10        5         5        5        34
Epedw bic ws _mp4*                    hour             16           16           16            -            -            48       200        3         3        3         -        -        10
Sgo dsw&       t mntagmn              hour             96           96           96           go          96            480       200       19        19       19        19       19        96
PlOdU O n  dqAtyMWy i M.i             hour            112          112           go           96            -           416       2W        22        22       19        19                 83
8ubbW    Mmqinm.lTlWdm                                                                                                                         83       77       00        56       30       315
3. TchrJIn   Tring
Haabawdbt                             hour             16           16            -                         -            32       200        3         3             -                       6
Pmrou  adinkilba"                     hour             24           24            -            -            -            46       200        5         5         -        -        -        10
H        Jspdadn 6m                   hur              48           48           24           24          24             16S      200       10        10        5         S        5        34            XC
Esdwiodgy                             hour             32           32           le           16          16            112       200        6         6        3         3        3        22
SUP.rvWpcUiqm                         how              32           32           16           16          16             112      200        6         6        3         3        3        22
Hm  hpi,*   wpuv s mawa ncoatol    howr                16           16            -                                      32       200        3         3         -        -                  6
1       Mi WM                         hour             24           24           24           24          24            120       200        5         5        5         5        5       24
hw4 PjSctkwt& thlmt&o                 hour             24           24           24            -            -            72       2W0        5         5        5         -        -        14
Sacspoedtcordb  dsua4ori              hour             24           24           24            -            -            72       200        5         5        5         -        -        14
SLOS mdk*kIgy                         hourt                         32           32           32          32             128      200                  6        6         6        6        26
Emargwicyplmrsbnbmw       n& & dw     hour                          32           32           32          32            128       200                  6        6         6        6       26
SD OS     t&   Epidem Cod             htour            24           24           46           48          48             192      200        5         5       10        10       10        36
3uIna   T_mckid TWA9                                                                                                                          53        06       48        38       36       243
4.-1- S 
Iioumpe*srappk                        holo               -          48           48           48          48            192       200         -       10       10        10       10       3S
S1-aIwdds m womgnst                   hour             24           24           24            -            -            72       2          5         5        5         -        -        14
Frimcl  us                            hour             24           24           24                                      72       200        5         5        5         -                 14
Colta wrg                             hour             48           48           48                                      144      2W        10        IO       10                           29
Budgetfuiionamcubion&clc,             hour             24           24           24            -                         72       200        5         5        5                           14
_ bbwL ugw            seppot                                                                                                                  24        34       34        10       10       110
Subinil  Sahu&WIshops                                                                                                                           192      200       150      104       78       733
B. SP.dIs Trii  (Pund
1. L.gsAm. 
Dsoit*m                              amunt                                                                                                  46        46       46       46        46      230
Workb9agmigon                        amount                                                                                                 19        19       19        19       19       96
Unton w ~d oo6sntrqu burgamma        amount                                                                                                 38        38       38       38        36      192
SI_    La   Am                                                                                                                               104       104      104       104      104       518
SOI-41mm                             Bmunlt                                                                                                 23        23       23       23        23      115             -
mobvw                                wroinm t                                                                                               38        3S       3S       38        38      192



hurnan relatin                                    amount                                                                                           115       115     115      115      115      576
Subtotal mo6vaed am                                                                                                                                   177     177      177       177     177      883
3. Socia Ari
comnmunty hea_ h methods                          amount                                                                                            10       10       10       10       10       48
planning wid wiest sm     model                   amount                                                                                            12       12       12       12       12       58
community preoam kealtion                         amount                                                                                            12       12       12       12       12       58
subtal Sociam                                                                                                                                         33       33       33       33       33      163
4. Malntia    fee
acidnt pvention                                   amount                                                                                            19       19       19       19       19       96
s. Spenf a
bme maement                                       amount                                                                                            38       38       38       38       38      192
training progran  developnent                     amount                                                                                            19       19       19        19      19       96
formation    FE inrbuon                            nr4flWt                                                                                          29       29       29        29      29      144
Sug   _ Specicarea                                                                                                                                     86      86       86        86       86     432
*. Conflict Am
communicaon                                       amount                                                                                            19       19       19        19      19       96
meeting management                                amount                                                                                            38       38       38       38       38       192
Subioa Conflict a                                                                                                                                     58        58      58        58       58      288
Sulk- Special trning (Pund)                                                                                                                             476      476      476      476      476    2,381
C. Evaluaien (foraining)
Consultng seo                                       amount                                                                                                       .        -      103      103      206
D. Trav  & perddiem
1. Study tour
ptqe             5           5           5            5                        20    1,100        6        6        6        6        -       22
per diem                                           pk2a            150         150         150         150            *          600       350      53       53       53        53        -     210
Subtot Study tour                                                                                                                                      58       58      58        58              232
2. taining S workshops
travel                                              day           882          956         792         582         538          3,750       50      44       48       40       29       27      188        00
perdiem                                             day           882          956         792         582         538          3,750      50       44       48       40       29       27       186
Su'toti traning & workhops                                                                                                                            88        96      79        58       54      375
SubtrotWa Tmvei  per diem                                                                                                                               146      154      137      116       54      607
E. Training equipment
computer                                              ore              4           4           -            -                         8    5,000       20       20        -        -        -      40
photocopier                                           one              2           2           -            -           -            4    6,000        12       12                 -               24
tax                                                   one              2           2           -            -           -             4      500        1        1        -        -        -       2
proector                                             one              2            2                       -            -            4    1,750        4        4                  -        -       7
slide prodctor                                       one              2            2           -           -            -            4    1,000        2        2             -        -            4
flip chart                                            one             4            4           -            -           -            8      600         2        2                 -        -       5
T.V.                                                  sat             2            2           -            -           -            4      600         1        1        - I               -       2
V.HS                                                  set             2            2                        -           -            4       500        1        1        -                 -       2
Subtoa Training equipment                                                                                                                                43       43                                 86
Total                                                                                                                                                     857      881      764      799      711    4,013



Tabl 7.1. S. Managemet Syslm
Detld Cosb
WS$)
Quu m                              Unit                        a  Cs ro
Unit     1996       1996     19T    19SJ    1999         Tol    Cost    1996          96      1997     1996     19mi     Tota
L hive96ui Costs
k Cons   sdln rvl
admbi.lw       wig~e  sytm             amount                                                                                   106      106                         216
lum      -          -o   qmsyste       amount                                                                                   537      403      269       134    1,343
Sbg  nwiupnw   SYSIkM                    Hmount                                                                           -     164      164                  -      327
p-            ki omdlon syis           aunt                                                                               -    64    64              -               167
mia. Uq*f supply  m                 amount                                                                             -        -      179      179               359
m uwtio        m                      amOut                                                                              -      122      243      122               486
aNUd amieA System                      unct                                                                              -       40       61       40         *      162
Sub66  Consult   ais                                                                                                        -    1,055    1,262     610       134    3,060
L Trining
1. Cowses & wokshops
ajnwc.           -       -           mogymmt                                                                          16  15              -        -        -       32
hulwn rsoueman rw -m -                nt                                                                              73       73      110      110               367
agc R-ang   system                  amount                                                                            38       51       38                  *      128
ePicee,dologlcel k*qm"on Sys"em    amount                                                                            64       64                                 128
oiliMs supply sysem                 amoist                                                                            72       31                                102
mnw_em m                            amount                                                                            24       24        .                         48        00
aWid _ sym                          anouwt                                                                           102       26                                 128
SabUtt  Cxms  & workshops                                                                                              390      285      149      110               934
2. Travel & Per diem
a**kwclam unwgm_t syswm               a                                                                               51       34        -                         85
humnan  -onu _em eet systm            mot                                                                            154      115       S8       58         *     34
m*gic.-. ,m  sysWm                  amount                                                                            76       97       19         .              194
-  eS   hibioN                     amoist                                                                            48       48        -        -                9S
muW s supply systm                  anowt                                                                            147       63        -        -         *     211
nubmancs swem                       amoist                                                                            91       91                           -     182
sid usIa  m                         unou                                                                               2        5                  -        -       a
S6 ql  Tral fa Pat diem                                                                                                571      454       77       58         -   1,160
S&   l Trann                                                                                                             961      739      226      168         -   2094
C. Tr.nn eqluIpment
eonVp8r                               onr            4         4         -        -                       5 85 ,000   20       20        -                  -      40
O    tmechine                         one            2         2                  .        .        4    $,O00        12       12                           -      24
x                                     amon           2         2                           -        4      500         1        I                           -       2
proebr                                Orn            2         2                                    4    1,750         4        4        -        -         -       7
aldp  jr                              ona            2         2         -                 -        41,000             2        2                 -         -       4
lpohut                                one            4         4                                    a-  -  8  BO       2        2             -             -       5
T.V.                                  ad             2         2         -        -                 4      t0O         1        1                                  2
V.H1S.                                Id             2         2         -                          4      500         1        1                      -            2        R
Sh9  Tran   equIpment                                                                                                    43       43                                  a s8
TOdW                                                                                                                      1,004    16837    1,487      778      134    5,241



Health Serces Reform Project
Table 7.2. State Management Sys.(HW & SW)
Detaled Costs
(USS)
Quanties                                         Base Cost cm)
Unit   1995        1998    1997    1998  999   TobTl  Unt Cost 1995   1996   1997    798    Totl
1. hnvesment Costs
A. Hantware & saftWars
1. Hoep. E& NI (S hasp)
servers(lptosp)                     Uw           -       6        -      -  -                6,000            36      -        -       36
computes (12 p0hosp)                uit          -      72        -      -  -         72    3,000       -   216        -       -      216
s      (ftwar.( phop)               pkge                 6        -      -  -          6   15,000       -     90      -        -       90
WPinters (12 phsp)                  uit          -      72        -      -            72      500             3        -       -       36
pr    (hoser) 1 phop                wulit                6        -      - 6           6    1,500              9       -       -        9
SubtI Hasp. U & IV (6 hasp)                                                                                                       -     387
2. Hosp. I & 1(19 hosp.)
servem (I piosp)                    uit          -       -       19      -  -         19    6,000       -      -    114        -      114
computrs (9 Phsop)                  unit         -       -      171      -  -        171    3,000       -      -   513         -      513
software(l poSDp)                   pkge         -       -       19      -  -         19    7,500       -      -    143        -      143
pwrners (9 pf osp)                  uit                  -      171      -  -        171      375       -      -    64         -       64
priner(laser) I phosp               unXt                 -       19      -  -         19    1.125       -      -     21        -       21
Subtotal Hosp. I * I (19 hosp                                                                             -5                      -
3. Health Dbrisc  (20)
server (I p/ditict)                 unt          -      20        -      -  -         20    6,000       -   120        -       -      120        
computers (4 pidlabict)            uwit          -      80        -      -  -         80    3,000       -   240        -              240
software ( p/ds*ict)                pkge                20        -       -  -        20   15,000       -   300        -        -     300
printes (4 pfdistrQ                 unk          -      80        -      -  -         80      500       -    40        -       -       40
prifter (hser) 1 pdridct            unit                20        -      -  -         20    1,500   _         30       -       -       30
Subtotal Health Districts (20)                                                                            -              -        -
4. Regions (4)
server (1 pkegion)                  unit        4                 -       -  -         4    6,000     24       --                      24
oomputers (12 p/region)             unt        48        -        -        -          48    3,000    144       -       -        -     144
oftware  (1phlgon)                  pkge        4        -        -      -  -          4   15,000      0       -               -        o
pinters (12 preaion)                uni        48        -        -                   48      500     24       --                      24
prMine (Wser) 1 pkregion)          uwit         4        -        -      -  -          4    1,500      6                       -        6
Subtotal regions (4)                                                                                                              -
Subbtal Hardware   software                                                                                        58 5             - 2
B. Trunng ("ya) /a                     amount                                                               -   420        -        -      40
Total nnesbtent Costs                                                                                       -     737      5        ---T0
N. Recuwrrt Costs
A Stppes (papers, dikettes, etc) lb    amount                                                                     63     63       63      252
B. Maintenance (eq) k                  amount                                                                                    164      327
Total Recurret Cost -sl    63                                                                                                       227 - 7W
Total                                                                                                       -So       -       T     2t 369
%a Trai9 costs ore $10000computer Mice over te project year.
ib $170 p  romnputer pr year stt yer 2 (total comptems: 371).
kc Mainenanc coss ore 10% of the tota hardware cost (stats year 4)



Tb S. W&LO Dw. upportf ud
DO    Cost
NSS)
QUM*"                            Unt                      Bas cost CM)
Un      1996    1996    1997    1998    19          TotWl    Cost    199      199     1997    1996    1999    TotWl
L Inwsst Cost
A.Stuy&TA (DRSJ
1. TechrlWl Assst
coordn. ORS. & PSMMENSS*            uncut                                                                              63      63       63      63      251
coord.DRSkwrWONaor                   eou                                                                                                go      06      394
rsgiiNd b"       d                  uncut                                                                              64      64       64      64      257
sol mPpn ofhea  dh                  uncu                                                                              146     146      146      146     583
cof      donlyU                      nt                                                                        -      103     163      163      163     650
conmbf, *a_w    ig   & *ordbl                                                                                          36      36       36       36     144
SuboWl Tedlnc Asssbnce                                                                                                  570     570      570      570    2,279
2. TraWl & per dienm
cooin. DRS. & PASME, IVSS, o.       u                                                                          *t8              8        I        a      31
coord.  D      wRSw k*rso           unut*                                                                              12       12      12       12      48
sgif siudy                          ncnt                                                                                8       8        6        8      32
socal ,uppg d hm      b dmt*                                                                                          24      24       24       24      95
commukias.bm                        uncu                                                                               44      44       44       44     177
ccWnsItf, shg or &albkn o unct                                                                                          2 2     2        2        2      10
Subobl Tral & per dem                                                                                                    96      96       98      96      392
S. Train
socilr epping    W hldistd          wnait                                                                     32      32                                 64
SUbbbISIdy*&TA (DRS)                                                                                              32      700     668      668      666    2,735
B.Stuy&TA(Faclus
conwsung uanics                      unc*t    570                                                                               570      570     570    2,282
Tani                                  unout                                                                             127     127      127      127    S5
trwu&perdum               *ncu                                                                                           67      67       67       87     348
Subal stuy & TA (Fac0e)                                                                                                   785     785       75     5       3,139
Totl                                                                                                                32    1,484    1,452    1,452   1,452    S,574



92                               ANNEX VII
- -R  ^- - - - - - - - - - - ---  -  - - -
- - -    e - -e -0 - - - - -0 o o
| } |  |  4  s * w e cb s e e w e o s p4
Ij~~~~~~~~~~a
I                   ---8----88-- RRR                       -       
X!   I   ___________________    ttt*t   _-. 
If___________-ttw                                        _.
I___________                                  st         _.
~ ~~~    ill  ~~____________               ltht       _~            I
|   |iet   ttttlttttAttLEtEt ttltt    tg   tt    {t         
I|IIIQlgIIIIIiI]ttsittlIz x"tlll0g|,ml.'I ii ul             !!E2!



Heal ai m  Return PjW
T*le 10. CIh* RdiuI ln ,uW Equinw  /a
Ddailed Cot
Unit     1S       1M      1i7      1        131    ToTl    Cost    11          11#      1m9l    199       1        Tow
L hwutmat Costa
L  k,rstutsar
p*dtp                                WAo                                                                       Be98    84       82       64        -       326
a          *         n              m t                                                                         -   1,632    1,8i9    1,056    1,40      6,816
hls9sdJon                          U Jout                                                                             195      168      165      128      6O6
em_ir_ Nub nwqunun mat                                                                                          .    74   74   74   37   Zs
Sublo n W    uft                                                                                                 98    1.96    U213    2,156    16         6O,60
B E*OWlru
ud                                 Mud                                                                                361      499      614      460     1,934
laW i                              unowt                                                                        -   290    4,9    4,965    3,742    15,68
maid  _ggpiy                *        ga                                                                                30       30       30       15       105 W
Subotl EquTmt                                                                                                       _3,311    4,5       5,609   4,217    17,765
Totl hvwub         Coss                                                                                            96    5,296    6,781    7,767    5,822    25,764
L Rtcxru Costs
A. Maintansa
kihbudwu                           unut                                                                       364     364      364      364      364     1,819
fidq"i* r                          munmt                                                                        1        1       I        1        1         5
manidurt                            nt                                                                        97       97       97       97       97       486
m    id  M lMP     t               mut                                                                          -       3        a       13       14        36
Simab    Mmwnuic 4o2                                                                                                    465      468      475      476     2,346
som  Wt       P.M _m meat                                                                                    293      23       29       293      293     1,464
Totl RecArun t Costs                                                                                              755     757      761      768      760     3,810
Tota                                                                                                              852    6,054    7,542    8,535    6,592    29,574
Tdal No.aftuWoiy dinics b be rebied a e427. (Fabon: 90; MM: 107; Tn4Uo: 95; Zukla: 135)



HoMSammRdPmwt
TaMi 11. HaspiW  Rdhion N  Eq4*Mw 1s
DoiladeCosts
(US$)
QuofW                            U                        Bas cost CM@)
Unit    1995    1996       1997    1s6    19o"       Total    Cost    16       1        19 7     Im        #m9      ToWa
L krsbit   Costs
A Marntuuotrf
K*Ctdwp                            wout                                                                                497                                  497
hIwN    ii_ tdo n                  uut  t                                                                                -   5,596      5,596            11,192
hipecion                           unout                                                                                 -     497       407                95
md        N  -                     moist                                                                        -     -112               112         -      223
SuiMtal wh auct                                                                                                          497   6X         6,X          -   1,07
B Eqlmt
fhud                                n t                                                                         -        -        -      706      708      1,416
nanmd                              mnta                                                                         -        *        -    5,557    5,557    11,114
sd    mnu,iNqmht                   wnout                                                                        -w-e9                    151       12      Z12
Totl       _ i mCst                                                                                                  -     497    6,744    13,521    6,M      27,539
L Reurrent Costs
A. Malntwmna
h1 uirure                          unomLt                                                                     606    6a        606       606      O        3,032
find q*ist                         mnot                                                                        as       86       a6       8s       86       431
nAnr d.iMt                         untcuSt6                                                                                                       u        30489
mid         manqwt                 m     t                                                                      *        *        *       21      142       163
Subtota Ma lmi.n                                                                                               1,390    1,390    1,390    1,412    1,532     7,115
L Operatin costs
MoIIIIIIImmNIMP    t                moist                                                                       -              349       6        696      1,746
Total                                                                                                            1,390    1,888    8,484    15,631    9,008    340
%ITotW  No. haspbi tosiber-aIL atmdu4 (ifor each ate)



95
ANNEX vm
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE PROJECT
American Society for Health Care Materials Management. Developing Materials Management
Job Descriptions. 1992.
Avila, Lizardo for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Sistema de Control de Gesti6n Hositalaria. 1993.
Bessalel, M.M. for The World Bank (LA2). Solid Waste II: Hospital Waste Manaeement
Oueretaro and Puebla. Volume 1 of 2 - Report. May 1993.
Bohigas, Lluis for the World Bank. Los Hospitales en Venezuela. Working Paper for Health
Sector Report. November 1991.
Brazil Ministry of Health. Manual de Planejamento. Pro-gramacao e Projeto Ffsico dos
Estabelecimentos Assistenciais de Saude. Draft.
CONFARVEN for MSAS Proyecto Salud. lnforme: Provecto Gerencia de Materiales. March
1993.
Corrales, Werner for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Plan Estrategico del Provecto Modernizacion de
HosD1ta. August 1993.
Corrales, Werner for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Plan General del Provecto Modernizaci6n de
HospitaLks. September 1993.
Delgado, Neira for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Informe de Avance Gesti6n de Materiales.
September 1993.
Dompieri, Sergio for the World Bank. Componente de Rehabilitaci6n F(sica. April 1993.
Gaceta Oficial No. 33. 745. ley Orgdnica del Sistema Nacional de Salud. June 23, 1987.
Gaceta Oficial No. 4153 - Extraordinario. Lev Orgdnica d Descentralizaci6n v Transferencia
de Competencia del Poder Publico. December 28, 1989.
Garcfa, Haydee for the World Bank. Comportamiento Financiero del Sector Publico de Salud.
Working Paper for World Bank Health Sector Report. November 1991.
G6mez Cova, David for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Definici6n de la Misi6n v Pro-grama Funcional
de los HosDitales Pilotos. September 1993.
Gonzales Mestre, Xavier for the World Bank. Descentralizaci6n de Servicios de Salud en
Venezuela. 1991.
Hernaiz Arnal, Olga for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Propuesta de Organizaci6n de la Oficina de
Coordinaci6n. June 1992.



96
Lara Estrella, Luis; Algarra Cardenas, Alirio; D'Elia Gil, Antonio; Mijares Seminario, Rodrigo
and Martinez D'Allesandro, Antonio (FUNINDES-ISB) for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Plan para
la Provisi6n de EauiDpos Hospitalarios de Alta Prioridad: Ip"orme Final. March 1993.
Melean, Heclenys. Irforrne de la Oficina RecuDeradora de Costos del Hospital de Cabimas Dr.
Adol&f D EmDaire. 1993.
Molinos, Miriam for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Propuesta para la Organizaci6n v Gerencia del
Provecto 'Modemizaci6n de Hospitales". June 1993.
MSAS. Gerencia de Materiales: Informe Ffnal. May 1993.
MSAS. Manual de Licitacion para Informdtica. May 1992.
MSAS. Plan EstratWgico v Provecto de Automatizacion. June 1992.
MSAS. Programacion Ambulatorio Rural lIDo 1. Ambulatorio Rural wao II. Ambulatorio
Urbawo ~D~o I. Ambulatorlo Urbawo TiZ,o I. Ambulatorio Urbano TDo Ill. June 1990.
MSAS. Propuesta Comonente Modernizacin de Hsitales Banco Mundial. 1993.
MSAS. Reglamentos de los Departamentos de Cirug(a. Obstetricia v Ginecologta. Medicina v
ediatr(a. 1986.
MSAS Proyecto Salud. Gufa Metodol6gica para la Formulaci6n de Planes Estadales de Salud.
March 1994.
MSAS Proyecto Salud. Gufas nara los Pro-gramas Funcionales v Arauitect6nicos-Ambulatorios
Urbanos 111. Draft. November 1993.
MSAS Proyecto Salud. Programa Funcional v Arauitect6nico: Ambulatorio Urbanw  Do Il.
Hospitals   os. Draft. November 1993.
Ottolina, Rhona. Provecto Piloto tiara una Modema Gesti6n Hospitalaria. July 1991.
Padron Acosta, Gerardo for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Estudio Epidemiologico Preliminar de las
Areas de Influencia de los Hosnitales Pilotos. September 1993.
Quiroga, Raul and Salgado, Antonio for Federal Government of Caracas. Proyecto del Sistema
de Informaci6n del Hosital de Niflos J.M. De los Rios. December 1991.
Rachadell, Manuel. El ReBimen Jurfdico-Administrativo de los Servicios Pliblicos de Salud v
las Bases Para su Reforna. October 1991.



97
Revello Sanchez, Waldo A. Modelos de Financiamiento en Salud. June 1994.
Salbuqui, Antonio for MSAS Proyecto Salud.  Alternativas Jurtdicas Factibles tpara la
Autonomfa de Gesti6n en Hospitales v Demds Establecimientos de Salud. March 1994.
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto Salud. Manual de Organizaci6n v Procedimientos Internos
(MOPI). Draft. November 1993.
Urbano, Joao for the World Bank. Analise da SituacOo do Sector Hospital na Venezuela - Os
Sistemas de Ifiormacao. Working Paper for Health Sector Report. November 1991.
Viveros, Francisco for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Fortalecimiento Institucional v Reforrnas:
Descentralizaci6n de los Servicios de Salud v Autonomfa Hosfitalaria. 1993.
Viveros, Francisco for MSAS Proyecto Salud.  Marco de Autonomfa Hosnitala"a v
Descentralizaci6n del Sistema de Salud Pugblica.
Yafez Betancourt, Leopoldo for MSAS Proyecto Salud. Determinaci6n de la Canacidad
Financiera del Pats para Hacer Frente a la Contra93artida Local  a los Costos de Operaci6n
y Mantenimiento de las Inversione. 1993.






NETHFRIANI)s ANTILLIFs|
72                                   , N t I TH)  68                                            E4U
- ,  ~~~~~~~~~ ~V E N E Z U E L A
12'J*|te sdd
I, R,,.,l,d, O1-d i,Shl,OiW-d                    HEALTH  SERVICES REFORM  PROJECT
MWtgdria I,Idnd                     TRINIDAD
AND
Dto.Federal                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~TOBAGO
CARACAS                          ~~Sucre
Monagas                                                        / ,'' it1
ortugues  Guarico                                                       ~~~~~Delta
Meri a                                                                               nzoategui                         Amacuro
LA   J             J ~~~~~~~~Barinasy                     ._8 -_\
c  ra
Apure                    5Bolivar 
KltOtNAt IERS  -                                                                              ~                                                                                        ) GUYANA
Approximate) ScaleW                                                        / 
DOtMIN AN
JAMAICA  ffAITI5 RUPUBLIK       1.
HONDUORAS
I'sCK A                      of M,p R                 4                                                                                                   Project States
CIA,PANAMA                                                                       A
RICA    J    ENZUELA                                                               Amazonas                                                              National Capital
CO~~~ OMIP t  (jR GUIANA                                                                                                    ____                                       Bonare
colBI                  (  GUIANAState or Federal Territory Boundaries
ECUADO)                                                                                                                                               International Boundaries
Boundaries on this map are stylized
COLOMBIA                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anid the stale Is app~roximate
PERD  BRA7It                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thecrefore the areas of the States and
PERU<\) B R A 7 I 1  _ s \/\                                                      J                               Federal Territories are approximate only.
The b-udr,es, coos-eomnto                 od  any  other   frnaii
lIt )[ VIA                                                                sho,'cn an P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,s -op do not tnply, on the part of The World 13ank 
Group, any judgment  on the legot status of an,y territory, or any
B RAZ IL    68endorsemet or accept an-  af such boundariloes
CHII \L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~68                                        11                                                1)                                                       a,
-             CAll   ]rTua                                                                                 I                                                                                          o1 
SIll,[\TI\S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



