Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3823-VE
                              Loan Agreement
                     (Health Services Reform Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated October 12, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3823-VE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter signed on November
10, 1994 from the Borrower's Minister of Health setting forth
its policies and objectives for the public health sector
(hereinafter called the Health Program);
      WHEREAS the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that
the execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower's Law "Ley que Autoriza al Ejecutivo Nacional para la
Contratacion y Ejecucion de Operaciones de Credito Publico
Durante el Ejercicio Fiscal" published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette Issue No. 4831 dated December 29, 1994;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's central bank,
Banco Central;
      (b)   "Convenio de Descentralizacion" means the agreement
that is entered into between the Borrower and a State pursuant
to article 6 of the Borrower's Ley Organica de
Descentralizacion Delimitacion y Transferencia de Competencias
del Poder Publico (Decentralization Law), dated December 20,
1989 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
Extraordinary issue dated December 28, 1989;
      (c)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of
measuring progress in the implementation of the Project as such
indicators are included in the letter from the Bank to the
Borrower of even date herewith;
      (d)   "Operational Committee" means the committee to be
established by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 6.01 (f) of
this Agreement, for purposes of the overall monitoring of the
implementation of the Project, such committee to be composed of
the regional directors of health of each Project State and the
coordinator of the PCU;
      (e)   "Operational Manual" means the operational manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the rules and
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including
procedures for the use of the Special Account (as hereinafter
defined), criteria and procedures for the implementation of
Parts A.8 and B.3 of the Project, and the eligibility criteria
for rehabilitation works and equipment acquisition under Part
C of the Project; such manual to be approved by MH pursuant to
Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank;
      (f)   "MH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (g)   "PCU" means the unit, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
established within MH pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement; such unit to be responsible for the overall
management of the Project including those Project
implementation and supervision functions described in the
Operational Manual;
Page  3
      (h)   "Procurement Agency Contractual Arrangements" means
any of the agreements to be entered into pursuant to Section
6.01 (a) and Part 3 (g) and (h) of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement;
      (i)   "Project State" means any of the States of Aragua,
Falcon, Trujillo and Zulia or any other substitute State which
may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and "Project
States" means all of the four States;
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "State" means each of the estados, political
autonomous divisions established in the Constitution of
Venezuela, and the Federal District (Distrito Federal) of the
Borrower;
      (l)   "Participation Agreement" means the agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, to be entered into
between the Borrower, through MH, and a Project State pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement; and
      (m)   "Transfer Program" means any of the programs
submitted by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Part 3 (d) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifty-four million dollars
($54,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Page  4
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
             (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                   cost, as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                   annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                   the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
                   excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after
                   July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                   determined otherwise than as provided in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
            "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of such Quarter."
            "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Minister of Health is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  5
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts A, B.1 (a) and B.2 of
                   the Project, through MH and with the
                   collaboration of the Project States, with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                   with appropriate administrative, financial,
                   health, environmental and technical practices,
                   and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
                   funds, facilities, services and other
                   resources required for such Parts of the
                   Project; and
            (ii)   shall cause the Project States to carry
                   out Parts B.1 (b), B.3 and C of the
                   Project with due diligence and efficiency
                   and in conformity with appropriate
                   administrative, financial, health,
                   environmental and technical practices,
                   shall take or cause to be taken all
                   action, including the provision of funds,
                   facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable the
                   Project States to carry out such Parts of
                   the Project, and shall not take or permit
                   to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with the carrying
                   out of such Parts of the Project by the
                   Project States.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower, through MH, shall carry out
Parts A, B.1 (a) and B.2 of the Project, and shall cause
Project States to carry out Parts B.1 (b), B.3 and C of the
Project, all in accordance with the Operational Manual and the
annual investment programs approved by the Bank pursuant to
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower, through MH, shall:
(i) enter into an agreement (Participation Agreement) with each
Project State to make available to the latter the Loan proceeds
necessary to carry out Parts B.1 (b), B.3 and C of the Project
in such Project State under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank including those set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and (ii) duly perform all of its
obligations under each Participation Agreement, and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, assign, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any of the Participation
Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts B.1 (b), B.3 and C of the Project shall be
carried out by the Project States.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.07 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, the
Borrower, through MH, shall furnish to the Bank:
      (a)   not later than February 28 of each year of Project
Page  6
execution, progress reports on the Project, of such scope and
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter
alia: (i) information on the progress achieved in the
implementation and in the achievement of the objectives of the
Project based, inter alia, on the Monitoring Indicators; (ii)
an assessment of the problems and issues derived from the
implementation of the Project; and (iii) information on the
compliance by the Project States of their obligations under the
respective Participation Agreement and, if the case may be, a
plan of actions detailing the adjustments and remedial action
to be taken for their compliance with such obligations;
      (b)   for its review and approval, not later than
February 28 of each year of Project execution, a proposed
annual investment program providing for the activities,
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of each
Part of the Project during the upcoming year.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 (a) (i) of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through MH, shall:
      (a)   not later than March 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project, starting in 1996, hold annual reviews
with the Bank and the Project States, such reviews to be based
on the reports referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on: (i) the evaluation of
the progress in the execution and in the achievement of the
objectives of the Project based on, among other factors, the
Monitoring Indicators; (ii) the proposed annual investment
program for the Project in the upcoming year; (iii) any changes
in the Project design and implementation that may be necessary;
and (iv) the progress in the implementation of the action plan
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (b)   if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
shall have reasonably determined that the progress in the
execution of the Project or in the attainment of the objectives
of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to
be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the
Bank's rights under this Agreement, all such action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the
efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its
objectives.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than January 15, 1996, based on the results
and recommendations of the studies under Part A of the Project
design pilot programs, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, in respect of the above studies as provided in Part A of
the Project;
      (b)   not later than June 30, 1997, present to the Bank a
plan, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with follow-up
measures and actions to each of the above pilot programs, such
plan to be based on the results of the pilot programs; and
      (c)   implement, or cause to implement, the plan of actions
and measures referred to in paragraph (b) above in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
execution and coordination of the Project:
      (a)   operate and maintain, through MH, the PCU and the
Operational Committee with an organizational structure,
functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   cause each Project State to maintain a coordinator,
with functions, qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank, to manage the implementation by the respective
Page  7
Project State of the Project activities under its
responsibility; and
      (c)   ensure that a steering committee, composed of the
minister of health and each of the Project State governors,
reviews and approves the proposed annual investment programs
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
      Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a
consolidated set of records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project; and (ii) cause each Project State to maintain records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project activities carried out
by the respective Project State.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other
                   information concerning said records and
                   accounts and the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for
                   the Fiscal Year in which the last
Page  8
                   withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was
                   made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to
                   in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                   the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure
                   submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
provided, however, that in respect of any of the events
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) below, the Bank
may limit the suspension of disbursement of Loan proceeds only
in respect to the Part or Parts of the Project, or portion or
portions thereof, affected by the event in question:
      (a)   a Project State has failed to perform any of its
obligations under the respective Participation Agreement;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that a Project State
will be able to perform its obligations under the respective
Participation Agreement;
      (c)   the Procurement Agency Contractual Arrangements have
been terminated without the Bank's consent;
      (d)   the Decentralization Law shall have been amended,
abrogated, suspended, waived, repealed or altered in any manner
so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the
Bank, the achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
      (e)   the Transfer Program has not been implemented in
accordance with its terms and provisions.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (e)
of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement has occurred in relation
to two or more Project States and shall continue for a period
of ninety days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of ninety days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
Page  9
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower, through MH, has entered into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with a procurement agent
acceptable to the Bank for purposes of retaining the
procurement agent to assist the Borrower in the procurement of
goods and services under Parts A and B.2 of the Project;
      (b)   the Borrower, through MH, has formally established
the PCU and has employed or appointed a supervisor for each of
Part A, B and C of the Project to serve in the PCU, all three
supervisors with functions, qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank;
      (c)   the State of Falcon and the State of Aragua have
each: (i) entered into a Participation Agreement; and (ii)
formally employed or appointed a coordinator, with functions,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to
manage the implementation by the respective Project State of
the Project activities under its responsibility;
      (d)   the transfer of health services from MH to the State
governments in the States of Falcon and Aragua has become
legally and operationally effective in a manner satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank;
      (e)   the Borrower, through MH, has formally approved the
Operational Manual; and
      (f)   the Borrower has established, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the Operational Committee.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   the Participation Agreements referred to in Section
6.01 (c) of this Agreement shall have been duly authorized or
ratified by the respective parties thereto, and are legally
binding upon said parties in accordance with their respective
terms; and
      (b)   the transfer of health services referred to in
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement has become effective in
accordance with applicable contractual and legal provisions.
      Section 6.03. The date January 10, 1996 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Direccion General
            Sectorial de Finanzas Publicas
            Edificio Norte, Piso 5
            Centro Simon Bolivar
            Caracas 1010, Venezuela
Page  10
                                           Telex:
                                             24215 HDACP
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                         By /s/ Luis Raul Matos Azocar
                                                Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated                 % of
                              (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works               11,900,000               60%
(2)  Computer Equipment         2,500,000              100%
(3)  Equipment other           21,000,000              100% of foreign
     than computer                                     expenditures
     equipment
(4)  Training                   4,400,000              50%
(5)  Consultants'              10,100,000              100% of foreign
     Services                                          expenditures
Page  11
(6)  Unallocated                4,100,000
                               __________
        TOTAL                  54,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) through (5) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after October 12, 1994;
      (b)   subject to the provision of paragraph (f) below,
payments made for expenditures under the Project in a Project
State or for the benefit of a Project State unless the Bank has
received: (i) a duly certified copy of the Participation
Agreement entered into between the Borrower and the Project
State in question; (ii) an opinion, satisfactory to the Bank,
of counsel acceptable to the Bank stating that such
Participation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
the respective parties thereto and is legally binding upon said
parties in accordance with its respective terms;
      (c)   subject to the provision of paragraph (f) below,
payments made for expenditures under Parts B.1 (b) and C in a
Project State, unless the respective Project State has entered
into a Convenio de Descentralizacion regarding the transfer of
health services in such Project State under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
      (d)   subject to the provision in paragraph (f) below,
payments made for expenditures in a Project State under Part C
of the Project, unless the Bank has received a time bound
program, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the transfer
of health services in the respective Project State, including
the health personnel, budgetary resources and property
(bienes);
      (e)   payments for expenditures under the Project unless
the respective expenditures are included in an annual
investment program submitted by the Borrower to the Bank
pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and approved by
the Bank;
      (f)   payment made for expenditures incurred after June 30,
1997 under the Project in, or for the benefit of, the States of
Zulia or Trujillo, unless the requirements set forth in
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) have been fulfilled by the above
date;
      (g)   payments made for expenditures under Part B.1 (a) of
the Project unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank, showing that the Borrower has entered into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with a procurement agent
acceptable to the Bank for purposes of retaining the
procurement agent to assist the Borrower in the procurement of
services under Part B.1 (a) of the Project; and
Page  12
      (h)   payments made for expenditures for equipment under
Part C of the Project in a Project State, unless the respective
Project State has entered into an agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, with a procurement agent acceptable to the Bank for
purposes of retaining the procurement agent to assist the
respective Project State in the procurement of goods under Part
C of the Project.
5.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for works not exceeding
$500,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for goods not exceeding
$200,000 equivalent; and (c) contracts for consultants'
services not exceeding $100,000 in the case of consulting firms
and $20,000 in the case of individuals, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving health outcomes for the users of government health
services in the Project States by: (a) redefining its health
policies in connection with the organization and financing of
government health services; (b) strengthening the capabilities
in the Project States to plan and manage health services in a
decentralized framework; and (c) rehabilitating the physical
infrastructure of hospitals and ambulatory clinics and
replacing their basic equipment.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Policy Analysis and Reform
1.    (a)   A study to identify options for granting legal and
functional autonomy to hospitals and ambulatory clinics for
improving their management, resource allocation and
performance; and (b) a pilot program to implement autonomy in
hospitals and/or ambulatory clinics in the Project States.
2.    (a)   A study to develop an alternative model for the
organization and staffing of health facilities to achieve the
most equitable and cost effective provision of health services;
and (b) a pilot program to implement such model in the Project
States.
3.    (a)   A study to identify the health services which should
be entitled to the highest government financing including an
identification of the health interventions, criteria and
methodology to determine financing strategies and timetable for
redirecting public spending towards those identified health
interventions and administrative mechanisms; and (b) a pilot
program to implement a reallocation of public expenditures to
those health services identified as most appropriate for
government financing in the Project States.
4.    (a)   A study to identify preferred mechanisms for transfer
of resources from the national government to the State
governments and from the latter to the health facilities and to
determine the appropriate level of resources to be transferred
to each entity; and (b) a pilot program to implement an
improved mechanism for resource allocation in the health sector
in the Project States.
5.    (a)   A study to develop a strategy and mechanisms for
performance agreements between the MH and States and the latter
and health facilities and to identify management and health
targets to be incorporated in such agreements; and (b) a pilot
Page  13
program to introduce the utilization of performance agreements
in the Project States.
6.    (a)   A study to analyze costs and develop financing
alternatives for such costs in public health facilities; and
(b) a pilot program to introduce cost systems and financing
alternatives in public health facilities in the Project States.
7.    A program for strategic image management consisting of:
(a) training of MH and government health personnel of the
Project States, and other States which may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, in negotiations, conflict resolution
and effective communication; (b) design and operation of
systems for tracking public opinion; (c) training of MH
personnel in strategic image management and public relations;
and (d) design of a communications strategy.
8.    A program to support analysis of selected health policy
matters in the health sector.
Part B:     Institutional Development
1.    (a)   A program for training approximately 1300 government
health personnel of the Project States, and other States which
may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, in basic
management including quality control and productivity and
development of management skills; and (b) a program for
complementary management training of approximately 4,000
government health personnel of the Project States to strengthen
skills and knowledge in, inter alia, community participation,
labor legislation, human resources, maintenance, training
supervision and conflict resolution.
2.    (a)   The design and operation of systems for: (i) human
resource management; (ii) strategic planning; (iii) drugs and
materials management; (iv) infrastructure and equipment
maintenance; (v) financial administration; (vi) waste
management; (vii) epidemiological information; (viii)
management information to support the above systems; and (b)
training of MH personnel and government health personnel of the
Project States to operate the above systems.
3.    A program to support institutional development activities
in the Project States to improve their organization and
financing of government health services and to support the
operation of the systems in Part B.2 of the Project.
Part C:     Strengthening of Health Service Delivery
1.    Rehabilitation of one hospital in each Project State
including: (a) the acquisition and utilization of equipment,
instruments, utensils, furniture and vehicles; (b) the
establishment of methods and procedures for systematic
equipment replacement and for disposal of obsolete and non-
functional equipment; (c) the preparation of inventories of
existing equipment; and (d) the design of equipment catalogues
for hospitals of different levels of complexity.
2.    Rehabilitation of approximately 427 ambulatory clinics in
the Project States including the acquisition and utilization of
equipment, instruments, utensils, furniture and vehicles
related thereto.
                                   * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Page  14
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
      beginning August 15, 2000
      through February 15, 2010                  2,700,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
Page  15
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
3.    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use, or cause the Project
States to use, the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall
have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause the Project
States to use, bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
4.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works and
contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more in the
case of works and $200,000 or more in the case of goods.
5.    Computing equipment shall be procured, when appropriate,
under a two-step procedure, satisfactory to the Bank, for
technical and price bids.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Venezuela may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$7,900,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $10,600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$4,300,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
Page  16
equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded directly in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works and each
contract for goods procured under the procedures referred to in
Part A.1 of this Schedule, each contract for works estimated to
cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more and procured under the
procedures referred to in Part C.1 of this Schedule, and the
first two contracts for goods procured under the procedures in
Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and the Project States, in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause
the Project States to employ, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ, or cause the Project States to employ, such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause the Project States to
use, other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
Page  17
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent in the case of
consulting firms and $20,000 equivalent in the case of
individuals. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts, to
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Bank, to contracts for
consultants services under Part A of
the Project or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, in the case of
consulting firms, or $20,000 equivalent or above in the case of
individuals.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                   for deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Bank the documents and other evidence
                   required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                   Schedule for the payment or payments in
                   respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Page  18
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                   and deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by
                   said documents and other evidence to have
                   been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
Page  19
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
           Terms and Conditions of the Participation Agreements
1.    Obligations of each Project State
      (a)   carry out its part of the Project, under the
direction and coordination of MH, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health,
financial, technical, administrative and environmental
standards, the Operational Manual and the annual investment
programs approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement;
      (b)   provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required to
carry out its respective part of the Project;
      (c)   have the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement apply to any procurement of civil works, goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for
purposes of the parts of the Project to be carried out by the
Project State in question;
      (d)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the parts
of the Project to be carried out by the Project State in
question and provide the Borrower access to all such records
and accounts necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with
its obligations under Section 4.01 and Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
      (e)   carry out, the obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
with regard to the parts of the Project to be carried out by
the Project State in question;
      (f)   promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower, of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Project State in question
of its obligations under the relevant Participation Agreement.
      (g)   shall furnish to the Borrower for purposes of its
compliance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement:
            (i)    not later than January 31 of each year of
                   Project execution, progress reports, of such
                   scope and detail as the Borrower may
                   reasonably request, on the progress achieved
                   in the implementation of the Project
                   activities under its responsibility; and
           (ii)    not later than January 31 of each year of
                   Project execution, a proposed annual
                   investment program providing for the
                   activities, implementation schedule and
                   proposed budget in respect of the Project
                   activities under its responsibility;
      (h)   shall participate in the annual reviews referred to
in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and shall take any action
pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   shall maintain a coordinator, with functions,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to
Page  20
manage the implementation of the Project activities under its
responsibility;
      (j)   shall allocate adequate resources for the health
services in the respective Project State including adequate
resources for materials and maintenance expenditures in
accordance with a program agreed with the Borrower and the
Bank. Such program may be revised in the annual reviews
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; and
      (k)   shall: (i) cooperate with the Borrower in the
carrying out of the studies under Part A of the Project
including access to all information and documentation necessary
for such purposes; (ii) cooperate with the Borrower in the
preparation of the pilot programs referred to in Section 3.06
(a) of this Agreement; (iii) implement the parts of the above
pilot programs under its responsibility; (iv) cooperate with
the Borrower in the preparation of the plan referred to in
Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; and (v) implement the
actions and measures of the above action plan under its
responsibility.
2.    Other Provisions
      Each Participation Agreement shall also include the
following provisions:
      (a)   the Project State's adherence to the Health Program;
      (b)   the right of each Project State to the use of the
funds provided under the respective Participation Agreement,
including the proceeds of the Loan, shall be subject to
suspension or termination upon failure by such Project State to
perform its obligations under the respective Participation
Agreement;
      (c)   all the provisions of the Participation Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions or
suspension or termination referred to in subparagraph (a)
above; and
      (d)   for the States of Zulia and Trujillo, or any
substitute state thereof, the following provisions shall become
effective once the respective Convenio de Descentralizacion has
been executed pursuant to Part 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement: (i) the provisions in Part 1 (a), (b), (c), (d),
(e), (f) and (g) of this Schedule, with respect to Parts B.1
(b) and C of the Project; and (ii) the provision in Part 1 (j)
of this Schedule.
