Page  1
August 28, 2001
His Excellency
Dr. Nelson Merentes
Minister of Finance
Avenida Urdaneta
Edificio Ramia - Piso 9
Caracas
República Bolivariana de Venezuela
Re:
Loans 3553-VE (Highway Management Project), 3657-VE (Urban 
Transport Project), 3823-VE (Health Services Reform Project), 
3862-VE (Agricultural Extension Project), 3902-VE (Inparques 
Project)
Amendments to the Loan Agreements
Dr. Mr. Minister:
We refer to the Loan Agreements between the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) for the Loans referenced to above, as amended.    We are also referring to the 
discussions that have been held between the Bank and the Government of Venezuela 
regarding new arrangements for disbursement of the Bank Loans in Venezuela that will 
enable direct access for project implementing entities to make payments to their 
domestic and foreign contractors through instructions to the Banco de Desarrollo 
Económico y Social de Venezuela (BANDES) that will act as trustee for the Government.  
Such arrangements are intended to improve expediency, transparency and accountability 
in the disbursement of Bank Loans.  Pursuant to such arrangements, new special 
accounts will be established in BANDES, and the existing special accounts in the 
Central Bank of Venezuela will be phased out.
Therefore, we propose to amend those Loan Agreements as follows:
1.
The definition of "Special Account", in Section 1.02, is amended to read:
"‘Special Account’ means either of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement."
2.
Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, until not later than December 31, 2001, 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the special 
deposit account opened in the Central Bank for purposes of the Project 
(hereinafter called ‘the Central Bank Special Account’); and (ii) for the 
purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account 
in Banco de Desarrollo Económico y Social de Venezuela on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment (hereinafter called ‘the BANDES Special Account’), and in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
The references to Schedule 5 in Section 2.02 (b) above shall be understood to be 
made to Schedule 4 in the case of the Loan Agreement for Loan 3862-VE, and to Schedule 
6 in the case of the Loan Agreement for Loan 3553-VE.
3.
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreements for Loans 3657-VE, 3823-VE and 3902-VE, 
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement for Loan 3862-VE and Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement 
for Loan 3553-VE are amended as follows:
(a)  Paragraph 1 (c) is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"(c) the term ‘Authorized Allocation’ means an amount equal to 10% (ten percent) 
of the Loan amount to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
BANDES Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided 
that, until the Central Bank Special Account is closed, the Authorized 
Allocation shall not exceed the difference between the balance of the Central 
Bank Special Account and an amount equal to 10% of the Loan amount."
Page  2
(b) In paragraph 3, the term "Special Account" is replaced by "BANDES Special 
Account", wherever it appears in such paragraph.
(c) Paragraphs 4 and 5 are amended to read as follows in their entirety:
"4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, but in no 
case later than four months after the Closing Date, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not:
     (a) be required to make further deposits into the BANDES Special Account:
(i) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; or
(iii) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions; and
(b) make further deposits in the Central Bank Special Account."
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the BANDES Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures."
If you agree with the foregoing, please sign and date both originals of this 
letter in the space provided below, and return one to us.  This amendment shall become 
effective on the date of this letter, provided that the Bank receives one original of 
it signed by the representative of the Borrower.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Connie Luff
Acting Director
Country Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
AGREED: 
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Nelson Merentes
Authorized Representative
Date:
September 27, 2001
Page  3
