Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18933
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2355 NIR)
February 10, 1999
Rural Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS UNITS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
EXCHANGE RATE
1988 US$1 = CFAF 298
1990 US$1 = CFAF 272
1992 US$1 = CFAF 265
1994 US$1 = CFAF 555
1996 US$1 = CFAF 512
1998 US$1 =CFAF 550
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVLATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMRT         Atelier Mensuel de Revue de Technologie
(Monthly Technology Review Meeting)
CORRA        Comites R6gionaux de la Recherche Agronomique
(Regional Agricultural Research Committees)
EDA          Equipe de Diagnostic d 'Arrondissement
(District Diagnostic Team)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
INRAN        Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOAL         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOU          Memorandum Of Understanding
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
T&V          Training and Visit
UTNDP        United Nations Development Program
VEW          Village Extension Worker
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:     Theodore 0. Ahlers
Sector Manager:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leaders:    Madicke Niang (Jan 93 - June 95);
Djibril Aw (June 95 - Feb 97)
Turto Turtiainen (March 97 - Aug 97)
Yves-Coffi Prudencio(Sept97-June98)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 2355 NIR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary ........................................ i
PART 1. Project Implementation Assessment .................1....................... 
A. Introduction.                                                                            I
B. Project Objectives                                     .I
B 1. Description of Objectives .1
B2. Evaluation of Objectives and Risks.                                              2
C. Achievement of Objectives.                                                              2
D. Project Cost and Financing.                                                              9
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                                     9
F. Project Sustainability.                                                                  9
G. Bank Peiformance .10
H. Borrower Performance .11
1. Implementation Agency .11
J. Assessment of Outcome .11
K. Future Operations .12
L Key Lessons Leaned .12
PART II. Statistical Tables                ........................................ 13
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments ........................................ 13
Table 2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits ..............            .......................... 14
Table 3.  Project Timetable ........................................ 15
Table 4.  Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................... 16
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................17
Table 6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation ....................        ............... 18
Table 7.  Studies Included in the Project ...................................             18
Table 8A. Project Costs ...............             ....................  19
Table 8B. Project Financing               ...........                ........................ 19
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits ................................... 19



Table of Contents, (continued)                                                  Page
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ........................... 20
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................... 23
Table 12. Bank Resources: Missions .......................... , . , .,. 24
Appendix
Map: 3IBRD 23273



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 2355 NIR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Services
Support Project (PRSAA) for which Credit 2355-NIR in the amount of SDR 12.9 million
(equivalent to US$18 million) was approved on June 12, 1992 and made effective on
January 25, 1993. The credit was closed on June 30, 1998. The last disbursement took
place on October 14, 1998. About 99 percent of the credit was disbursed, and the
undisbursed balance of SDR 89,495 was canceled on January 10, 1999.
The completion report was prepared by Yves-Coffi Prudencio, AFTR3, with
assistance of Daniel Sellen and Soulemane Fofanal, AFTR2, and was reviewed by Joseph
Baah-Dwomoh, Sector Manager, AFTR2, and by Theodore 0. Ahlers, Country Director
for Niger. Preparation of this report began during a mission to Niger in September 1998.
The implementation report is based on the project documents, correspondence,
supervision reports, appraisal report, and Credit Agreement. The Borrower accepted the
Bank's ICR and made no comments (letter attached as Appendix). The Borrower's
twenty-five page report, "Rapport d'Achevemenft, is available upon request. Points
discussed in the ICR are the same as those discussed in the ICR mission's Aide Memoire,
which is also available on request.
1Michel Aklamavo, Amadou Alassane and Salifou Mahaman of the World Bank participated in the
ICR mission along with govermnent and project representatives.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2355-NIR)
Evaluation Summary
A.   Introduction
1.    This Implementation Completion Report evaluates the Agricultural Services
Project in Niger, which was executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
B.   Project Objectives and Activities
2.    The principal objective of the project was to strengthen agricultural, livestock and
environment protection extension to farmers with a view to increase agricultural
production and sustain growth of farmers' incomes.
3.    The activities planned and undertaken to meet the objective included: (a)
reorganization of extension services, supported with adequate human and physical
resources; (b) regular training of responsible officials at every level; (c) strengthening the
linkage between extension and national and regional agricultural research; (d)
strengthening of institutional relationships between crop, livestock and environmental
services; and (e) functional literacy and numeracy training.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
4.    The project contributed substantially institution-building activities, especially to
helping reorganize extension services, strengthening relationships between crop,
livestock, and environmental services, and improving functional literacy. However, it
had serious management problems and failed to demonstrate a substantial achievement in
providing benefits to farmers through technology adoption. Thus, because the principal
development objective of increasing agricultural production and incomes for farmers
through improved extension was not achieved, the project outcome has been rated
globally unsatisfactory.
5.    The project substantially achieved the reorganization of extension services by
providing human and physical resources at the farm, regional and national levels, and
surpassed several of the goals set at appraisal in terms of geographical coverage and
provision of human resources. Improved efficiency of the extension system was partly
achieved by implementing the previously tested training and visits (T&V) system.



- ii -
6.    Training objectives were partly achieved. Regular training of field extension
agents has been substantially carried out and has led to successful multidisciplinary
training of village extension workers (VEW) and their supervisors. However, there have
been severe shortcomings in the training of farmers with only one third of planned
fortnightly sessions carried out. There have also been deficiencies in the training of
management and support staff, particularly in the areas of monitoring and evaluation,
accounting, and financial management. Most training planned to take place outside the
country for responsible officials did not take place due to poor management.
7.    The objective of strengthening the research-extension linkages was partially
achieved. The project was able to get research and extension staff to collaborate and
institutionalize this relationship through memoranda of understanding which assured
cooperation. However the achievements of the research-extension activities, such as on-
farm trials, were often poor in terms of findings and impact.
8.    The objective of improving institutional relationships between crop, livestock,
and environmental services in the Ministry was substantially achieved through the
institutionalization of working relationships between the three types of services at central,
regional and district levels. In particular, the multidisciplinary training of extension
agents achieved under the project is the result of such integration.
9.    The functional literacy objective was substantially achieved. A total of 20,212
farmers, half of them women, were trained under the project.
10.   Technology adoption by farmers of extended technologies was slow  and
insufficient. This was mainly a result of inadequate participatory diagnosis early in the
project to identify and extend demand-driven technologies. A 1998 impact study
suggests that nationwide, and within the contact group farmers, only 5 out of 32 crop
production technologies (16 percent), 5 out of 19 livestock production technologies (26
percent), and 5 out of 13 environment protection technologies (38 percent) had non-
negligible adoption ratios.
11.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was insufficient. The external and internal
M&E systems did not operate effectively during most of the project implementation
period, as a result of inadequate training and lack of support from Government and
project management. As a result, the M&E units were unable to assess project
performance and to guide project management, contributing to the poor performance of
the project.
12.   Financial and administrative management was unsatisfactory throughout the
project period.  Management was highly unstable with eight changes in project
coordinators over a five-year period. Bank project management was similarly unstable.
Audit reports found ineligible and insufficiently justified expenses from 1995 to the end
of the project, which led to the government's reimbursing about 200 million CFAF.



- iii -
D.   Sustainability and Future Operations
13.   The extension system in Niger, is not fmancially sustainable and is not likely to
be so in the near future, given its current design. However human resource development
under the project, through transfer of information and knowledge, is expected to have a
sustainable impact.
14.   Due to the unsatisfactory performance of the project, no direct follow-up
operation has been prepared. However, the government is working on a rural
development strategy that could serve as a basis for more innovative and cost effective
future agricultural services operations.
E.   Borrower and Bank Performance
15.   The performance of the Borrower, including that of its implementation agency,
was mixed, but is judged generally unsatisfactory, mainly as a result of poor financial and
administrative management of the project.
16.   The performance of the Bank was also mixed, and also rated unsatisfactory.
Supervision was quantitatively fair, although insufficient, but qualitatively poor. It was
close to the client and carried out on a regular basis, but was unstable (four Task
managers in five years). Performance indicators with respect to development objectives
were not clearly stated anywhere and were arbitrarily decided by each Task Manager.
Early opportunities for taking decisive actions to improve project management at an early
stage were missed. Procurement delays due to the Bank occurred. Corrective measures
such as retrofitting took place too late and therefore could not sufficiently improve the
performance of the project before its closing date.
F.    Major Lessons Learned
17.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project:
(a)   It is essential to define and phase project objectives by stating clearly at
appraisal the short-term, medium-term, and long-term objectives of the
project and related performance indicators.
(b)   It is essential to ensure, from the beginning of project implementation and
during each supervision, that external and internal monitoring and
evaluation systems use adequate performance indicators, are properly
staffed, are allocated timely and adequate resources for operation and
training, and are not adversely influenced by national project managers.
(c)   Stability of project management must be encouraged, by ensuring that
managers are recruited more on the basis of technical and managerial
competence than on the basis of political affiliation.



-lv -
(d)    Multidisciplinary training of extension agents is feasible and shows
potential to be an effective way of reducing costs of extension services to
small farmers.
(e)    Participatory diagnosis is a critical factor in improving the pertinence of
extended technologies, and therefore the efficiency and the impact of
extension services.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2355 NIR)
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Introduction
1.    At the time of project preparation (1991/92) the crop sector in Niger accounted
for 35 percent of GDP and for 25 percent of exports. Population growth (3.1 percent) far
exceeded growth of food production (1.8 percent), which increased as a result of
expanding cultivated area and not to productivity gains. Agriculture was also hindered
by environmental degradation from desertification and mining of soil fertility. The
livestock sector accounted in 1984-89 for 13 percent of GDP and 12 percent of exports.
It was characterized by poor husbandry practices, chronically low nutritional levels, and
deteriorating grazing resources.
2.    The Government's development strategy aimed at achieving sustainable per
capita income growth with equity. The rural development strategy strove for: (a) food
security; (b) natural resource management; (c) intensification and diversification of
production; and (d) promotion of participation of rural populations and of the private
sector in development activities. IDA, in collaboration with other donors, supported the
strategy through projects with a strong emphasis on agricultural research (Cr.2122-NIR)
and small rural operations (Cr. 1 890-NIR) to promote off-season production. Support to
agricultural services was undertaken initially in 1987-90 as a pilot project, after which
Government decided to implement the resulting extension system nationwide.
B.   Project Objectives
Description of Objectives
3.    The project aimed at strengthening agricultural, livestock and environmental
protection extension with a view to generate increased production and sustained growth
of farm incomes. The project was expected to build on experience gained during the
implementation of the pilot project.
4.    The project included the following activities:
(a)   efficient organization of extension services, supported by adequate human
and physical resources at the farm, regional and national levels;
(b)   regular and continuous training of responsible officials at each level by
means of fortnightly, monthly and annual training sessions, including
courses held outside Niger or conducted by external participants;



-2 -
(c)   strengthening of the linkage between extension and national and regional
agricultural research to address farmers' problems. Technical problems
such as those related to soil and water conservation, diversification of
production, soil fertility, and ecologically adapted varieties were to receive
priority under the adaptive research programs.
(d)   strengthening of linkages between crops, livestock and environmental
services so as to ensure effective extension support for these programs;
(e)   functional literacy and numeracy training for men and women, including
stepped-up promotion of participation by women to enable them to play a
progressively active role in rural development and village activities and
management.
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
5.    In hindsight, first phase objectives of increased production and sustained growth
of farmers' income were too ambitious, given the poor state of the extension system at
the time of project preparation. The project, however, correctly emphasized institution-
building in the first phase, but would have benefited from a clearer definition of the
objectives and performance indicators at each stage.
6.    Project risks identified during preparation were pertinent and properly managed
during project implementation. These included (a) the lack of workable solutions to deal
with farmers' problems; (b) coordination problems between the central administration
and the departmental and district agricultural services; and (c) failure of Government and
donors to sustain a long term commitment to achieve durable improvements.
Unfortunately, several important risks were overlooked and adversely affected the
project. They include: (a) instability in project management due to eight changes of
project manager in five years at the national level and four changes of task managers at
the Bank level; (b) economic recession, leading to delays in salary payments and to low
morale among extension staff, (c) climatic and famine risks, resulting in highly mobile
farmers who were difficult for extension agents to reach; (d) lack of unity in the line of
command at the ministerial level, resulting in conflicting management information flows;
(e) delays in the transfer of accounting documents from regional to central level; and (f)
non-project use of project vehicles by government officials.
C.   Achievement Of Objectives
7.    The Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project did not function properly
and failed to address and measure project's development objectives, which were to
increase agricultural production and farmers' incomes. The project did, however,
substantially achieve some, but not all of its institution building objectives.



-3 -
Organization of Extension Services
8.    The objective of providing the extension services with adequate human and
physical resources at the farm, regional and national levels was substantially achieved,
but the objective of achieving an efficient organization of extension services was only
partially achieved.
9.    The project aimed at improving coordination and efficiency of the extension
services provided to farmers by directorates from three different ministries (directorates
of agriculture/livestock, of environment and of literacy). A coordination unit within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock was in charge of implementing the successfully
tested Training and Visit (T&V) extension system in the project areas.
10.    The project covered, in addition to the three departments of the pilot phase
(Tilaberi, Dosso and Tahoua), the urban district of Niamey and three additional
departments (Zinder, Maradi, Diffa) instead of two, as originally planned at appraisal.
Memoranda of understanding were signed between the project and other agricultural
development projects to minimize conflicts and to achieve complementarity of
interventions.
11.   Staffing was higher than projected at appraisal to deal with the greater
geographical area coverage of the project. By the end of the project (in June 1998)
extension was being implemented by about 1000 agents, including 600 Village Extension
Workers (VEW), compared to 410 VEWs projected at appraisal. In addition, there were
100 district level supervisors, compared to 66 supervisors projected at appraisal. There
were 25 district level coordinators, compared to 18 projected at appraisal. In addition,
there were, at the district level, 52 M&E enumerators, 22 coordinators of women
activities, and 78 subject matter specialists, compared to none projected at appraisal. At
the departmental level, there were 7 Coordinators and 7 Extension Leaders as planned at
appraisal.  Subject matter specialists (20 in SAR) were to be appointed at the
departmental level but were appointed instead at the district level, as mentioned above,
for greater efficiency. In addition, 14 M&E agents, 7 Coordinators of women activities
and 7 training coordinators were appointed at the departmental level, compared to none
planned at appraisal. At the central level there were 11 high level staff, 6 M&E staff and
two training specialists as planned. In addition, there was one Chief Coordinator of
women activities, not planned at appraisal.
12.   Extension coverage expanded substantially during the project period. At closing,
the project coverage grew from near zero to about 80 percent of small scale irrigation
areas (40,000 hectares) as expected at appraisal. However, it could only cover 40 percent
of the 10,000 villages in Niger rainfed cropping areas, compared to the 60 percent target
at appraisal. The number of villages per VEW increased from three in 1993 to seven in
1997 with improved access to transportation. The number of contact group farmers per
VEW increased from 30 in 1993 to 140 in 1997, with each VEW serving about 1,400
agricultural households in the 7 villages covered, This is below the expectation of 2,000
households at appraisal. The number of contact groups increased from 1,828 in 1993 to
8,694 in 1997 with about 2 contact groups per village and 10 farmers per contact group.
The number of VEWs per supervisor increased from 3 in 1993 to 6 at the end of the



-4-
project, within the range (6 to 8) expected at appraisal. With the transfer of subject
matter specialists from departmental to the district levels, there were over 10 Subject
Matter Specialists per department, compared with 4 Subject Matter Specialists during the
pilot phase, and as projected at appraisal.
13.   Farmers' participation in fortnightly working sessions was relatively satisfactory.
During the last year of the project, two-thirds of contact group farmers were attending
regularly and 81 percent of follow-up visits occurred as planned. There were only two
demonstrations per contact group and per cropping season before 1997, the main reason
being that only one third of planned fortnightly training sessions of the VEWs and
supervisors by Subject Matter Specialists took place. Such sessions were to provide the
demonstration themes needed and did not occur on a regular basis. Reasons included the
fact that there were few themes repeated several times leading to loss of interest from
VEWs, and also insufficient means of transportation. Following the retrofitting of the
project in March 1997 and the implementation of its action plan, including the promotion
of participatory diagnosis, the rate of completion of planned training sessions increased to
65 percent and the number of demonstrations per contact group doubled from 2 to 4
during the 1997/98 cropping season. The number of demonstration units increased from
12, 950 in 1993 to 33,832 in 1997.
Training of Responsible Officials
14.   This objective was partially achieved. A major achievement of the project has
been its ability, through formal training and exchange of experience, to create a VEW
force and its supervisors trained in several disciplines.
15.   Seventy-seven percent of the planned monthly technology review meetings
(AMRTs), which brought together researchers and subject matter specialists, took place
during the project period. The achievement ratio increased from 50 percent in 1993 to 89
percent in 1997.
16.   Fortnightly training sessions, where Subject Matter Specialists transfer the
information received during the monthly technology review workshops (AMRTs) to
VEWs and their supervisors, did not occur on a regular basis. On average, only one out of
three planned actually took place. The completion ratio was 26 percent in 1993 and
increased to 39 percent in 1997.
17.  In addition to the regular training sessions, there has been specific training
sessions covering various themes, including T&V methodology, planning and
implementation of on-farm trials, work planning, demonstrations, and Monitoring and
Evaluation. Participatory diagnostic training was also emphasized, particularly after the
1995 mid-term review and the 1997 retrofitting. A total of 204 specific training events for
extension staff at all levels in different parts of the country were organized during the
project period.
18.   Training of staff outside the country, as suggested in the SAR, did not take place
until 1997 due to inadequate planning. There has been no overseas training of key project
staff in the monitoring and evaluation, rural extension, information support, and other



-5 -
important fields. However, in implementing the action plan of the 1997 retrofitting, four
project staff were finally sent abroad in 1997 for training in farmers organizations, and
one was sent for management training.
Linkage with Research
19.   The research-extension linkage objectives were partially achieved. The project
was able to establish adequate research-extension mechanisms and to get research and
extension staff to work together and to institutionalize their relationship through
memoranda of understanding. However the findings and impact of the research-extension
activities, such as on-farm trials, were globally weak compared with the stated objectives
of the component (paragraph 4-c).
20.   The linkage was governed by a memorandum of understanding between the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INRAN) and the project. Mechanisms for
ensuring the linkage were (a) the regional agricultural research committees or Comit6s
Regionaux de la Recherche Agronomique (CORRA); (b) monthly technology review
workshops (AMRTs); (c) on-farm trials; and (d) multidisciplinary research-extension
teams.
21.   The regional agricultural research committees (CORRAS), which were not
mentioned in the SAR, existed prior to the project (PRSAA) but were initiated under the
research project (PNRA) which became effective in 1991. The CORRA was a forum for
farmers, administrators, research and extension specialists to meet at the regional level to
discuss rural development problems and propose solutions. Three CORRA meetings took
place, at Tillaberi in 1992, at Dosso in June 1993, and at Tahoua in December 1993. The
CORRAS were suspended when the research project stopped funding them, because their
performance was unsatisfactory from the point of view of the research project. They were
controlled by the political administration which was using them more for its own purpose
than for providing answers to pressing research and extension questions.
22.   Most of the planned monthly technology review workshops AMRTs took place
each year during the project period. There were 36 out of 72 planned (50 percent) in
1993; 42 out of 72 planned (58 percent) in 1994; 38 out of 95 planned (45 percent) in
1995; 61 out of 84 planned (72 percent) in 1996, and 75 out of 84 planned (89 percent) in
1997. Reasons for the shortfalls were transportation problems faced by the SMSs, and
the repetitive nature of discussion themes in the early years of the project, resulting in
lack of interest from the SMSs. This was a result of the neglecting to undertake a
participatory diagnosis to identify pertinent and demand-driven themes.
23.   On-farm trials of technologies were carried out by the extension services, but in
relatively small numbers in the early years of the project. There were 201 tests out of 309
planned (65 percent) in 1993. There were no tests in 1994 due to a lack of
communication between research and extension staff during that year. There were 329
tests out of 369 planned (92 percent) in 1995; 532 tests out of 577 planned (92 percent) in
1996, and 1,856 tests and researcher managed trials (including 1200 extension tests) out
of 2,204 planned in 1997. The number of tests was generally greater than the target of
250 tests per year set at appraisal. The increase in the last year was due mainly to the



-6-
requirements of the 1997 post (retrofitting action plans. However, the quality -of the on-
farm tests was often poor and led to few significant findings and minor impacts.
24.   Two research-extension multidisciplinary teams were set up in 1996 in the
departments of Dosso and Maradi. The team included in each province six researchers
and three extension staff and worked with extension staff at the district level. Two
districts were covered by each team in each province in 1996 and 1997. Activities carried
out by the team included participatory diagnostics and planning, and on-farm testing and
demonstrations of technologies. Following a positive evaluation in 1997 of the results
achieved by the two teams, the national research and extension institutions decided to
further decentralize the multidisciplinary team approach and establish a permanent
diagnostic team in each district (Equipe de Diagnostic d'Arrondissement).
Relations between Crop, Livestock, and Environment Services
25.   This objective was substantially achieved. The strengthening of relationships
between crops, livestock and environmental services was achieved through the
institutionalization of working relationships between the three types of services at central,
regional and district level. In particular the multidisciplinary training of extension agents
achieved under the project is the result of such strengthening of relations.
Gender and Audio-visual
26.   These components were articulated in action plans following the project's
retrofitting in 1997 and were substantially completed. The Gender component was
designed to improve women's access to agricultural services. As a result of the
implementation of related plans, about 30 extension staff in charge of women's activities
have been appointed at the national, regional and sub-regional levels. Extension themes
of particular interest to women have been introduced into the training schedule. A total of
64 women VEWs have been appointed and the number of women contact groups
increased from 1,004 in 1997 to 3,757 in 1998. Women farmers' associations and
women's savings and credit schemes also emerged as a result of the implementation of
the plans.
27.   The use of audio-visual instruments, such as radio and television extension
programs was enhanced following the retrofitting, so as to lower the cost of extension
and increase its impact. A survey in May 1998 to assess the impact of such programs
indicated that over 60 percent of farmers listened to the radio programs and over 40
percent watched the television programs. Over 80 percent of the viewers or listeners
found the demonstrated technologies relevant to their needs and applied partly or fully at
least one of them.
Technology Adoption
28.   According to the M&E results, about ten out of more than fifty technologies had
significant adoption ratios between 1994 and 1996. The most adopted technologies
(about 50 to 60 percent of farmers partially adopting within the contact groups) were soil
water conservation techniques (the zai in particular) and planting density. Technologies



-7 -
with moderate adoption rates (20 to 40 percent) included composting, mineral fertilizers,
improved wood stoves, thinning, elimination of livestock internal parasites, livestock
feeding crates, urea block and urea treatment of hay for livestock feeding. However, a
more independent impact study carried out in Febmary 1998 by a consultant with a
sample of over 3,000 farmers (half of whom were contact farmers) suggested much lower
adoption rates. This study indicated that, out of 32 crop production technologies, only
five (16 percent) had significant nationwide adoption rates between 8 and 17 percent of
the contact group farmers. These are, in a declining order of adoption, thinning, compost
production, plant density, seeds treatment with fungicides, and use of organic manure.
Among the livestock production technologies, only five out of nineteen (26 percent) had
a significant adoption ratio between 8 and 30 percent of contact group farmers. These
include in declining order of adoption, urea block (licks) for livestock feed
supplementation, forage cutting and storage, stomach parasite treatments, construction of
feeding crates, and hay treatment with urea. Among the environment protection
technologies, five out of thirteen (38 percent) had a significant adoption ratio between 8
and 25 percent of contact farmers. These are, in a declining order of adoption, the
improved wood stove, the zai land recuperation technique, improved land clearing,
natural tree regeneration protection, and pruning techniques. Technology adoption in the
non-contact groups were much smaller and dispersion rate was estimated to be on
average one contact farmer to four non-contact farmers, instead of 10 as expected at
appraisal. A third independent impact study carried out with the help of a consultant after
project completion, on a smaller but widely spread sample (120 households) focused on
the six most popular technologies identified in the previous study and found that their
adoption rates were about 33 percent in the contact groups as well as in the non-contact
groups.
Functional Literacy
29.   This objective was substantially achieved. The literacy component, handled by the
Direction de l'Alphab6tisation et de la Formation des Adultes of the Ministry of
Education, was introduced in the project in 1994 as a pilot program, covering 5 villages
in the Dosso district and 5 villages in the Konni district (Tahoua province). Five hundred
farmers benefited from the pilot program.
30.   The program was subsequently extended nationwide to cover 23 districts. A total
of 365 villages were covered under the program, surpassing the target of 350 villages at
appraisal. The population reached was 20,212 farmers of whom 50.33 percent were
women. The final test was taken by 14,168, of which 5,175 men and 3,864 women passed
and became certified literates, while the remaining were considered to be semi-literates.
These results reflect an acceptable 30 percent drop-out ratio.
31.   According to UNDP statistics, the literacy ratio for adults in Niger increased from
14 percent in 1988 to 17 percent in 1998, partly due to the effects of the project. In 1998,
out of a total of 1,035 literacy training centers, 58 percent were under the project during
the second half of the decade, thereby suggesting a significant contribution of the project
to the observed increase in the adult literacy rate in the country.



-8 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
32.   An external M&E unit was established in 1993 under the Direction des Etudes et
de la Planification of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. In practice, however, it
has rarely been operational. A M&E report produced by the unit in 1994 was not
considered useful by the extension services since the authors lacked adequate training.
Furthermore, it is the general feeling of the M&E unit staff that the project managers,
fearing negative evaluations, never made available on time the necessary resources for
them to carry out their duties properly. Only two M&E surveys were carried out by the
unit over the five years of the project while one was planned for each year. The unit was
instead used to compile and analyze routine extension management information
contained in monthly reports from the field. This was inadequate to acquire sufficient
information to guide the project management. One external adoption study was finally
carried out by the end of the project to comply with the requirements of the 1997 post-
retrofitting action plans.
33.   The failure of the M&E unit to demonstrate any significant impact of the project,
in terms of technology adoption and benefits to farmers, was the main cause for the
project being rated unsatisfactory with respect to its development objectives from 1995
until the end of the project. Major M&E achievements, such as the early 1998 impact
study which documented action plans resulting from retrofitting, were similarly
insufficient and occurred too late to guide project implementation.
Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment.
34.   Acquisition of program inputs in terms of buildings and equipment progressed
faster than program outputs. A total of 26 training centers, one in each district, were built
and equipped. One hundred and three vehicles (compared with 60 planned at appraisal)
and 871 motorcycles were acquired, as well as office equipment, including computers.
The few performance indicators defined at appraisal emphasized mostly the achievement
of such project input goals.
Financial and Administrative Management
35.   The project fmancial and administrative management was unsatisfactory
throughout the project implementation period. Management was unstable with eight
different project coordinators over a five year period. Audits reported ineligible and
insufficiently justified expenses from 1995 to the end of the project, which led to the
government's reimbursing about CFAF 200 million. Up to 1995, the project had a
centralized financial management system; it was subsequently decentralized to some
extent but never functioned efficiently because of inadequate training of management
staff, particularly the financial controller and the accountants. Other problems included a
lack of transparency on the side of the project coordinator and resistance to allow the
internal control mechanism (procedures manual, co-signatures) to function as planned.



-9 -
D.   Project Cost And Financing
36.   The total project cost was over US$20.5 million. US$18.0 million were funded
by the IDA credit with the balance funded by the government and beneficiaries, mainly to
cover salaries of the extension staff, and also for land and other items offered by rural
communities for the housing of the village extension workers.
E.    Major Factors Affecting The Project
37.   Management Instability.  The frequent changes in project management that
coincided with almost every change in Minister of Agriculture was a major contributor to
the poor performance of the project. It led to lack of continuity in implementation
strategy, frequent changes in priorities, and disruptive interventions of some government
officials in project implementation, particularly in the allocation and use of project
resources (e.g., vehicles, oil).
38.   Deficient Monitoring and Evaluation System.  The absence of adequate
performance indicators and M&E data, both from internal and external sources, to guide
project management, significantly contributed to the poor performance of the project.
39.   Midterm  review.  The midterm review carried out in February 1995 was
instrumental in identifying several weaknesses in project implementation, particularly in
the areas of extension management and financial management, and in making
recommendations for corrections at an early stage.  Corrective action included
restructuring of staff at the field level, with elimination of overlapping in areas of
intervention of staff, and rationalization of the organization chart. It significantly
contributed to the institution building (T&V) achievements of the project.
40.   Retrofitting. The action plans put in place following the March 1997 retrofitting
of the project significantly contributed to improvement of the project performance during
its last year. The plans enabled the project to shift emphasis slightly from level of efforts
(or project inputs) to impact in terms of expected results and to introduce or emphasize
needed specific components. As demonstrated by the evolution of the previously
discussed extension parameters, significant positive changes in such parameters were
observed during that period. In particular the introduction and successful implementation
of the gender and audio-visual action plans significantly upgraded the performance of the
project.
F.    Project Sustainability
41.   The extension system in Niger is not financially sustainable and is likely to
remain so in the near future, given its current design and the low capacity of Government
to finance its recurrent costs. The government does not currently have the capability to
sustain the recurrent costs of the project, and extension services are rapidly diminishing
due to an absence of external funds.
42.   The human resource development elements of the project (fanner's training in
new technologies, literacy) are expected to have a sustainable impact. It is even



-10-
expected, given the high rural demand for functional literacy, that with reduced or no
funding, several village communities, are likely to maintain or create and pay for their
functional literacy programs. Furthermore, some of the low resource technologies that
have been transferred to farmers, particularly in the area of soil fertility maintenance
(e.g., zai, half moon) are expected to also have long lasting effects in environmental
protection.
G.   Bank Performance
43.   Project Preparation.   The Bank's performance during preparation was
unsatisfactory. A two-year pilot project was carried out in preparation for the project, but
glossed over a number of risks that in hindsight affected performance and sustainability,
including the lack of continuity in national and Bank project managers, poor morale from
delays in salary payments, lack of unity in the line of command at the ministerial level,
and delays in the transfer of accounting documents from regional to central level. There
were deficiencies in some areas, such as the lack of a logical framework and performance
indicators, insufficient risk control/mitigation mechanisms. However, the design of the
project, given the complexity of the Nigerien extension system, had some merits,
particularly regarding the nation-wide institutionalization of the T&V approach, and
inter-institution linkages and coordination mechanisms.
44.   Project Supervision. The Bank's performance during project supervision was
overall unsatisfactory. The project task manager was initially based in the field during
the first two years of the project for close supervision and was assisted by specialists
from headquarters. Close supervision was maintained afterward with two local staff and
with headquarters-based task managers.  Although formal supervision took place
regularly twice a year, the supervision teams included mainly extension specialists and
fimancial analysts, but lacked monitoring and evaluation specialists. The midterm review
took place as planned two and a half years after project effectiveness. It identified
several deficiencies and made adequate recommendations to correct some but not all of
them, without any fundamental change in project design. The Bank changed the project
task manager four times during the five years of project implementation, thereby creating
instability and lack of continuity in project management approach on the Bank's side.
This was exacerbated by the fact that, due to the absence of adequate development
outcome indicators, the project performance was arbitrarily rated by each task manager
on the basis of subjective opinions. Decisive actions were not taken to limit the frequent
change of project coordinators by the Government, to correct the financial management
of the project or to suspend the project in view of its numerous qualified audits and
ineligible expenses. The project was declared "at risk" and was retrofitted as needed, but
this was done fourteen months before the end of the project, with insufficient time to
change project performance from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.
45.   Procurement, Disbursement and Audits. The Bank's performance with respect to
procurement was marginally satisfactory, even with a field-based Task Manager, as a
result of long delays for acquiring non-objections.  Performance with respect to
disbursement and audit were more satisfactory, as they resulted in the project disbursing
almost all the credit as planned, and allowed timely detection of ineligible expenses and
other financial management constraints.



H.   Borrower Performance
46.   The performance of the Borrower was satisfactory during preparation, but
unsatisfactory during implementation. Government failed to establish an effective
external monitoring and evaluation system. The frequent change (eight times in five
years) of project coordinator was for political reasons rather than for technical
performance reasons. Project resources were often abused by Government officials, such
as the requisition of project vehicles by Prefets and sous-Prefets. The Government did
attempt to resolve problems by moving the project from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MOAL) to the Ministry of Economic Planning in April 1998, reflecting the
Government's weaknesses in tackling fundamental problems within MOAL. This was
done too late and was not necessarily the best solution. The Government satisfactorily
complied with most legal convenants and supported action plans proposed by supervision
missions to improve the performance of the project.
I.    Implementation Agency
47.   The performance of the project coordination unit was unsatisfactory, mainly as a
result of financial management problems that resulted in several qualified audits and
ineligible expenses reimbursed by the Government from 1995 to 1998. Project
coordinators' reluctance to provide adequate and timely resources to the M&E
component contributed to the poor performance of the internal monitoring and evaluation
system, and thereby to the poor performance of the implementation agency. However,
following the 1997 retrofitting, the performance of the project coordination office
improved significantly and resulted in successful completion of most actions proposed in
the post-retrofitting action plans.
J.    Assessment Of Outcome
48.   Supervision missions often rated the project satisfactory with respect to its
implementation progress but generally unsatisfactory with respect to attaining its
development objectives. In retrospect, however, implementation progress was in fact
barely satisfactory, if not unsatisfactory. This was a result of administrative and financial
management problems and problems stemming from not having an adequate monitoring
and evaluation system. In providing satisfactory rating for implementation progress,
supervision missions focused achievement of action plans proposed during previous
missions. Most of such plans turned attention to technical T&V implementation issues
rather than project management and M&E issues. The project was most successful in
capacity building. Four of its seven major capacity building objectives were substantially
achieved (organization of extension services; improvement of the linkage between crop,
livestock and environment services; functional literacy; civil works and equipment).
Other capacity building objectives, particularly regarding training and management were
not achieved. Although there are, as suggested by the early 1998 impact study, a few
cases where the project successfully transferred technologies, the achievement remains
insufficient (although no standards were originally agreed upon) with no knowledge of its
impact on the livelihood of farmers. It may be premature to expect much impact from a
five-year project, but given the rather successful organization of the extension services
during the first two years of the project, better results in terms of extension of pertinent



-12-
technologies and in terms of adoption might have been achieved during the other three
years if the M&E and management components had functioned properly. Seen in this
broader context, the project outcome is rated globally unsatisfactory.
K     Future Operations
49.   Due to the unsatisfactory performance of the project and the fact that supervision
efforts were aimed primarily at correcting short-term problems, no preparation for a
follow-up operation was made during the life of the project. Since the end of the project,
the extension system has been surviving on Government funds and on a revolving fund
created for the maintenance of the motorcycles of the extension staff.  A rural
development strategy is however being drafted by the Borrower and several strategic
studies and workshops have been carried out under the project. Their results may serve
as a basis for the identification of future operations to provide more cost-effective
agricultural services to Nigerien farmers.
L.   Key Lessons Learned
50.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project
a) It is essential to define and phase project objectives by stating clearly at
appraisal the short-term, medium-term, and long-term objectives of the project
and related performance indicators.
b) It is essential to ensure, from the beginning of project implementation and
during each supervision, that external and internal monitoring and evaluation
systems use adequate performance indicators, are properly staffed, are
allocated timely and adequate resources for operation and training, and are not
adversely influenced by national project managers/coordinators.
c) Stability of project management must be encouraged, by ensuring that
managers are recruited more on the basis of technical and managerial
competence than on the basis of political affiliation.
d) Multidisciplinary training of extension agents is feasible and shows potential
to be an effective way of reducing costs of extension services to small
farmers.
e) Participatory diagnosis is a critical factor in improving the pertinence of
extended technologies, and therefore the efficiency and the impact of
extension services.



- 13-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr.2355-NIR)
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial  Partial  Negligible  Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives    (X)        (X)       (X)           (X)
Macroeconomic policies                                           X
Sector policies          ___                       X
Financial objectives                               X
Institutional development                X
Physical objectives                      X                               l
Poverty reduction                                  X
Gender issues                 X
Other social objectives                                          x
Environmental objectives          _                X
Public sector management                           X
Private sector development X                       X
Other (specify)                                                  X
1    Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
B. Project sustainability              (X)             (X)          (X)
Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
C. Bank performance                    (X)             (X)          (X)
Identification                                       x
Preparation assistance                                             x
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                                       X



- 14-
Highly
satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
D. Borrower performance              (X)            (X)           (X)
Preparation                                      1X
Implementation                                                  X
Covenant compliance                                             X
Operation (if applicable)                                       X
Highly                                 Highly
E. Assessment of      satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
outcome                 (X)         (X)          (X)           (X)
x
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit title   Purpose                            Year of  Status
approval
Preceding
operation
Dosso RDP         The project was aimed to increase    1979     Completed
(Cr. 0967)       agricultural production and reinforce
capacity building at a local level. The
project Completion report concluded that
the impact of Dosso project on production
increase was marginal and that the
adoption of insufficiently proven technical
messages by farmers was limited. The
project closed in June 1985 with only 16
percent of fund disbursed out of the total
credit of US$20 million
Maradi RDP II     The project aimed to: (a) encourage  1980     Completed
(Cr. 1026)       farmer's initiative and participation and to
make them more responsible for
development activities; (b) develop
village-based extension system; and (c)
gradually reduce technical assistance and
cut operating cost. The project was
confronted with implementation problems
and failed to achieve the expected increase
in crop production and a real participation
of farmers in development activities.
Small Rural      The project aimed at helping the      1988     Completed
Operations       Government to develop institutional
(Cr. 1890)       capability in preparation and execution of
small rural operations by (i) providing
support to provincial and district technical



- 15 -
services, (ii) improving extension
services, and (iii) training beneficiary
groups in literacy and management. In
addition, the project financed investments
in grant form for (a) bottomland
improvements, (b) development of small-
irrigated perimeters, (c) establishment of
fruit tree nurseries, and (d) various
operations in natural resource
management.
AG. Research      The project aims to strengthen national    1990  Active
Project           planning and implementation capacity in
(Cr. 2122 Nir)    agricultural research. In particular, the
project emphasizes the development of
research capacity in order to respond to
the needs and constraints of agriculture as
practiced in Niger.
Following
operations
Pilot Private     The project assesses and applies irrigation  1995  Active
Irrigation        technologies adapted to small-scale
(Cr. 2707 Nir)    agriculture as practiced by individual
farmers.
Natural Resources  The project is intended to slow and arrest  1995  Active
Mgt.              environmental deterioration, and
(Cr. 2796 Nir)    eventually improve environmental
conditions. It is the first part of a long-
term project aimed at improving
agricultural productivity.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                        October 1987        October 1987
Preparation                           October 1988        October 1988
Appraisal                             May 1991            May 1991
Negotiations                          January 1992        February 1992
Board Presentation                    March 1992          April 1992
Signing                                       -           June 1992
Effectiveness                                             January 1993
Mid-term review                       July 1994           February 1995
Project Completion                    December 1997       December 1997
Credit Closing                        June 1998           June 1998



- 16-
Table 4: Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
| FY93    FY94   FY95    FY96          FY97    FY98  FY99
Appraisal Estimate         4.5      7.5    10.5    14.1         17.3     18.0    -
Actual                     2.1      4.0      6.5      9.4       12.9    16.1   18.1
Actual as % of Estimate    46.7     53.3     62      66.7      74.6      89.4    -
Date of Final Disbursement                     October 14, 1998



- 17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Activity/objective       At Project  Expected at Project Situation During ICR
Stait       Completion           Mission
Program Inputs
Fielding of Extension Staff:
- VEW (field extension staff)    315             419                600
- Supervisors                     60             66                 100
- SMS/TS                          12             20                  78
Vehicles                          2              20                 103
Motorcycles                       5              66                 871
Mopeds                            35             410                 0
Actual recurrent expenditures per
VEW per year for mobility and
training                                          N.A.              630,000
Program Delivery
In service training of
- VEW                         inadequate
- SMS                         inadequate
(periodicity & regularity)
Extension trial plots            30             250             201 to 1,200
No. of contact farmers/groups     2,200           8,000              8,694
No. of farmers in contact groups
(men, women)                    30,000         120,000             84,000
Periodicity of farm visits
- VEW                         inadequate     fortnightly      about 30 percent of
- Supervisors                     cc                              planned
- SMS                                                          visits carried out
Program Impact
No. of farmers testing                                           0 to 25,000
improved technologies on                                        depending on
micro-plots (men/women)          2,200          16,000         technology (see
paragraph # 28
Development of new extension
messages per season                              2-4                0-10
Surveys by Monitoring Unit on
adoption and diffusion             -          1 per year         2 in 5 years
Geographic Coverage              768            6,100           4,000 villages



- 18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Indicators                                 Estimated          Actual
Staffing Ratio
Farmer households per extension agents           2000              1,448
Supervisor per extension agents                   1/8               1/6
Training Schedule
BI-weekly                                        7,213             2,225
Monthly                                           396               252
Number of contact groups                                         8,694 (in 1997)
Total Number of contact groups (in 5 years)                       41,012
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Studies                       Status           Impact of the Study
1. Participatory Method       Fulfilled        Production of a document on
Programming                                 participatory method and training of all
the staff
2. Detailed plan of ag. Extension  Fulfilled   This study helped readjust the extension
in peri-urban areas                         in peri-urban areas
3. Study to set-up a sustainable   Fulfilled   This study helped set-up a sustainable
extension strategy                          national extension strategy
4. Study on farmers'          Fulfilled        Identification and recording of farmers'
organizations                               organizations
5. Study on institutional aspects  Fulfilled   This study helped put in limelight the
of the project                              causes for project's problems and the
solutions to solve them
6. Study on the supply of     Fulfilled        This study helped analyze the market,
agriculture Inputs                         identify the problems and find the
solutions to solve them
7. Study of the market of     Fulfilled        This study helped ensure a better
chemical agriculture inputs in              knowledge of chemical agriculture
Niger                                      inputs in Niger
8. Diagnosis and identification of Fulfilled   This study helped identify women's
women's specific needs                      specific needs in order to better
integrate them in extension activities
9. Studies on the adoption of    Fulfilled     his study helped the project know the
technologies                                technologies effectively mastered
10. Study on the improvement of  Fulfilled     This study helped the unit in charge of
the monitoring and evaluation               monitoring and evaluation set-up
system                                      pertinent monitoring and evaluation
indicators and also create a monitoring
and evaluation system at sub-regional
_ level
11. Study to set-up an internal    Fulfilled   Conception of the internal control
control system                              system



- 19-
TABLE 8A: Project Costs
(in US$M)
Project Components                  Appraisal Estimate         Actual
Civil Works                               0.8                   0.6
Vehicles, Equipment, Materials and        4.3                    4.5
Furniture
Consultant Services                       0.3                   0.4
Training                                  0.9                    1.5
Operating costs                           8.5                   10.0
Refunding of Project Preparation           1.5                   1.1
Advance
Unallocated                                1.7                   0.0
Total                                     18.0                  18.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                  (US$M)
Government and                 1.8                      2.5
Beneficiaries
IDA                            18.0                     18.1
TOTAL                          19.8                     20.6
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit     Covenant  Present    Original     Revised                  Description of Covenant                     Comments
Agreement      Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Section                           Date         Date
3.01(a)        10,05     C                                  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of Complied with,
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2, and shall carry out   consistently.
Part A of the Project through MAG/EL and MH/E, Parts B
and C through MAG/EL, MH/E and MEN/R, and Part D
through MEN/R, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administration, financial and
technical practices, and shall provide promptly funds,
facilities, services required for the Project.
3.01(b)        10        CD                                 Without limitation upon the provisions of para (a) of this   No comments.
Section, and expect as the Borrower and the Association
shaU otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.02           03        C                                  Except as the association shall otherwise agree,   Complied with,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services  consistently.
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement
3.03           13        NC                                 The Borrower shall ensure that aUl motorcycles and  This covenant is being
mopeds purchased under the Project for use by     revised.
supervisors, VEWs and Monitoring & Evaluation agents
shall be assigned to the appropriate local government,
which shall thereafter be required to assume responsibility
for the maintenance of such vehicles and for their
insurance.
3.04           05,09    C                                   The Borrower shall establish a coordinating committee,    Satisfactory.
consisting of the Project Coordinator and representatives
of each Directorate, and of INRAN, to be responsible for
the coordination and supervision of the Projects:
MAE/EL-Agrc, Plant Protection, Livestock, Studies and
Programming; MH/E-Environment, MEF-Programs and
Plan, Pub. Debt; MEN/R-Functional Literacy; MAE/C-
I________                International Organization and Conference.



4.01(a)       01         C                                        The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained   Satisfactory.
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
canying out the Project or any part thereof.
4.01(b)(i)    01        C                                         The Borrower shall: have the records and accounts       Satisfactory.
referred to in para (a) of tNis Section including those for
the Special Account for each FY audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
4.01(b)(ii)    01        NC                                       The Borrower shall funish to the Association, as soon as   Audit report for the 1994
available, but not later than 6 months after the end of each   accounts was received.
year, a cerfified copy of the report of such audit by said  However it was not
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the       acceptable. Its revision
Association shall have reasonably requested.           would be done together with
I________  ________                     __________   ________________________________________________           the    audit of  1995    accounts.
4.01(b)(iii)   01        C                                        The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other    Satisfactory.
information concerning said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request
4.01(c)(i)    01                                                  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: maintain or
cause to be maintained, in accordance with para. (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures.



4.01(c)(ii)   01                                             For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of SOE,
the Borrower shall: retain, until at least 1 year after IDA
has received the audit report for the FY in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account or Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures.
4.01(c)(iii)   01                                            For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of SOE,
the Borrower shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
4.01(c)(iv)   01                                             Pertaining to the SOE, the Borrower shall ensure that said
accounts and records shall be audited on a semi-annual
basis with audit reports furnished to IDA not later than 3
months after the end of the audit period, with an opinion as
to whether the SOE submitted during such period, can be
l___________________ ________  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Status:                              Covenant Class:
C: Complied with                     1: Accounts/audit                    7: Involuntary resettlement
CD: Complied after delay             2: Financial performance/generate    8: Indigenous people
NC: Not Complied with                 revenue from beneficiaries           9: Monitoring, review and reporting
Soon: Compliance expected            3: Flow and utilization of Project fimds    10: Implementation
in Reasonably Short Time            4: Counterpart funding                11: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
CP: Complied with Partially          5: Management aspects of the Project  12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
NYD: Not Yet Due                      or of its executing agency           13: Other
6: Environmental covenants



Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                   Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks                            US$
.___________________                   ($000)
Through Appraisal                147.7                           405.3
Negotiation-Board                 21.7                            68.8
Supervision                      275.1                           669.7
Completion                        12.0                            22.5
TOTAL                            456.5                           1,166.3
l-h



Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Project phase          Month/Year        Number   Days            Specialized           Implementation              Development                Types of
of         in        Staff Skills               Status                  Objectives               problems
Persons    Field        Represented
Identification         Oct. 1987         -           -
Preparation            Oct. 1988         4            12       AS, AS, AE, TR
Appraisal              May 1991                                EX, FA, OA,                                     _                           _
l___ EX, ME
Supervision I          Dec. 1993         2            14       AS, AS               S                          S
Supervision II        Aug. 1994          3            14       AS, AS, AS           S                          S
Mid Tenn Review    Feb. 1995             4            15       EC, AS, AS, FA    S                             U                           M, F, L
Supervision IV         June 1995         2            12       AS, AS               S                          U                           M, F, L
Supervision V          Dec. 1995         4            14       AS, AS, AE,          U                          U                           M, F, L
00
Supervision VI         Sept. 1996        4            14       AS, AS, AE,          S                          U                           FP
00
Supervision VII        Oct. 1997         4            12       EX  AS, AE,          S                          U                           M, P, PS
Supervision VIII       June 1998         2            10       AS, OA               S                          U                           M, PS, M&E
Types of problems:                                         Subject specdalty:
D: Slow Disbursement                                       AE: Agricuhural Economist                     TR: Training Specialist
F: Availability of counterpart funds                       AS: Agricultural Services Specialist          00: Operations Officer
FP: Financial problems                                     EC: Econornist                                OA. Operations Analyst
L: Adherence to legal clauses                              EX: Extension Specialist                     NRM: Natural Resources MgL Specialist
M: Project management                                      ME: Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist      RR: Resident Representative
PS: Project Staffing                                       FA: Financial Analyst                         WID: WUD Specialist
P: Progress with procurement                               LS: Livestock Specialist                     NGO: NGO Specialist
TA: Progress with technical assistance                     PS: Procurement Specialist
TR: Training                                               SE: Social Economist
M&E: Monitoring and Evaluation                             RF: Rural Finance Specialist
MS: Management Specialist



APPENDIX
UPUBIIOUX DU NIOUl                             Nay, Du
KZ!TXR  D  PUNM
DXgCTZON DES PROR0g&b=S IT DU PLAN
_"______/HP/D./BDR                                           v
7-                     L1 UICRZTAXRl    M GIRAL
Monsieur le Repr6sent.nt
Rhaident de la Banque
Nondiale
t Proj et de Reforcement
des gervicas d'appui A
iLAgriculture (CR 2355 -
OMIR rapport d'adh&vement
Ut= : 31R/liO/9 9/AgT
Monsieur le Repr6sentant Resident,
Suite  &  votre  lettre  ci-dessus  rdf6renc6e,  jiai
l'honneur de vous informer que mon d6partement minist6riel n'a
aucune observation quant au contenu de ce rapport d'achAvement.
Aussi noug vous saurions gr6 des dispositions qua vous
voudriez blen prendre pour prxsenter ce document au Conseil
d'Adminietration de la Banque.
Veuillez agrier, Monsieur le Repr6sentant Raident, meo
consid6rations distingu6es.
B



MAP SECTION



ALGERIA                   L                       4'                                                        t                                                                                                                    is6
Th                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBYA
"This slo  h-s been prepared by
The Worl1d Bosh' stffechiey
MALI   )        NIGER                          rthe fdsooeiece of-seeders
-sd is -1.loiooly for the
CHAD            Irt-erol use of TheWorld8Bo-k
'_IIAVrop.The denominc tion              s u sed                      A  L       E R   A 
k  Niomey 1fl.1 an~~od  fho  boosdories  shoe'sL ttX   
2UR2a' w9 w                                   on this map do ,ot impIy, on the
wo                                           part of The World b-n G-op. \
ZX r0- I               \                 any judae-ent on the le.gs o
g \i  J    NIGERIA                 Ofstatus rf osy territory Or -yO
-nd-r-sst or occeptooe ofI
= l.ooo w                           f          surh bo-ed.ries.                                                                                                                                                        I
ARICAN
CIIRRON-  REP
:                                 ~~~~NIGER                                                                                                                        ' 
AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT
20     SE    ARRONDISSEMENTS ADDED UNDER CURRENT PROJECT                                     /BivMA                                                                                                                                      io
ARRO.DISSEMENTS REACHED UNDER THE PILOT PROIECT AND
CONTINUED UNDER CURRENT PROJECT/ 
ARBUT                       AGADEZ             I
PAVED ROADS
EARTH ROADS
RIVERS                                                                     Arlit                                                     I
o         SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                       I
o)         DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                         _
*          NATIONAL CAPITAL
-  -  -  -    ARRONDISSEMENT BOUNDARIES                                                   AGbDfZ
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
l                                            V            <    |                                  /                                       ~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIFFA/
o     50   loo    150   20   2SO eT                                                                                    _
16      I(lLOMETfRS    ______________I_____J_____                                                                                                                                                                                        16-
oMILES            S          ra l0     1                  TAOUA
9 MALI                                     T CHIN-TARA.rADfNW/.. /
~~~ TAIdCUA                                      (                D A\             \      g            k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ZINDER  GcjvkEiGI                 t                    hAU 
Na U*Ml'                              CHAD
Teiltidi                  dnoe               TAHOUA
  Torodi  Soy ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~okr
_ ~       NA _o                               SI                                                 _         I                                           _             I                                     *_                   I_ bN
T.~~~ ~ ~ ~ Kom
2    FASO                                                                                                NIGER IAIT
1'   CAMEROON                                               15



