Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
MROFlUR COPY                                                       Report No. 101 9-IR
Report No. 10119-NIR Type: (SAR)
CERYCH, J./ X35009 / J9  131/ AF5AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR?
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICLTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1992
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performante of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disctosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUJXVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 272
Weights and Measures
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEM
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAFA        Direction de l'Alphab6tisation et de la Formation des
Adultee
(Adult Functional Literacy Department)
DEIA        Direction de l'Elevage et des Industries Animales
(Livestock and Animal Industries Directorate)
ICRISAT     International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics
IPDR        Institut Pratique de D6veloppement Rural
(Agricultural Training Center)
INRAN       Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques du Niger
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
ONAI*A      Office National des Am6nagements Hydroagricoles
(Public Irrigation Agency)
PPODR       Projet de Petites Op6rations de D6veloppement Rural
(Small Rural Operations Project)
PRSAA       Programme de Renforcement des Services d'Appui &
1'Agriculture
(Pilot Agricultural Extension Project)
SMS         Subject Mlatter Specialist
VEW         Village Extension Worker
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................(i) - (iii)
I.  BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    I
B.  The Agricultural Sector .. . .  .                        1
C.  Experience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned  . .    2
D.  Government and Bank Strategy in the Sector  . . . . .    3
E.  The Pilot Agricultural Extension Project  . . . . . .    4
II. AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS AND SUPPORT SERVICES
A.  Agricultural Institutions   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
-   The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock    . . . . 5
-   The Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment   . . . . 6
-   Office National d'Am6nagements Hydroagricoles     . 6
-   The Ministry of National and Higher
Education and Technology  . . . . . . . . . . . 6
-   Local Government   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
-   Non-Governmental Organizations   . . . . . . . . . . 6
B.  Agricultural Support Services    . . . . . . . . . . .    7
-   Agricultural and Livestock Extension   . . . . .    7
-   Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
-   Functional Literacy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
-   Farmers' Associations  . . . . . . . . . . .  .    8
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Rationale  ... .  .  . . . . . . . . .    8
B.  Summary Description .......... . ..    9
C.  Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
-   Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services  .   10
-   Geographical Coverage  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
-   Linkage with Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
-   Functional Literacy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
- Training .13
-   Monitoring and Evaluation .13
-   Accounting and Financial Management  . . . . . .   14
-   Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment  . . . . . .   14
D.  Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
-   Project Cost   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
-   Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
E.  Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
F.  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Niger in May/June 1991 comprising Messrs. Jiri Cerych, Financial
Analyst (mission leader); Madicke Niang, Extension Specialist; and Mrs.
Jann Masterson, Operations Analyst. Mr. V. Venkatesan, APTAG Extension
Specialist, and Ms. J. Murphy, AFTAG Senior Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist, were the lead advisors. Ms. Marie-Claire Tsang, Staff
Assistant, provided secretarial support in the preparation of the
report. Mr. Salah Darghouth and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the managing
Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively for the
operation.



Tab5le of Contenti, (continued)                                   Page
IV.  PROJE   ORGANIZATION     IMPLEMENTATXON
A.   Overall Project Organization and Management   . . . .   20
B.   Functional Literacy Training  . . . . . ..  .  .  .  . .   20
C.  Financial Management and Reporting  .   .   .   .   .   21
D.   Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . .. .  .   21
E.   Project Supervision     9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
V.   ENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .   22
B.   Justification and Affordability . . . . . . . . . . .   22
C.   Project Risks   .  .  ..    . . . . . . .   . . . . . .   23
VI.  AGREEMENTS BEACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . .          24
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Extension Pilot Project
Annex 2:  Project Cost Tables
- Table 1: Project Cost Summary
- Table 2: Summary Account by Project Component
- Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year
- Table 4: Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Annex 3:  Key Indicators
Annex 4:  Supervision Plan
Annex 5:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 6:  Costs and Benefits
Annex 7:  Documents contained in the Project File
Chart
Implementation Chart
MAP
IBRD No. 23273



(i)
upBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PRO-JECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMAY
Borrower        :    Republic of Niger
Beneficiaries  :    Farmers and herders, and in general the country's
rural population.
Amount          :    SDR 12.9 million (US$18.0 million)
Terms           :    Standard, with 40 years maturity.
fDescriotion    :    The project represents the first five-year
timeslice of a long-term national program designed
to strengthen agricultural, livestock and
environmental protection extension with a view to
generate increased agricultural production and
sustained growth of farmers' and herders' incomes.
The project builds on experience gained during the
implementation of a pilot project. The main
elements of the program are: (i) efficient
organization of extension services, provided with
adequate human and physical resources, at the
farmer, regional and national levels; (ii) regular
and continuous training of staff at all levels by
means of a system of fortnightly, monthly and
annual training sessions; (iii) better linkages
between extension and the national and regional
agricultural research; (iv) strengthening og
relations between the crop farming, livestock and
environment services; and (v) functional literacy
and numeracy training both for men and women.
Investment would be in: (a) civil works; (b)
vehicles and equipment; (c) incremental operating
costs; (d) training; and (e) short-term technical
assistance to eatablish and periodically supervise
a project accounting and budgeting system.
Economic Rate
of Return    :    Not applicable.
Benefits
and Risk      :    The project will contribute to the well-being of a
large number of rural families. About 46% of the
rural population (330,000 families) would be
reached by improved crop, livestock and environment
extension services, but how many of these
households would choose to adopt recommended
practices cannot be estimated with any preclsion.
More spocifically, project benefits should manifest
themselves in three main areas: (a) production and
productivity of both the crop and livestock
sectors: reorganized and strengthened crop,
livestock and environmental extension services
should provide farmers and herders - both men and
women - with new and effective ways to improve
their standards of living; (b) autonomy and self-
reliance: with the help of literacy programs,



(ii)
farmers and herders will be better able to manage
their resources and investments independently; (c)
human resources: the project strongly emphasizes
training and continuing education programs for
farmers, herders and government staff. The project
would strengthen research/extension links, and
promote a two-way flow of information between
producers and technicians. The risks are: (a) the
possible inability of extension and research
services to produce workable solutions to farmers'
and herderas problems; (b) problems of inter-agency
coordination; and (c) the possible failure of
Government and/or donors to sustain the long-term
commitment required to achieve durable improvements
in the effectiveness of agricultural support
services. To minimize these risks, the lessons
learned during the pilot project implementation
have been built into the project design. Financial
and management capabilities will be strengthened
and annual reviews of work plans and budgets, as
well as the mid-term implementation review and
close Bank supervision will provide an adequatte
number of opportunities for program review and
long-term commitment building.



(iii)
Eatlmated Costs a   Finanina Plan
Estimated Costs A/                 -------(US$ million) -------
Extension
- Agric. & Livestock               6.8          7.0      13.8
- Environment                                   0 Q.5     0.9
Sub-total Extension                 7.2          7.5      14.7
On-Farm Research                    0.1          0.0       0.1
Monitoring and Evaluation           0.2          0.2       0.4
Functional Literacy                 0.9          0.3       1.2
Refinancing of PPF                  0.8          0.7       1.5
Bare Costs                          9.2          8.7      17.9
Physical Contingencies            0.2          0.5       0.7
Price Contingencies               0.4          0.8       1.2
Total Project Costs                 9.8         lQ-O      19.8
a/ Net of identifiable taxes and duties
Financing Plan:                    Local       Foreian    Total
…----(USS million)…-
Government and Beneficiaries        1.8          0         1.8
IDA                                 8.0         10.0      18.0
Total                               2.8         10.0      19.8
Estimated IDA Dioburgements P/
IDA Fiscal Year
93            __ 96              97      98
…(--------  (US$ million)…
Annual                    4.5    3.0       3.0     3.6      3.2     0.7
Cumulative                4.5    7.5    10.5    14.1    17.3    18.0
b/ The projections deviate from the standard profile for agricultural
projects in Niger, i.e., disbursements higher than the profile in the
first year, due to the refinancing of the PPF (US$1.5 million), and the
opening of the special account (US$1.0 million).



I. BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      In October 1987, Governme .. requested IDA to help set up and
finance a pilot extension project b ;-Ause the past attempts to improve
the efficiency of agricultural services were not successful. This partly
because they did not respond adequately to farmers, constraints and
priorities and alao because they were not adequately linked to an
efficient farmer oriented national research system, The pilot operations
started in 1988. The first season was not well prepared and the results
achieved were not significant. However, the subsequent two seasons have
been increasingly successful with satisfactory adoption rates of
messages extended and with substantial yield increases on test plots.
Based on these favorable results the Government decided to extend the
pilot project approach to cover progreseively most of Niger agricultural
lands and requested IDA assiotance in preparation and financing of the
project.
B.   The Aaricultural Sector
1.02      Three quarters of Niger's vast territory of 126.7 million
hectares is desert. Of the total cultivable area of about 15 million
hectares, only 7.0 million are cropped, mostly in the Southern part of
the country. Another 8 million are maintained in rotational fallows and
pastures. Although agriculture remains the most important economic
activity and the principal livelihood of the population, accounting for
about 37% of the GDP and about 25% of the country's exports, Nigerien
agriculture is largely subaistence based, producing low-value crops such
as millet (supplying about 75% of the total cereals production) and
sorghum (providing about 21%). The most important export commodities are
livestock (cattle on the hoof) and cowpeas. With irrigated lands
representing only about two percent of the total cultivated area, the
contribution of the irrigation subsector to national agricultural
production is relatively small.
1.03      Despite its meager resource base, Niger has traditionally
been self-sufficient in food production except during severe drought
periods. However, production has not kept pace with the growth in
population. Total cereals production in the 1980s increased by only 1.8%
while population grew at an annual rate of 3.1%. The modest increase in
production has been achieved by increasing the cultivated area which
grew from 5.8 million hectares in 1985/86 to 7.0 million hectares in
1988/89 (20%). The over-exploitation of the vegetative cover caused by
human and animal population pressures has led to the breaking down of
traditional farming systems based on long fallow periods to regenerate
soil fertility and resulting in its decrease and degradation.
1.04      Total leguminous production (ground nuts and cowpeas) has
been stagnant over the last 5 years (1984/85 - 1988/89), averaging about
252,000 tons per year. Whereas before the 1973/74 drought groundnut
production accounted for 73% of the total leguminous production, the
relative importance of the two legumes was reversed a few years after
the drought and groundnut production accounted for only some 12% of the
total in the late 1980s. The decrease of groundnut production was mainly
due to a plant infection ("Rosette") to which farmers appropriately
responded by cultivating cowpeas instead. Yields of all commodities are
much lower than in other West African countries and they vary strongly
from year to year depending essentially on rainfall.



1.05      Liveste3ck production is one of the moot important activities
in the economy. The livestock herd is composed eesentially of cattle,
sheep, and goats, and to a lesoer extent camels and hor"-es. During 1984-
89, the sector accounted for some 13 percent of GDP and 12 percent of
export earnings. In 1988-89 the herd size increased significantly, with
the number of cattle reaching 1.6 million head and that of aheep and
goats growing to 7.7 million. In addition to meat, notably goat meat,
which is conoumed locally, the livestock eector supplies milk for
domestic consumption, and hides and skins for domestic as well as
external markets. Production are mostly agro-pastoral and nomadic and
are characterized by poor husbandry practices, year-round low
nutritional levels and deteriorating grazing resources.
1.06      Average annual potential production of wood is estimated at
4.2 million i3, of which only 1.4 million m3 li available for consumption
because two thirds of the forestry reeources are so far distant from
consumption points that they are not economically accessible. Annual
consumption of wood is increasing at 4.2%, faster thah population growth
rates. Natural regeneration will not be able to satisfy the fuelwood
needs of the cities within a decade or two. Fuelwood consumption will
have to be met in part by cutting wood on forest land. Puelwood
extraction thus presents a serious danger to the environment around the
major cities.
C.   Exnerience with Past Lending and Lessons Learned
1.07      Development efforts in the past decade have proven inadequate
to increase the productivity of the agricultural resource base. The
Bank has to date financed three projects in rainfed agriculture (Dosso,
Maradi I and II), two irrigation projects (Namarigoungou and Irrigation
Rehabilitation); two projects in forestry (Forestry 7 and II); one
project in livestock.
1.08      In rainfed agriculture, both Dosso (Cr. 967-NIR) and Maradi
-I (Cr. 1026-NIR) Projects experienced implementation problems and
failed to increase crop production as expected, wainly because of
inadequate technical packages. The Livestock project (Cr. 885-NXR) was
aimed at establishing a participative approach to management of animal,
water and pasture resources. The Forestry II project (Cr. 885-NIR) was
reoriented to concentrate on the maintenance and rehabilitation of the
plantation already in place and on pilot rural resource management
schemes. The major lessons learned from these four completed projects
were:     (a) a single technical package is not widely applicable
because of heterogenous soils and localized rainfall patterns; (b) areas
with good production potential do exist but they are localized and of
small size;    (c) establishment of more integrated mixed farming
systems is needed in order to avoid further deterioration of natural
resources; (d) participation of the rural population in decision-making,
project implementation and maintenance is of crucial importance, and
self-help endeavors and decentralization should be encouraged; (e)
services and advice provided to farmers should be upgraded; and (f)
sufficient time is needed to reach sustainable performance under
projects aimed chiefly at institution building.
1.09      In the irri _ation subsector, the performance under the
completed Namarigoungou Project (Credit 851-NIR) was less than
satisfactory in terms of ERR (ex-post ERR of only 3%) but good in terms
of institution-building objectives. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR #6275, June 1986), stressed the low economic rate of return
inherent in large scale high unit cost approach adopted under the
project. It also highlighted the project's success in institution
building, including (a) the creation of ONAHA as a public irrigation
agency; (b) the introduction of improved agricultural technologies; (c)
the establishment of two cooperatives that function satisfactorily; and



(d) the high recovery (about 100%) of 0 & H costs and agricultural
credit through project cooperatives. The experience under the ongoing
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1618-NIR) is satisfactory
regarding crop production (200% cropping intensity) and high paddy
yields (about 5 T/ha). But the expertence has also demonstrated that
(a) public irrigation achemes are expensive and yield lower benefits
partly because of their exclusive focus on rice; (b) there is a need to
emphasize small scale private schemes for growing diverse products and
which permit partial or full recovery of investment costs; (c) state-
controlled cooperative organizations are prone to political and
bureaucratic meddling, and hence unsustainable; and (d) public
irrigation agencies face serious financial problems stemming mainly from
inefficient management.
1.10      The ongoing Small Rural Operations Project (Cr. 1890-NIR)
provides support to Government's decentralization policy through
reinforcement of capacity of field level technical services in project
preparation, execution, and evaluation and by facilitating the active
participation of beneficiary groups and non-governmental actors in every
aspect of small rural operations and investments, such as bottomland
improvements, small irrigated perimeters, soil conservation and
watershed management and social forestry, including village tree
nurseries. The lessons learned after three years of implementation
experience are that (a) during project design, it is necessary to
establish a management information system and appropLiate indicators to
evaluate project management performance; (b) it is possible to
decentralize financial operations to the local level, provided there is
an adequate project accounting and monitoring system in place; (c) there
is greater accountability of public officials in projects that require
financial participation of beneficiaries than those that do not; and (d)
sustainability and sacurity of investments in collective production
activities cannot be guaranteed without tenurial security over
cultivated land.
1.11      The actions taken by the Government to liberalize the
economic system, with Bank support under the First Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL I) and the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
(PESAP), resulted in: (a) complete liberalization of the cereals market;
(b) elimi.nation of indicative prices for groundnuts and cowpeas; (c)
setting of paddy and cotton producer prices according to the opportunity
cost criteria (border prices); (d) liberalization of cereals prices; (e)
replacement of compulsory domestic purchases by rice importers by a
protective tariff on imported rice; and (f) commitment to promoting
private initiatives.
D.   Government and Bank StrateYv in the Sector
1.12      Niger's principal objective in its development strategy is to
achieve sustainable per capita income growth with equity. The
achievement of this objective is a formidable challenge and requires not
only profound institutional reforms, but also significant human resource
development. The rural development strategy consists of four principal
elements: (a) food security; (b) natural resource management; (c)
intensification and diversification of production and increase of value-
added in order to improve rural incomes and living standards; and (d)
participation of the rural population in their own development
activities and private sector promotion through progressive
disengagement of the state and improvements in the regulatory and
incentive environment. IDA, in close collaboration with GON and other
donors is supporting the above stated strategy, with strong emphasis on
natural resource management, reinforcement of agricultural services and
small-scale private irrigation. With the support of IDA, the Nigerien
Government launched (i) the Small Rural Operations Project (CR1890-NIR)
in 1988, whose objectives are to promote off-season production in order



- 4 -
to increase total agricultural output and improve cultural practices and
natural resources management, and enhance productivity and rural income
growth; (ii) the Agricultural Research Project (Cr.2222-HIR) in 1991,
aimA.ng at improving production practices and technologies for better
food production and productivity and higher rural incomes; and (iii) a
Pilot Agricultural Extension Project. In additions (iv) a Private
irrigation Project has been recently appraised, aiming at improving the
country's food security through the development of emall scale private
irrigation schemes; and (v) the first phase of a Natural Resource
Management Program is under preparation (FY93) and is designed to stop
and reverse the procese of natural resources degradation in order to
secure sustainable agricultural growth, to restore biodivereity and to
manage forests and wildlife sustainably for the benefit of the rural
communities. The proposed Agricultural Services Project will    inter
alia constitute the link between research and production by transferring
the research findings of the Agricultural Research Project to farmers
fields. It will benefit for that purpose from the lessons learned under
the pilot Agricultural Extension Project and the Small Rural Operations
Project. The future Private Irrigation and Natural Resources Management
Projects will be making an extensive use of the staff and services of
this proposed project for their implementation, as no specific extension
system will be set up in parallel for these projects.
E.    he Pilt Agricultural Mxtension Proiect  (PRSAA)
1.13      In 1987, the government requested the Bank's assistance to
set-up a pilot Agricultural Exvonsion Project to be financed from the
proceeds of the Small Rural operations Project (PPODR), (Cr. 1890-NIR).
In its initial stage, the pilot project was limited to the districts
covered by the PPODR and to agricultural extension only. It was expanded
in 1990 to include livestock extension in three districts. The selection
of the districts took into account the varioue agro-pastoral situations
in the band of the country between the 250mm and 500mm isohyteo
bordering with Nigeria and the 750 isohyte bordering with Benin. An
informal evaluation of PRSAA by a multidiscipiinary team of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock was undertaken at the end of 1990.
1.14      The principal -alitative findings of this evaluation were
the following:
* increase in the sense of responsibility among extension workers
and a change in the behavior of supervisors resulting in
improved relations and greater initiative at all levels;
improvement of working methods;
* improvement in relations between village extension worlkers
(VEW) and farmers;
greater receptivity of farmers to the extension message; and
* closer links between extension and research.
1.15     The evaluation also indicated that there is a need to:
* improve the professional capacities of the village extension
workers (VEWs) and the subjett matter specialists (SMS) in
order to identify, prepare and teach relevant extension
messages to farmers;
establish an efficient monitoring and evaluation system;
* establish a polyvalent extension team to eliminate
contradictory messages and to improve the ratio of VEW to
farmer families; and
* encourage the formation of grassroots farmer organizations
capable of self-management, basic marketing of produce and
distribution of inputs.



5-
* increase the scope of knowledge and expertise of Subject Matter
Specialists to include marketing aspects and sociological
issues such as creation of contact groups (men and wvmen);
* continuously train supervisory staff to better fulfill their
role of planning, programming and evaluating of extension
activities and managing of their VEWs.
No systematic measurement of'adoption rates has been carried out under
the pilot phase but indications are that the recommended techniques are
generally well received and their adoption is spreading. A more
detailed description of the pilot operation and the results obtained are
in Annex 1.
1.16     The proposed project has been prepared by Government with Bank
assistance and is based on the experience gained and lessons learned
during the implementation of the pilot operation.
II. AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTIONS AND SUPPORT SERVICES
A.   A*ricultural Institutions
2.01     Agricultural sector activities are the responsibility of two
ministriee, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and the
Ministry of Hydraulics and the Environment. Both Ministries exist in
this present form since December 1989 and their structure is the result
of mult'ple reorganizations since 1985. Each ministry has decentralized
its services to both the department and district (arrondissement)
levels, with greater focus on the latter.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
2.02     The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is divided into three
so-called "functional support" directorates (Studies and Programs;
Administrative and Financial Affairs; and Plant Protection) and three
specialized operational directorates (Agriculture; Rural Engineering;
and Livestock and Animal Industries). The two directorates that provide
services to farmers and livestock producers are the Directorate of
Agriculture and the Directorate of Livestock.
2.03     The Directorate of Agriculture is subdivided into a number of
services or units: Extension and Promotion of Agricultural Crops;
Inputs, Processing Control, and Seed Control; and Agricultural
Statistics. The Deputy Director of Agriculture also heads the Extension
Service. The Directorate of Livestock and Animal Industries (DEIA) is
similarly divided: Development of Production and Animal Industries,
Animal Health; Animal Nutrition and Forage Resource Management;
Statistics and Documentation. The Deputy Director is in charge of a
Research-Extension Coordination Unit, which, in its turn, is composed of
a "Training/Extension" section and a "Research Liaison Section."
2.04     Each of the two directorates is represented at department and
district level by a departmental director (7) and a district chief (35).
The organization chart for the Departmental Directorate is an exact
replica of the central directorate. The Urban Community of Niamey has
the same arrangements as the departments. The main towns of the
departments and districts are provided with Agriculture and Livestock
community services.



-6-
The Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment
2.05     The Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment is divided into four
technical directorates (Water Resources, Hydraulic Infrastructure,
Surface Irrigation Development and Environment). This ministry, like the
other ministries, has decentralized its services to both the
departmental and district levels; however, the Directorate of the
Environment has only a limited number of agents (44 village extension
workers and 21 supervisors) who could be integrated into the extension
service.
Office National d'Am6nagements Hvdroagricoles EONAHA)
2.06     ONAHA is a public irrigation agency which provides technical
support to the irrigation cooperatives in the public irrigation
perimeters. ONAHA continues to benefit from substantial technical
assistance support from various sources and financial support through
the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1618-NIR). The results of
ONAHA activities are mixed. The yields achieved by the cooperatives are
satisfactory but the financial situation of some of the cooperatives and
of ONAIiA itself is critical.
The Ministry of National and Higher Education and Technoloov
2.07     The Ministry is the tutelary ministry for the University of
Niamey and its Faculty of Agronomy; the Faculty of Sciences with a
Department of Biology; and for specialized research institutes such as
the Human Sciences Research Institute (IRSH), the Solar Energy
Organization (ONERSOL) and the Institute of Radioisotopes (IRI).
Agricultural training at the lower level is being provided by Institut
Pratique de Ddveloppement Rural (IPDR) in Kollo, 25 km outside Niamey.
IPDR is the main agricultural training center, which trains agricultural
personnel, who work as basic extension agents, but there is so far no
training in agricultural extension as such. Despite the merger of the
former "Ecole des Cadres de l'Elevage" and IPDR, the programs have so
far not really been integrated. The Adult Functional Literacy Department
is in charge of the organization and supervision of functional literacy
training throughout the country.
Local Government
2.08     The village (some 10,000 in total) is the basic territorial and
social entity in Niger. Several villages make up a "canton" (of which
there are more than 200), each governed by a chief who is elected by the
chiefs of the villages concerned and who receives a Government
allowance. The 35 districts are legal entities and have autonomous
budgets funded from local fees and taxes, and the Government transfer
payments and loans from the "Caisse des pr&ts aux collectivit6s
territoriales." The districts are governed by district Governors ("sous
pr6fets") and the departments by "pr6fets", who report to the Ministry
of the Interior. The district and department Governors coordinate
government services in their respective areas through technical
committees respectively (COTEAR) ("Comit6s Techniques
d'Arrondisements"), and COTEDEP ("Comit6s Techniques de D6partements".)
This structure is gradually being complemented by the Development
Society ("Socift6 de D6veloppement" - SD), which is a hierarchical
structure of development councils at village ("Conseil Villageois de
Developpement" - CVD), canton ("Conseil Local de D6veloppement" -CLD),
district ("Conseil Sous-R6gional de Developpement" - CRD), and national
levels ("Conseil National de D6veloppement" - CND).



- 7-
Non-09vernmental  oanizations INGO_sl
2.09     Historically, NOOa have played a lesser role in Niger's rural
sector than in most neighboring countries due primarily to the
Government's centrist and highly interventionist: orientation. The
Government recognizes 86 NGOs, of which some 50 percent are non-
resident. only 6 of this total are national NGOO. In contrast, there are
184 NGOs in Mali of which 122 are local; 142 officially recognized NGOs
in Burkina Faso and about 120 NGOO in Senegal. Recent policy changes in
Niger have now opened the way for greater NOO involvement. These changes
include: (a) permission for national NGOs to operate legally, with
effect from 1988; (b) approval of micro-irrigation projects and other
small rural operations at the regional or district level without prior
approval from Niamey (with effect from 1989); and (c) permission for
regional and district authorities (pr6fets and sous-pr6fets) to approve
all micro-projects which do not require contribution from the government
or donors (effective since 1990).
B.    Agricultural Supnort Services
Acricultural and Livestock Extension
2.10     Agricultural and Livestock extension is the responsibility
respectively of the Directorate of Agriculture and the Directorate of
Livestock. Pre-project extension services throughout the country were -
and still are in those parts of the country not covered by the pilot
project - limited to input distribution (provided they were available),
monitoring of the agricultural activities and harvests and monitoring
infestations. Advice to farmers is crop specific and rare and irregular
with practically no follow-up. The reasons for this situation are lack
of means of transport, lack of fuel in the rare cases where vehicles or
motorcycles exist, and lack of any training of the field staff. The
only activity concerning extension of new technologies is limited to a
few demonstrations which are often of little relevance to farmers.
Agents supervise, however, the execution of research trials in farmers'
fields but they have no influence in the planning or evaluation of these
trials. Livestock extension is largely limited to activities aimed at
animal health improvement, prevention of epidemics, inspection of meat
and meat products and collection of data concerning cattle marketing.
The various livestock projects which are being financed by other donors
each have their own extension approach and method.
2.11     The efficiency of extension is presently hampered by unclear
hierarchy as the department directors are not subordinated to the
central Directors of agriculture and of livestock in Niamey, and the
District Chiefs are also fairly independent. An additional issue is the
frequent transfer of the field staff from one district to the other,
without consultation of the Directorate in Niamey and without informing
the interested farmers. The proposed project will address this issue.
Agricultural Research
2.12     Research in agriculture and natural resources is carried out by
several organizations in Niger. The National Agricultural Research
Institute (INRAN) manages research programs on rainfed and irrigated
crops, livestock, forestry and farming systeme with a concentration on
rainfed cereals and legun.e crops. A significant number of development
projects in the natural resources sector include a research component of
adaptive on-farm/on-project research. The teaching staff of the
faculties of Agronomy and Science in the University of Niamey carry out
research in natural resources. In addition, ICRISAT's Sahelian Center
located in south-western Niger, directs regional research programs
covering pearl millet, groundnuts, and management of natural resources.



2.13     The IDA financed National Agricultural Research Project (Credit
2122-NIR) represents the first five-year phase of a long-term
development program of agricultural research in Niger. specific project
targets are to improve (a) priority setting and resource allocation
methodology; (b) coordination in the formulation and execution of
national and international reeearch programs; (c) research programming,
budgeting and financial management; (d) staff planning, training, and
career development; and (e) linkage between research, extension and
farmers.
gncalLiterag
2.14     The Adult Functional Literacy Department ("Direction de
l'Alphabetiaation et de la Formation des Adultee" - DAFA) of the
Ministry of National and Higher Education and Technology is responsible
for the organization and supervision of functional literacy and numeracy
training in the country.
2.15     During the last ten years, DAFA has run general literacy
courses for around 15,000 - 20,000 participants annually (three hours
per day, five days a week, three months a year). Despite improvements
during the 1980s the efficiency of these courses is low: about 50% of
those registered in 1987-88 dropped out during the course, and only
about 40% of those tested at the end were classified as "literate". The
low efficiency is explained by factors such as: (L) insufficient
resources for the DAFA to train its staff, to prepare pedagogical
materials, and to supervise the courses; (ii) low level of qualification
and motivation of instructors who are recruited among literate villagers
for the duration of the course, trained for one to two weeks, and paid
about half of the legal monthly minimum wage; and (iii) difficulty in
motivating participants to regularly attend the course, given competing
demands on their time. This is particularly the case for women, who drop
out twice as frequently as men. These issues concerned, however, general
literacy courses, not functional literacy training envisaged under the
project. It is expected that, in the future, the Bank will be extending
its involvement in functional literacy training in Niger in the health
and population area under the Population project (recently negotiated)
and that other similar programs may be sponsored under future education
projects.
Farmers' Associations
2.16     There have been virtually no autonomous local organizations in
the rural sector, or serving as the rural voice on the national level.
The irrigation cooperatives in the ONAHA schemes, the indigenous
grassroots associations, such as the Samaria and village cooperatives
are, at best, quasi-governmental creations incorporated into a
centralized hierarchical structure. The Government is, however,
committed to decentralize decision-making authority and to open up
community development to private sector intervention and to transfer
administrative and financial autonomy to rural organizations.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Obiectives and Rationale
3.01     The project is a five-year time slice of a long-term national
program. Its principal objective is to improve incomes of the rural
population and to diminish rural poverty. The project will help to
achieve this by improving the effectiveness of agricultural and
livestock and environment protection extension, by improving the linkage



-9-
between research and extension and by providing support to village
populations through functional literacy and numeracy training.
B.    Summarv Descrivtion
3.02     The project aims at strengthening agricultural, livestock and
environment protection extension with a view to generate increased
agricultural production and sustb.-ned growth of farmers' incomes. The
project would build on experience gained during the implementation of
the pilot project. The main elements of the program are:
(a)   efficient organization of extension services, provided with
adequate human and physical resources, at the farm, regional
and nationel levels?
(b)   regular and continuoue training of responsible officiale at
each level by means of a system of fortnightly, monthly and
annual training sessions, including training courses held
outside Niger or conducted by external participants;
(c)   strengthening of the linkages between extension and national
and regional agricultural research in order to find
solutions to farmers' problems. Technical problems such as
those related to soil and water conservation,
diversification of production through cropping systems
adapted to particular ecological zones and to the
environment, soil fertility, and ecologically adapted
varieties will receive priority under the adaptive research
programs;
(d)   strengthening of relations between crop, livestock and
environment services so as to ensure effective extension
support for the agricultural, livestock and environmental
protection programs;
(e)   functional literacy and numeracy training both for men and
women, including stepped-up promotion of participation by
women to enable them to play a more active role in rural
development and to assume progressively a greater role in
village activities and management.
3.03     Investment will be in (a) vehicles and equipment; (b) minor
civil works; (c) incremental operating cost; (d) training; (e) short-
term technical assistance to establish and periodically supervise a
project accounting and budgeting system; and (f) independent audit of
project accounts.
3.04     The project aims at consolidating the extension activities
started under the pilot project in three departments (Dosso, Tahoua,
Tillaberi) and extending them progressively to two additional
departments (Maradi, Zinder) and to the urban community of Niamey. In
these departments the project will cover 18 agricultural districts (out
of a total of 35). Under the pilot project, extension covered livestock
in only three districts; at the project's completion, livestock and
environmental protection will be an integral part of extension in all
districts covered by the project. Overall, about 60% of cultivated land
will be covered by the project at completion.
3.05     The project will be implemented under the responsibility
("Tutelle") of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, in informal
association with the Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment and the
Ministry of National and Higher Education. The Secretary General of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock will supervise and coordinate the



- 10 -
project implementation. In this task he will be assisted by a project
coordinator and by an autonomous Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
C.    Detailed Features
Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services
3.06     Based on the experience gained and the lessons learned during
the pilot phase, the adopted extension system will be extended over the
project period to two additional departments and the Urban District of
Niamey. Moreover, the extension services will become polyvalent and the
extension messages will cover not only agriculture but also livestock
and environmental protection. In the long term, the government aims at
implementing the system in all regions where rainfall is above 350
mm/year. The credit will help to finance extension activities only in
those areas where no other financing - under other projects - is
available.
3.07     Based on the pilot project experience, one VEW is able to serve
on average about 2,000 farm families. Taking into account the estimated
farmer population of the districts where the project will be
implemented, the number of VEW's will have to be increased by about 65.
It is expected that this will be done partly by transfers and
redeployment of staff already employed by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock and partly by recruitment of pupils who have successfully
completed the training at the IPDR school. The projected staffing is
detailed in the Table below.
Staff Involved in Extension Work
XO          Yc
Field Level              VEW                      345         410
District Level           Supervisor                60          66
coordinator               18          18
Extension Leaders         18          18
Departmental Level       Coordinator                7           7
Extension Leaders          7           7
Subj Matter Specialist   20           20
Central Level            HL Staff                   9          11
M&E Staff                  0           6
Training Specialist        2           2
The above extension staff numbers are based on the following principles:
* 1 VEW per 2,000 agricultural households;
* 1 Supervisor per 6-8 VEWs or 3-4 Supervisors per District
* 4 SMS per Department
* The departmental staff reflects the number of Departments to be
covered (5+ urban district of Niamey) and the Central
organizational set-up which provides for the Assistant Director
of Agriculture to be responsible for agricultural extension and
the Assistant Director of Livestock to be his second, as well
as responsible for livestock extension.
3.08        The project aims at a polyvalent VEW force. Experience has
shown that one VEW who is capable of advising the farmer in questions
concerning both agriculture and livestock is in a better position to
understand the problems of a farmer household and to give him better and
more balanced advice. Moreover the danger of conflicting extension
advice is eliminated. The polyvalence of VEW's will be achieved by (i)
intensive training of those VEW's who are willing and capable of



- 11 -
becoming polyvalent; and (ii) adapting the curriculum of the
agricultural training in IPDR at Kollo, so that each pupil receivea
training both in agriculture and livestock.
3.09        The extension eystem which will be applied will include (i)
establishing and adopting a time bound and supervised work program; (ii)
providing regular and continuous training to etaff at all levels; and
(iii) strengthening the links between extension and research. Where
relevant the extension messages will include meseages addressing the
particular agricultural concerns of women. Extension will closely
collaborate with - and foster the creation of - village groups. The
content of extension messages has largely been identified during the
pilot project; it will be further developed in close collaboration with
research.
3.10        Concerning agriculture and livestock extension there is
currently an adequate body of low-cost, proven technologies ready for
transfer to farmers and livestock owners. Other technical innovations,
the results of which are still in the research station stage, will be
tested on farms to generate additional technical messages. Continuous
close linkage with research in the future will be essential to ensure
sustained progress.
3.11        Messages specifically addressing environmental issues will
be introduced progressively. Messages such as contour ploughing, water
harvesting, composting, use of rock phosphate and agroforestry exist
within the research system. Qualified staff of the Department of
Agriculture will be identified to become SMSs in this domaine. They will
be trained by researchers and, if need be, sent abroad for study tours
or short term training. Also the Department of Environment will be
requested to second selected higher-level staff to the Department of
Agriculture to act as SMSs. The role of the SMSs will be to: (i)
establish an inventory of proven technologies that stop or reverse soil
degradation and fertility decline, (ii) define extension messages and
prepare extension training material, and (iii) train the VEWs in these
techniques. Progress in this area will be reviewed during the mid-term
review. The environmental management project (under preparation - FY 93)
will further enhance effectiveness of extension in the domain of natural
resources management and protection. It will provide messages to the
attention of rural communities as well as governmental and non-
governmental services to make them better understand the processes and
causes of natural resources degradation and the actions to be taken, and
techniques to be employed in order to halt these processes.
Geographical Coveraae
3.12        By the end of year 5 of implementation, the project is
scheduled to cover about 80% of irrigated land and 60% of rainfed
cultivated land. The Project will be implemented in the following
departments and districts:
Denartment                  Districts
Dosso                       Boboye, Dosso, Doutchi, Gaya, Loga
Tahoua                      Bouza, Konni, Madaoua
Tillaberi                   Filingue, Kollo, Say, Tillaberi
Maradi                      G. Roumdji, Madarounfa, Aguie, Tessaoua
Zinder                      Matameye, Magaria
Communaut6 urbaine de Niamey
At project completion about 6,150 villages will be directly affected by
the project out of a total number of about 10,000.
3.13        The project implementation timetable (see chart) is based on
the following criteria: (i) the district (to be included in the project)



- 12 -
has a relatively high village density and an adequate average rainfall;
and (ii) geographically the district will be adjoining another district
where the project is already being implemented. The relatively slow pace
of extending the project to additional districts reflects the lack of
qualified VEW's and the need for proper training and planning prior to
implementation.
Linkage with Research
3.14        An agreement (Protocol d'accord) has been signed by INRAN
and the directorate of Agriculture and Livestock. According to this
agreement INRAN would (i) plan and supervise research trials in farmer's
fields; (ii) attend joint monthly meetings with extension services to
discuss priority issues to be addressed by research on the one hand and
by extension on the other hand; and (iii) train Subject Matter
Specialists. The Agriculture Research Project provides funds for
agricultural inputs and equipment for this component. The present
project would finance incremental operating costs such as transportation
costs of scientists to the villages, travel allowances to attend
training sessions and joint meetings. Aseurances have been obtained at
negotiations that a detailed program of cooperation between INRAN and
the Directorates of Agriculture and Livestock be submitted for IDA
comments and approval not later than March 31 of each year (para 6.01
(a)).
Fupctional Literacy
3.15        The functional literacy component will be executed under the
supervision of DAFA. Although DAFA has a long experience in this
activity, the results of its general village literacy classes were often
disappointing (see para. 2.14 and 2.15). Under the project, literacy
training in local languages will start on a pilot basis in about 10
villages during the first project year. The extension staff (SMSs,
District extension chiefs and VEWs) will closely collaborate with DAFA
specialists in the development of the pedagogical material to be used in
literacy training. This material would reflect, and would be based on
the most commonly extended messages to farmers and livestock owners. A
separate set of messages with emphasis on vegetable production,
nutrition and childcare would be developed for women and women farmers.
Orientation workshops for extension staff to familiarize them with
functional literacy training and seminars on development of literacy
materials are planned. The progress of these 10 pilot classes will be
closely monitored and if required DAFA teaching methods will be modified
based on lessons learned from the pilot operation and on examples of
successful literacy training in neighboring countries as well as from
successful literacy courses run in the health and population area and
executed by DAFA with assistance of UNICEF. The project will provide
funds for DAFA staff for training and for visits to neighboring
countries (Mali, Senegal) to compare experience and to learn from
methods applied there.
3.16        It is expected that over the project implementation period
about 350 villages will benefit from adult literacy and numeracy
training. In selected villages this training would be complemented by
post-literacy training in community management and simple accounting. It
is expected that functional literacy and numeracy training in the
project area as well as outside will continue well beyond the project
implementation period. Although, as a result of the project, DAFA's
operating cost will increase, government's recurrent expenditures beyond
the project period are not expected to increase because after an initial
period of setting up the program when most expenses are incurred, DAFA's
role will be progressively reduced to supervision and quality control.
Also no new staff are expected to be hired by DAFA for implementation of
this component.



- 13 -
Training
3.17        Systematic in-service training will be a key feature of the
project. Fortnightly training sessions will be held for the VEWs to
upgrade their professional and technical skills and to communicate to
them specific recommendations concerning agricultural practices to be
applied in the following fortnight. The VEWs will report problems
encountered to the SMSs and will seek advice as to their resolution. The
fortnightly sessions for the VEWs will be complemented by monthly
workshops for SMSs aimed at upgrading their skills in their respective
fields. Researchers from INRAN will participate in these sessions to the
largest possible extent to discuss with the SMSs issues encountered and
will propose solutions to be passed on to the VEWs. Orientation and
induction courses would be held for all staff involved in the operation
with the participation of the extension field staff of the Bank. The
content of this training and its duration would vary depending on the
level of staff receiving training, but will generally focus on how to:
-     diagnose farmers' constraints and analyze the relevance of
extension recommendations;
-     increase farmers' understanding and adoption of extension
messages;
-     conduct monthly workshops and identify the extension impact
points for following months; and
-     plan and implement on-farm trials.
Yearly training programs would be prepared during an annual training
workshop to be organized well ahead of the planting season (before end
of March) and will be submitted to IDA for comments and approval not
later than March 31 of each year. Assurances to this effect have been
obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01(b)).
3.18        In addition to the above systematic in-service training, the
project will provide for training modules for SMS in selected technical
fields and for staff responsible for monitoring and evaluation and the
preparation of extension materials. These training modules will be
organized with the assistance of the Bank extension field staff in
collaboration with research and training institutions in the country.
Moreover, key project staff would be sent to selected training
institutions abroad for training in the following areas: Monitoring and
evaluation, Rural Extension, Information support, Farming systems, and
Agricultural services. Finally, study tours will be organized to other
countries with strong and successful extension systems. Some of these
study tours could combine training in an institution in a developed
country with field tour in a developing country.
Monitorin_ and Evaluation
3.19        A monitoring and evaluation unit has been set up at the
central level under the authority of the Secretary General of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The unit will be headed by a unit
chief and is an integral part of the extension system.
The objectives of the monitoring activities will be (i) to provide
regular feedback from the field to regional and central managers on
implementation progress as compared to targets for the key indicators to
be agreed upon during the review of the first work program, (ii) to
measure results in terms of adoption rates by contact and other farmers
(men and women), (iii) to identify reasons for farmers' non- or low
adoption when necessary , and (iv) to assist extension and research in
diagnostic analyses of current practices and development constraints and
potentials. The central unit, working in close cooperation with
agriculture, livestock and environment managers, will be responsible for
planning, coordinating and supervising the monitoring and evaluation
activities to be carried out by the field implementing structuees and



- 14 -
will provide training to their staff. Each departmental directorate will
have a monitoring unit headed by a chief. The number of agents in charge
of monitoring will depend on the importance of extension activities in
the department.
3.20        The project results will be evaluated yearly during a joint
review to be held not later than October 31 of each year. This review
will also include Government's compliance with its commitments to
provide to the project adequate annual budgetary allocations and provide
required staff and facilities needed for project implementation. In
addition to the yearly reviews a mid-term review would be held not later
than October 30, 1994. This review would concentrate in more detail on
all other implementation aspects of the project including, but not
limited to, continuous relevance of extension messages, progress in
developing new technical messages by research, progress in reaching
women farmers and progress in the implementation of the literacy
component. Assurances to the above have been reached at negotiations
(para. 6.01(c)).
Accounting and Financial Manaaement
3.21        The project accounts will be centralized at the Agricultural
Directorate in Niamey. A detailed proposal as to the accounting system
to be put into place, procedures to be followed, profile of agents
needed and equipment required will be prepared by consultants appointed
under PPF financing.
Civil Works, Vehicles and Eauipment
3.22        Provision of civil works under the project will be limited
to the construction of 66 simple training shelters (one for each
supervision zone) at an estimated cost of CFAF 2,800,000 each. Meetings
and training sessions at the department and district level will be held
in existing facilities. The project will not finance lodgings for VEWs;
the villages will be expected to provide the VEW with simple lodgings
built with traditional materials wherever necessary. The project will
provide about 60 vehicles (four wheel drives and pick-ups) for higher
level staff at the central-, department-, and district-level,
motorcycles for supervisors and mopeds for each VEW and M&E agent. The
mopeds and motorcycles will be the property of the administration (local
government) which will be responsible for their maintenance and their
insurance. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations
(para. 6.01(d)). The project will also finance miscellaneous office
equipment including computers for the accounting unit and for the M&E
unit, office and training supplies and equipment for the literacy
centers.
D.    Project cost and Financing
Prolect Cost
3.23        The total base cost of the proposed project, net of taxes,
is estimated at CFAF 5.3 billion (USs 17,9 million). Base cost estimates
reflect June 1991 prices. Physical contingencies amounting to US$ 0.7
million are estimated to be 15% of civil works and 10% of other
investment costs; their total amounts to 4% of base cost. Price
contingencies amounting to USs 1.2 million, representing 7% of base cost
and 6% of total cost are based on forecasts of international inflation
for foreign supplied goods, on estimated annual inflation in Niger for



- 15 -
local coats 1/, and on an implementation period of five years (see
para. 3.37). The breakdown of total project coat of US$ 19.8 million is
as follows:
Project Cost Summary   1/ 2/
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total                Total
Foreign   Base
---- (CAF millions)-=    ----(USS million) ----  Echange  costs
Extension
- Agric. & Livestock      1861.9  1880.2   3742.1    6.8        7.0     13.8    50        77
- Environment               98.3   143.0    241.3    0.4        0.5      0.9    59         5
Sub-total Extension        1960.2  2023.2   3983.4    7.2        7.5     14.7    51        82
On-Farm Research             17.8    13.3       31.0    0.1      0        0.1    43          1
Monitoring and Evaluation   47.1    61.2    108.3    0.2         0.2      0.4    57          2
Functional Literacy         257.0    68.5    325.5    0.9        0.3      1.2    21          7
Refinancing of PPF          203.6   203.6    407.3    0.8        0.7      1.5    50          9
Base Costs                 2485.7  2369.8   4855.5    9.2        8.7     17.9    49        100
Physical Contingencies    58.2   122.6    180.8    0.2         0.5      0.7    68         4
Price Contingencies       125.5   223.8    349.3    0.4       0.8       1.2    64         7
Total Project Costs        26§2.4  2716.2   5385.6    9.8    10.0        19.8    50        1.1
/  Percentages of foreign exchange and total base costs calcuiated on the CFAF
costs and included one decimal place which has been rounded.
2/  The above amounts in CFAF differ from those appearing in the summary cost tables
(Annex 2) and in the detailed cost tables in the Project Implementation File
because of different exchange rates used at appraisal and at negotiations.
Profect Financina
3.24      Project costs would be financed by a USS 18.0 million equivalent
IDA Credit on standard terms, and the balance (US$ 1.8 million) by
Government and project beneficiaries. The IDA Credit would finance about
91% of total project costs net of taxes (USS 19.8 million), including about
99% of the project's investment costs, and about 85% of the incremental
recurrent costs. Project financing would be as follows:
1/    Annual projected price increases in %:
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Local Costs                      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Foreign Costs                    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9



- 16 -
Financing Plan
CFAF billion         USS million          1*
Government
and Beneficiaries              0.5                   1.8             9
IDA                            4.9                  18.0            91
TOTAL                          5.4                  19.8           100
E.   Procurement
3.25      The table below summarizes the project elemento and their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.
Sumary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Total
Project Element                   ICB      LCB    Other    X.BAF        Cost
…  -----       US$ million--------------
1. WORKS
1.1 Construction Trg. Shelters             0.9                           0.9
(0.9)                        (0.9)
1.2 Construction Literacy centers                           0.1 1/       0.1
2. GOODS
2.1 Equipment, Furniture,
Materials                     0.3     0.1      0.2                 0.6
(0.3)   (0.1)   (0.2)                (0.6)
2.2 Vehicles                       4.0     0.4      0.1                  4.5
(4.0)   (0.4)   (0.1)                (4.5)
3.  TRAINING                                        0.9                  0.9
(0.9)               (0.9)
4. CONSULTANCIES
4.1 Accounting/Audit                                0.3                  0.3
(0.3) 2/            (0.3)
S.  MISCELLANEOUS
5.1 Refinancing PPF                                 1.5                  1.5
(1.5)               (1.5)
5.2 Incremental Recurrent Costs                     9.3     1.7 3/      11.0
(9.3)               (9.3)
Total                              4.3      1.4    12.3                 19.8
( -)    (iT7)  (=:)                 (T18.0)
Notet Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit. N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
1/   Contribution of beneficiaries
2/ US$15,100 will be in the form of a sole source contract for. set-up of
accounting system and one follow-up mission by the accountant who set
up the Niger SRO accounting system which the Extension Unit has been
using under PPF and Small Rural operations (Credit 1890-NIR) funding.
3/   Contribution of Government and communities.
3.26      Civil Works:  The only civil works included in the project ares
(a) construction of 66 simple training shelters, one for each supervision
zone for the fortnightly training of VEWs (estimated total cost of
US$900,000) and (b) construction of functional literacy training centers in



- 17 -
340 villages (estimated total cost of US$100,000, financed by the local
communities). Because the contract values are emall and the works are
geographically scattered, and are phased over time, foreign firms are not
likely to bid for their construction. Civil works for the construction of
training shelters would be contracted under LCB procedures satisfactory to
the Aseociation. Construction of the literacy centers (not financed by IDA)
would be carried out by the local communities.
3.27      Goods:  Goods financed under the project would include vehicles,
furniture, office equipment, audio-visual equipment, demonstration
equipment for the VEWs, materials and spare parts, and training materials.
Most of these goods would be procured in the first two years of the
project, except for replacement vehicles and equipment, and could be
grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 each and procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA'e Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985). Where ICB
procedures are used, a preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods
would be given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines. Contracts for goods procured through ICB would total US$4.3
million, representing about 84% of the total value of goods to be procured.
Goods procured under contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not exceed US$0.5 million
equivalent and which would represent about 10% of the total value of goods,
would be suitable for procurement through LCB under procedures acceptable
to IDA. Functional literacy texts would be prepared by the Ministry of
Education's Adult Functional Literacy Department and purchased directly
from them (estimated value of US$135,000). The remaining 4% of goods, which
cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent, would
be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers,
provided that the aggregate amounts of such procurement do not exceed
US$0.2 million equivalent.
3.28      Services:  Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$0.3
million, would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines for the
use of consultants, and all such contracts would be subject to prior
review. These consulting services would be for design and establishment of
the project accounting system, periodic accounting support and annual
audits. The cost estimates for consultancies are net of taxes. The only
single-source selection of consultants identified at this stage would be
for the accounting specialist to design and set up the project accounting
system (US$15,100).
3.29      The Agriculture Department of the MinLstry of Agriculture and
Livestock is the principal implementing agency responsible for carrying out
the project, including all procurement. The preparation of a detailed
procurement plan with timetables to be included in the project file, would
be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit (para. 6.02(a)).
3.30      A Country Procurement Assessment Report was completed in October
1985. At that time, the system of laws and regulations enacted over the
last four decades was somewhat outdated and sometimes contradictory. With
the assistance of IDA (under the Public Enterprise Institutional
Development Project --Cr. 1838-NIR), the government prepared a
comprehensive new procurement regulation, and in April 1989 promulgated a
new public procurement code. In general, Niger's current procurement laws
and regulations do not conflict with IDA's Guidelines, with a few
exceptions. Regarding ICB, no special exemptions, permits or licenses need
to be specified in credit documents because Niger's procurement practices
as well as Article 5 of the new Procurement Code allow Bank procedures to
take precedence. In order for LCB procedures to be acceptable to IDA, the
credit documents should include a waiver of the regulation that grants
preference to local contractors and suppliers and specify that (a) foreign
bidders should be allowed to participate; (b) all evaluation criteria



- 18 -
should be specified in quantitative terms in the bidding documents; (c) the
time period for bid preparation must be at least 30 days; and (d)
negotiated contracts may not be attempted without IDA prior approval.
3.31      IDA-financed contracts for works, goods and services above a
threshold of US$ 100,000 equivalent each would be subject to IDA's prior
review procedures. The review process would cover about 66% of the total
value of the amount contracted for works, goods and services financed by
IDA. Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels
would be carried out on about one in 10 works contracts and one in 5 goods
and services contracts.
3.32      Procurement information will be collected and recorded as
follows:
(a)  prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b)  comprehensive semi-annual reports to the Bank by the borrower
indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including beat estimates of allowances for
physical and price contingency;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time
for individual contracts;
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement; and
(c) a completion report prepared within six months of the credit's
closing date.
F. Disbursements
3.33      The project corresponds to a five-year program and the IDA
credit would be disbursed over a period of five and a half years. The
expected closing date is June 30, 1998. The estimated semi-annual
disbursement schedule is at Annex 5.
3.34      The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of the categories
shown below:



- 19 -
8 of
Proposed IDA         Expenditures
Allocations            Financed
Category of Expenditure                    USS million             by IDA
Civil Works (excluding literacy                0.8                   100%
training facilities)
Vehicles, Equipment, Materials,                4.3                   100%
Furniture
Consultant Services                            0.3                   100%
Training                                       0.9                   100%
operating Costs  l/                            8.5                   100%
Refunding of Project                           1.5                   100%
Preparation Advance
Unallocated                                    1.7
TOTAL                                         18.0
l/   Incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of
salaries of local contractual staff, travel allowances, office
supplies and equipment, vehicles and fuel, excluding, however, all
expenditures incurred in connection with the maintenance and
insurance of the motorcycles and mopeds.
3.35      Disbursement of the IDA credit would be fully documented except
for expenditures valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent, which would be
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals
under SOEs would be retained at the Department of Agriculture for review
by IDA staff during supervision missions and for regular annual audits.
3.36      To expedite disbursements and ensure that funds for the project
are available when needed, the Government would open a Special Account in a
commercial bank. Immediately after credit effectiveness, IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$1.0 million into the Special Account, representing
about four months' expenditures. The account would be used to finance the
local and foreign costs of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. IDA would
replenish the fund upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred
expenditure and evidence that such expenditures were eligible for financing
out of the Special Account. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account
would accompany replenishment requests.
3.37      Disbursements have been estimated using a five and a half year
project implementation period instead of the standard seven year historical
disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Niger. Faster
disbursements are anticipated because: (i) 60% of the investments will take
place during the first two years of the project; and (ii) about 53% of the
credit would be disbursed against selected items of the concerned
institutions' annual operating budgets, and therefore, would not be subject
to implementation delays.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Overall Proiect Organization and Management
4.01      The project will be implemented under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The Secretary General of this
Ministry will supervise and coordinate the project execution. In this task
he will be assisted by a Project Coordinator and by a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit created under hie offtce. The day-to-day project execution
will be the responsibility of the Directors of Agriculture and Livestock
who will each appoint their respective Aesistant Directors as responsible
for extension and field project implementation. Their principal role will
be the supervision of the project implementation at the departmental and
district levels. The Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment will be
associated in project execution by its Department of Environment, and the
Ministry of National and Higher Education by its Directorate of Adult
Literacy Training.
4.02      Coordination at the highest level will be insured by a
Coordinating Committee ("comit6 de pilotage") composed of the project
coordinator representing the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock, the directors (or their representatives) of
Agriculture, of Livestock, of Plant Protection and INRAN (Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock), the director of Environment (Ministry of
Hydraulics and Environment), the directors of Programs and Plan, and Public
Debt (Ministry of Economy and Finance), the director of Functional Literacy
(Ministry of National Education and Research), and the director of
International Organization and Conferences (Ministry of Foreign Affairs).
The role of this committee would be: (i) review and approval of the work
program and the annual budget; and (ii) coordination and supervision of
project activities. The official establiahment of the Coordinating
Committee would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02(b)).
4.03      Each district agricultural center chief will prepare by January
15 each year a work peogranx for the next agricultural year and submit this
program together with a detailed budget to his hierarchical superior at the
department level who would forward the proposal for final approval to the
Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator would submit the consolidated
program and budget by mid-March to the Coordinating Committee. The approved
program would be submitted to IDA for comments and approval not later than
the end of March each year. Assurances that the above principles will be
followed were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01(e)).
B.   Fungtional Literacy Training
4.04      Functional literacy training would be planned and supervised by
DAFA. The training will start on a pilot basis in ten selected villages
and, after review of results and if required, adjustments of the teaching
method and curriculum, will progressively be extended to about an
additional 340 villages. The village selection criteria will be: (i) the
willingness of the villagers to provide or to build an adequate classroom
and to equip it with simple benches; (ii) the genuine and clearly stated
interest of the population to learn to write and count; and (iii) the lack
of literacy training in the village for the last five years. The literacy
teaching material will be largely based or/and inspired from the commonly
extended agricultural/livestock/nutrition messages and would be prepared by
DAPF in close collaboration with extension supervisors and subject matter
specialists. The training material addressing specific women's interests
(nutrition, health) has been developed by UNICEF and is readily available.
To facilitate the start of the program, training will be conducted in one
language only (Djerma or Hausa, depending on the prevailing language of the
pilot 10 villages). Decision to expand the scheme to other vernacular
languages will be taken during the mid-term review. The instructors will



- 21 -
be chosen from previously literacy trained farmers/women farmers who will
receive additional training by DAFA regular staff. The literacy training
will be open to men and women, whether in joint classes or, if not
acceptable by the population, in separate classes held for each gender. The
project will finance all teaching equipment as well as allowances for
instructors and supplies to be distributed to pupils.
C.   FinAncial Management, and Renpotng
4.05      Financial management and project accounts will be the
responsibility of an accounting unit attached, as in the past to the office
of the Director of Agriculture and headed by a qualified accountant
acceptable to IDA. A consulting firm has been recruited to propose an
accounting system for the project. It would be condition of effectiveness
that the proposed system as well as staff be in place (para. 6.02(c)).
4.06      The project accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound
and internationally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to the Bank. The accounting unit will provide interim and
annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and
position of the project. An auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to
the Bank on such statements will be provided within six months of the close
of the fiscal year. The auditor's report will include a statement on the
adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls, the
reliability of statements of expenditures as a basis for loan
disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01(f)). The Nigerien
delegation has submitted to the Association for approval a short list of
auditing firms, and the appointment of an auditing firm to audit project
accounts during a period of three years will be condition of effectiveness
(para 6.02 (d)).
4.07      The project coordinator would prepare and submit to IDA six-
monthly reports highlighting progress achieved in project implementation,
issues encountered and solutions proposed. The content of the report will
evolve during project implementation with the objective of keeping the Bank
informed of the most important project parameters, without constituting an
undue burden for the project staff and without overlapping with other
documents supplied to IDA (monitoring report, budget, work program).
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01(g)).
D.   Environmental Impact
4.08      The main thrust of the work of the crop, livestock and
environmental extension services to be supported under the project will be
increasing land productivity. This will be realized primarily by improved
cultural practices and improved livestock management, i.e., low cost (often
zero cash cost) and low risk measures such as soil conservation, water
harvesting, contour planting, zero tilling, composting, alley cropping,
agro-foreetry and better integration of crops and livestock, as well as
more efficient application of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Adoption
of these measures will both increase land productivity and arrest soil
degradation. It is thus anticipated that the proposed project would be
environmentally positive.
E.   Proiect Supervision
4.09      Because of its complexity and the decentralization of
agricultural support services involved in project implementation, the
project would require during the firat two project years frequent and
intensive supervision by IDA. This would be achieved by a Bank extension
specialist who would be stationed in Niamey at the Resident Mission during
at least the first implementation year. He would be assisted at least twice



- 22 -
a year by supervision missions from Headquarters staffed as may be required
by a financial analyst, monitoring and evaluation specialist, functional
literacy specialist and extension specialist. It is expected that in the
later project years, when the local staff gains additional experience, the
need for Bank supervision will decrease and that the continuous presence of
a Bank extension specialist at the Resident Mission will not be required to
ensure successful project implementation (supervision plan is at Annex 4).
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Proiect Benefits
5.01      The project, with it. broad range of activities, should greatly
contribute to the well-being of a large number of rural families and to the
agricultural sector overall. About 46% of the rural population (330,000
families) would be reached by improved extension services. How many of
those households would choose to adopt recommended practices cannot be
estimated. More specifically, project benefits should manifest themselves
in three main areas:
(a)    production and productivity of both the crop and livestock
sectors: reorganized and strengthened extension services should
help the farming population - both men and women to increase
their production and improve their living standard;
(b)   autonomy and self-reliance: with the help of literacy programs,
farmers will be better able to manage their resources and
investments independently. Literacy programs will provide
villages with a core group of functional literates able to
manage the affairs of the village; and
(c)   human resources! the project strongly emphasizes training and
continuing education programs for farmers and government staff.
The project would greatly enhance the capabilities of staff at
all levels, strengthen research/extension links, and promote a
two-way flow of questions and answers between producers and
technicians.
B.    Justification and Affordability
5.02        It is not possible to isolate the effects of extension and
adaptive research on output and income. Adoption of technical improvements
in crop, animal and tree husbandry, water harvesting and soil conservation,
depends on many factors, of which field testing and effective dissemination
are just part. Other factors include prices of outputs and inputs
(including labor and capital), accessibility of markets and credit,
differentiation of farm enterprises by size, tenure and capitalization, and
different assessments of risk and opportunities for risk sharing. While the
causality underlying adoption is difficult to determine, "good" extension
clearly has a catalytic role to play both by adjusting technical messages
to local, even individual circumstances, but also by bringing farmers' and
others' preoccupations to the attention of researchers, bankers, tradesmen,
merchants, commodity processors as well as national policy-makers. Despite
the difficulties with causality, a recent review of studies that have been
attempted to measure the impact of agricultural extension programs on
farmer adoption and productivity concluded that extension in a number of
countries has been a high pay-off investment. 2/
2/1   Michael Baxter, Roger Slade and John Howell, "Aid and Agricultural
Extension: Evidence from the World Bank and other Donors", World



- 23 -
5.03        Good extension is therefore a necessary but not aufficient
condition for agricultural growth, and its effects cannot be conclusively
quantified. While an economic rate of return could be calculated for an
extension project, the calculation would be fraught with theoretical and
empirical difficulties, and reduction of the outcome to a single rate of
return would be spurious. A more illuminating, although still imprecise,
indicator is the increase in agricultural value added that would be
required it cover the costs of "good" extension. In Niger some additional
VEWs will have to be hired but most of the incremental cost of good
extension is the mobility and continuous in-service training of staff. This
cost is $ 2.0 million/year, or about 0.2% of agricultural value added.
Since the project would cover about 46% of the rural population, the
project's incremental costs are about 0.5% of the income of the target
population and, to break even, would have to increase the target
population's income by a similar annual increment. This increase is
eminently attainable in view of the monitored results of the first three
years' campaigns, and the long-term growth rate observed in the
agricultural sector, of 3.2%/year. on the basis of households, the project
would reach 330,000 10-person units by year 5, at a cost of about
$9/household/year (including cost of vehicles and equipment - see Annex 6).
This cost would be covered if each household were to farm 2% of its land
with improved techniques each year. The salary and benefit costs of the
existing staff for whom mobility and training would be provided under the
project amount to $1.3 million/year. If these costs are included with the
above incremental costs, the breakeven rates would increase from 0.5% to
0.9% of the income of the target population. Thus, even including the
salary and benefit costs of existing staff, the breakeven rates are readily
obtainable.
5.04        Incremental operating costs over the five-year implementation
period amount to CFAF 3.0 billion (USS 10.1 million equivalent) excluding
recurrent costs for functional literacy training or about CFAF 600 million
(USS 2.0 million equivalent) per year on average. Thio represents 6% of the
1990 agricultural sector recurrent expenditures and some 3% of 1990 total
agricultural sector expenditures. The Nigerien counterpart financing of
recurrent costs over the project period amounts to CFAF 504 million (US$
1.7 million equivalent) or about CFAF 101 million (US$ 0.35 million
equivalent) per year on average. This repreBents about 1% of 1990 recurrent
expenditures and about 0.5% of the total expenditures. Thus counterpart
funding during the project life represents a minor increment in budgetary
expenditures for the total agricultural sector. Post-project affordability
will have to be assessed in the light of the public finance situation at
that time, and of agriculture's share on total public expenditure. But also
at that time, cost savings will be possible through increasing staff:
farmer ratios, and it may be opportune to begin attempting partial cost
recovery from certain farmers' associations. There will nonetheless be
significant continuing costs to be met, to be addressed under a follow-up
project that would be the second five-year time slice of the long-term
national program to improve extension and related services.
C.    Proiect Rieks
5.05        The risks are: (a) the possible inability of extension and
research services to produce workable solutions to farmers' problems; (b)
problems of coordination between the central administration and the
departmental and district agricultural services and (c) the possible
failure of Government and/or donors to sustain the long-term commitment
required to achieve durable improvements in the effectiveness of
agricultural support services. To minimize these rieks, a three-year pilot
operation was undertaken, and the lessons learned have been built into the
Bank Technical Paper Number 87, 1989.



- 24 -
project design. Financial and management capabilities will be strengthened
and annual reviews of work plans and budgets, as well as the mid-term
implementation review, and close Bank supervision will provide adequate
number of opportunities for program review and long-term commitment
building.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        Agreements Reached
(a)   A detailed program of cooperation between INRAN and the
Directorates of Agriculture and Livestock will be submitted to
IDA for comments and approval not later than March 31 of each
year (para. 3.14);
(b)   A yearly training program would be prepared during an annual
training workshop organized well before the planting season and
would be submitted to IDA for comments and approval not later
than March 31 of each year (para. 3.17);
(c)   A yearly joint project review will be held not later than
October 30 of each year to assess project results and assess
Government's compliance with its obligations under the project.
A joint mid-term review would be held not later than October
30, 1994 (para. 3.20);
(d)   The motorcycles and mopeds for the use of supervisors, VEWs and
M&E agents would be the property of the local government which
would be responsible for the maintenance of the vehicles and
for their insurance (para. 3.22);
(e)   The yearly work-program and budget would be submitted to IDA
for comments and approval not later than March 31 each year
(para. 4.03);
(f)   The project accounts would be audited annually as discussed in
para. 4.06;
(g)   The project coordinator would prepare and submit to IDA six-
monthly reports highlighting progress achieved in project
implementation (para. 4.07).
6.02        Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   A detailed procurement plan with timetables would be submitted
to IDA for comment and approval (para. 3.29);
(b)   The establishment of a Central Coordinating Committee
(para.4.02);
(c)   The accounting and financial management system of the project
would be in place (para. 4.05);
(d)   The appointment of auditors for a period of three years (para
4.06).
6.03        RecoMMendation.  With the above assurances and conditions, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 12.9 million (US$ 18.0
million equivalent).



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Principal PRSAA Results
(Pilot Phase)
1.          The PRSAA, the pilot phase of the PSA, was launched in 1988 in the
departments of Dosso, Tahoua and Tillaberi. Table No. 1 shows the project's
geographic distribution over the period 1988-91. During the first two years,
the program worked exclusively with the agricultural extension services. In
July 1990. the livestock extension were also brought into the PRSMA, in the
districts of Doutchi, Filingue and Birni N'Konni. In November 1990, an
internal audit of PRSAA was carried out by a four-member team from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE). The lessons learned from this
audit were taken into account during preparation of the Agricultural Services
Project, and its recommendations will also be useful at the implementation
stage.
2.          Despite start-up difficulties and problems associated with
institutional and personnel changes, it has been proven that the Training and
Visit system of agricultural extension is applicable within this country's
particular context, and its results have been encouraging.
A.          Agriculture component
3.          The new approach has led to the assumptior. of greater
responsibility on the part of the extension workers, changes in the behavior
of the technical staff at all levels, and greater receptivity on the part of
the farmers, who have unanimously acknowledged the improvements obtained.
Basically, the agents' work is better organized, thanks to efficient time
management and rational planning of activities; regular contacts between the
village extension workers and the farmers, resulting in a distinct improvement
in cropping practices, particularly in the area of vegetable growing; genuine
integration of extension activities, with Madaoua district serving as an
example of integration among the various actors (government units, projects)
and Doutchi district as an example of collaboration among technical units;
tightening of links with research through researcher participation in the
training of extension agents, organization of "open houses" at the research
stations, and the recent creation of an information bulletin for researchers
and extension agents. Annexes 1-3 show the program's impact on production.
Attention is drawn to the differences in yield between demonstration plots
(DP) and control plots (CP), which, with a few exceptions, varied from 26 to
300Z in the first year.
4.          By 1990, the range had narrowed; it is interesting to note that in
that year, the yields of the adoption plots (AP) were higher overall than
those of the CPs, although they were lower in a few cases. In Dosso district,
where all AP yields are higher than those of the DPs, except for groundnuts,



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
this may be explained by the fact that, on the strength of their experience
(now being in their 3rd crop year), the farmers had acquired a greater command
of the extension messages, thanks to the fact that the methods recommended
were very simple.
5.          For vegetables and out-of-season crops, there are no statistics on
production and yields,' but it appears from the farmers' own statements that
application of the recommendations of the VEWs has enabled them to
substantially increase their yields and incomes.
B.          Livestock component
6.          Despite its recent introduction, the livestock component,
incorporating the lessons and experience gained from the experiment with
agricultural production, started up well, thanks to strict programming of the
agents' workload, regular monitoring of the district officers, and effective
supervision by the Livestock Directorate, with:
(a)         an extension program providing messages based on a traditional
analysis of stockraiser practices. Researchers participated in
the identification and formulation of these messages and should
incorporate in their programs the questions submitted to them at
the time;
(b)         training sessions on the extension messages are held regularly
before the demonstrations;
(c)         demonstration of certain messages on farm plots has already
started; (i) a method of preserving harvest residues (cowpea
tops, cereal stalks) while maintaining their nutritional value;
(ii) mangers built of mud, to ensure that the straw is more evenly
distributed and less likely to get dirty, thereby reducing
wastage; enrichment of the straw through the addition of urea;
sprinkling of salt water over the straw to make it more
appetizing. Application of the extension system to stockraising
requires the adaptation of certain basic concepts and principles
originally designed for agriculture (in particular the farm visits
timetable).
7.          One of the most important products of the pilot phase is the
development of local capabilities, thanks to exchanges of experience between
managers technical staff and agents. Nevertheless, there are still a few weak
points, such as the lack of programming of extension activities; the absence
of monitoring and evaluation (the most serious shortcoming); training
irregularities, making it hard for the agents to internalize the messages they
are to deliver; and the absence of annual targets whose &chievement would lead
1      Because vegetable harvests are staggered, monitoring of vegetable
yields becomes a highly labor-intensive task, since they have to
be checked on practically a daily basis.



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
to permanent changes. And despite some improvement in village worker
supervision and support on the part of higher officials, these aspects have on
the whole been weak. It is, moreover, necessary to improve the demonstration
methodology to ensure that demonstration continues to play its role of
convincing farmers of the validity of the recommendations made to them (by
comparing yields obtained with their normal yields), and of improving their
know-how to enable them to maximize the return on their resources.



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
Financial Performance at June 30, 1991 (CFAF)
Category           Estimated             Actual             Percentage
Training                   35,100,000           28,063,446               79.95
Investments                80,415,000           61,521,390               76.50
Operations                109,485,000           73,433,544               67.07
TOTAL                     225,000,000          163,018,000               72.45
8.          With respect to the means of transportation assigned to the
village workers, it appears that, despite commitments given
regarding maintenance (contracts signed with MAE), the local
authorities have not provided any systematic funding, so that a
large number of the vehicles are at present unused or else rapidly
deteriorating.
9.          Lastly, it has been demonstrated that, contrary to the widely held
presumptions regarding "the high cost" of the T&V system, the
additional cost is actually modest (CFAF 213, i.e. less than US$1
per ha), by comparison with the increase in income resulting from
the increase in yields in millet equivalent (CFAF 7,500, or around
US$30) 2
2      Figures based on calculations for Madaoua district.



- 29 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
REPUBLIC Of NIGER
NATIONAL AORICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
Yield In kg/he
Doeso Department
Dosso Arrondissomont
1989                       1990
CROP            DP       CP     Diff. X    DP        AP       CP      D0ff.      D1ff.
DP-CP X   AP-CP X
Millet                  639      826    .96         436      476      276     +67.6      +72.46
Miillet/Cowpos            -        -      -        M509      738      899     +27.66    +86
associated                         -      -        C184      188      106     +73.68    +77.85
cropping____
CowpsV                1l18s      465   +160.43      277      426      169     +74.21   +178.27
Oroundnuts*             460      115   .291.30    657        285      405     +37.65    -29.62
Voondzouss                -        -      -           -        -        -       -          -
0osso, agricultural district only.
sc     Doutchi agricultural district.
Boboyo Arrondiasoment
_______  1989                        190logo_        _ __ _ _
CROP            DP       CP    D0ff. X    DP         AP       CP       D1ff.     Dlff.
DP-CP X   AP-CP X
millet                  488      427    +14.28      664      376      282     .96.46    *38
Millet/Cowpes             -        -      -         619      884        _ -                -
associatod                _-              -         262      173        -       -          -
cropping             ___
Cowpeas                 888    1,204    -26.67      294      216      176    +68          28.42
Croundnuts                     -       -        -    a         _        _       _          _
Vouandzou                 _        _       _        _          -        _        a         _



- 30 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
Doutchil Arrondisemmont
________    1989                      1990
CROP           DP       CP    Dtft. X    DP        AP       CP      Diff.     Ditf.
_______ _______ __  ___ ____  __ ____  _ ______  ______ DP-CP     X  AP-CP     X
MitIlt                 809      897   +63.40    811        794     476    +70.87    .66.8
Mill-t/Cowp.a            -        -      -        648      670     468    +41        688
associated               -        -      -        290      848     815      -8       +10
cropping                                            _
Cowp.a.                829      889   +81.7       629      897     790    -20        -49.74
Sorghum                600        -      -        241        0      126     .9         -
Groundnuts.            548      181   202.78      695        0      486    +22.68      _
Vouandzou              726      546   +82.78        - |        _                       _
Doeso Dopartmont
1989                      1990
CROP           DP       CP    Diff. X    DP        AP       CP      Diff.     Diff.
DP-CP X   AP-CP X
Vlillt                 578      384   +50.62    8oo        529      845    +74        +68.33
Vouandzou              726      648   +82.78        -        -        -      -         -
Cowp.as                901      683   +31.91      400      848     87C j   +6.8.      -7.73
Oroundnuts|    499              148  +237.18      576        _      445    +29.48      -



- 31 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROGRAM
Yield In kg/he
TI I Iab6ry Department
1989                        1990
CROP           DP      CP    D1ff. %      DP         AP        CP       Diff.      Dlff.
I                             I DP-CP X   AP-CP X
Millet                 564    888    +68.28        570        849       888    .68.63      *3.25
1,672(l   1,000(1   1,010(1    +86.64       -1
Sorghum                750    690      .8.69         )          )         )_
1,100(2         -    400(2)   +176           -
Cowpsea                992    328   +204.8         719        391       308   .188.44    +27
Groundnut1 2,28   1,70  *20.90   1,017(8   1,327(8    706(a)  *44                         .88
_ _ _ _ _ _ _      ~~0     0))
(1)    TI I Iab6ry arrondiooment.
(2)    Kollo urrondissement.
(8)    Say arrondiessment.



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
Tahous D.oartm nt
Nkonnl Arrondlssement
1989 l                     1990
CROP           DP       CP    Dtff. K    DP         AP       CP       Diff.     Dlff.
DP-CP X   AP-CP X
Millet                 802      676   .39.28       8oo      408      459    .80.71    +11.64
Sorghum              1,495     s88    3056.14      784      226      469    +84.27    .50.78
Cowp.s.                111       88   +29          192      382      150    +28.0   +141.33
Oroundnuts               -        -      -       1,000      780      440   .136.81    +78
Corn   _                 _               -         320      800      185    +72.97    +62.18
Pouza Arrondios.ont
1989            _______    1990
CROP           DP       CP    Diff. X    DP        AP       CP       Ditt.     Diff.
______              DP-CP K   AP-CP X
MIllet                 549      288   .108.4      814      234      201    .58.41    +14.41
Sorghum                872      360   .88.88    843        275      228    .51.78    +21.88
Cowp*as                288      140  +105.71      413      620      252    +88.88   .106.34
Groundnuts               -        -      -        230      210      120    +91.68    +75
Madsous Arrondissoment
1989                       1990          _ _
CROP           DP       CP    01ff. X    OP        AP       CP      1Diff.  |it.
I_________________  I__ _  I______              O |   DP-CP  X  AP-CP  X
Millet                  39 s884   +61.87    322 j    281            287   .85.861       -2.65
Sorghum                 5e8     Sl1  451.84       888 i   228       218    +68.48       +4.62
Cowpse                  880 o   181   +99         192      184       150    +28         10.8I
Groundnuts             424      238   +78.16      309      23       207    .89.68    +146|



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Sumnary
CFAF                            USS                         X Total
-- - --------------------------   ----------------------- - --  X Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
A. Agric. A Lvstk. Extension
1. Central Level                 607.8    278.0    785.8          1.7      0.9      2.6         35.4      14.8
2. Dosso Department               42.5      86.2    108.7         0.1      0.2      0.4         80.9       2.0
3. Boboy. Arrondissement          77.4      80.4    157.8         0.3      0.3      0.6         60.9       3.0
4. Dosso Arrondissement           82.2      84.0    166.1         0.3      0.3      0.6         50.6       3.1
S. Doutchi Arrondissement        100.1    101.0    201.1          0.3      0.3      0.7         50.2       3.8
8. Gays Arrondissment             82.5      88.0    130.5         0.2      0.2      0.4         52.1       2.5
T. LOGA Arrondissement            47.7      60.3    107.9         0.2      0.2      0.4         65.8       2.0
8. Tahoua Department              43.8      84.8    108.2         0.1      0.2      0.4         59.7       2.0
9. Bouza Arrondissement           65.7      77.8    143.3         0.2      0.3      0.5         54.1       2.7
10. Konni Arrondissement           82.2      84.1    163.3         0.3      0.3      0.6         50.6       3.1
11. Madaoua Anrondissement         82.8      89.9    172.8         0.3      0.3      0.6         52.1       3.3
12. Tillabori Department           43.7      84.9    108.7         0.1      0.2      0.4         59.7       2.0
13. Filingue Arrondissement        93.0      94.2    187.2         0.3      0.3      0.8         S0.3       3.5
14. Kollo Arrondissement           78.8      90.8    169.4         0.3      0.3      0.6         53.s      3.2
16. Say Arrondissement             57.5      72.5    129.9         0.2      0.2      0.4         55.8      2.4
16. Tillaberi Arrondissement       54.3      69.7    124.0         0.2      0.2      0.4         58.2      2.3
17. Maradi Department              41.3      64.9    106.2         0.1      0.2      0.4         81.1       2.0
18. Guidan Roumji Arrond.          82.4      95.8    178.2         0.3      0.3      0.6         53.8      3.4
19. Madarounfa Arrondissanent      75.5      89.3    164.8         0.3      0.3      0.8         54.2      3.1
20. Aguie Arrondissement           80.6     68.2    128.8          0.2      0.2      0.4         52.9      2.4
21. Tessaoua Arrondissement        63.5      70.8    134.3         0.2      0.2      0.5         52.7      2.5
22. Zinder Department              25.3      37.8      63.2        0.1      0.1      0.2         59.9      1.2
23. Magaria Arrondissement         61.8      59.8    121.1         0.2      0.2      0.4         49.2      2.3
24. Ustameye Arrondissement        46.1      48.2      94.3        0.2      0.2      0.3         51.1      1.8
26. CU de Niamey                   S5.8      73.3    128.9         0.2      0.2      0.4         66.9      2.4
Sub-Total                          2033.8   2053.8   4087.8          6.9      8.9    13.8          50.2     77.1
B. Environment Extension            107.4    158.2    263.6          0.4      0.5      0.9         69.3      5.0
C. On-Farm Research                  19.4      14.5      33.9        0.1      0.0      0.1         42.8      0.6
D. Monitoring A Evaluation           51.5      65.8    118.3         0.2      0.2      0.4         56.5      2.2
E. Functional Literacy              280.7      74.8    355.5         0.9      0.3      1.2         21.0      8.7
F. PPF Refinancing                  222.4    222.4    444.9          0.8      0.7      1.5         60.0      8.4
Total BASELINE COSTS               2715.2   2588.8   5303.9          9.2      8.7    17.9         48.8    100.0
Physical Contingencies            83.6    133.9    197.5          0.2      0.6      0.7        87.8       3.7
Price Contingencies              137.0    244.6    381.5          0.5      0.8      1.3        84.1       7.2
------- -------                  --- ------------ ------ - ----- --~---  - ------
Total PROJECTS COSTS               2915.8   2987.0   6882.8          9.8    10.0    19.8          60.4    110.9
- - ----                      -                                                                            o----- -------- - ----- ---C)
Valuos Scaled by 1000006.0 - 1/,1/1992  10:40



REPUBLIC OF NICER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
CFAF
Dosso   Boboy.    Doss*   Ooutchl   Coy*          LOCA     Tahoum     Bouze      Konni   Iadacus
Central  Departue Arrondis  Arrondis Arrondla  Arrondis  Arrondis Departme Arrondis  Arrondis  Arrondis
Level      nt      sement    ssent   sament    aossnt    sement        at      sement    sement    sment
I. INVESTENT COSTS
A. Civil locke                          o.6       6.6      12.7      12.7       12.7       7.1       7.1      060        7.1      12.7      12.7
1. Equipment, Furniture, Met           4t.6 0      .4       1.3       1.4        1.9       1.1       a.s       0.6       1.3       1.4       1.4
C. Vehicles                            37.5      39.0      40.4      42.6       t3.0      33.8      32.1      39.0      42.6      42.6      49.1
0. Training                           198.6       2.6       6.0       6.0 f.o              0.0       6.o       2.6       6.e       6.0       0.0
E. Consultants' ServIces               84.0 e.e             e.0       6.0       6.6       e.6        6.0       0.16      6.        0.6       o.e
F. PPF Rofinancing                      06        0 .0      6.6       0.6       6.6       6.6        o.6       6.6      06.        0.0       o.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                368.7      42.0      64.4      56.7      87.6       42.0      39.9      42.0      60.8      66.7      83.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS
__________________
A. Travel expenses                    65.O       24.7      48.1      61.9      6S.7       39.7      27.6      24.7      41.4      61.9      61.9
. Office SuppIes                        1.6       1.0       0.6       0.9        1.1      0.7        0.5       0.5       5.8       6.9       0.9
C. Vehicl- O & U Costs                 73.1      40.9      64.5      66.a      86.7       48.6      39.9      40.9      60.3      66.8      66.8 .8
0. Equipment 0 k u Costs               15.5 e      .0       d.O       0.0       0.0       0.0       060        0.0       6.0       0.0       0.0
E. Salaries                           280.4       e.5       0.6       0.0       6.0       0.0        0.0       0.6       6.0       6.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 420.1      66.6    103.4    109.4       133.5      88.6       68.0      68.1      92.6     109.8     109.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                  78S.8    168.7    157.8    166.1    201.1         130.6      17. 9     108.2     143.3     188.3     172.8
Physical Contingencies               36.6       4.2       6.1       6.3       7.4       4.6        4.3       4.2       6.4       6.3       7.0
Price Contingencies                  66.3       9.4      11.3      12.0      15.7       9.7        8.7       9.2      10.6      11.9      12.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                   877.7    122.2      176.2    184.6    224.3       144.8      120.9     121.6     169.3     184.6     192.0
Taxes                                 6.0       0.0       6.0       0.0       6.0       0.6       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       60.
Foreign Exchxnge                    324.9      77.0      92.4      98.7     117.6      78.2      89.9       75.1      89.2      98.7     103.5
Values Scaled by 1500006.9 1/6/1992 10:44
fD0     X
n0



REPUBLIC OF NICER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
CFAF
Tillabor                                 Tillaber                      Uadaroun
I    Filingue    Kollo       Say         i      Mradi    Cuidan       f.       Agui-   Tessaous   Zinder    Magari
Departm.  Arrondie  Arrondis  Arrondis  Arrondis Departme   Roumji   Arrondlis  Arrondis  Arrondis  Departme  Arrondi
nt      aesmnt    sement    sement    cement       nt      Arrond.   sement    soment   sement        nt      sement
1. INVESTUENT COSTS
A. Civil Wor1 s                          6.6      12.7      12.7        7.1       7.1       .0e      12.7       12.7      12.7      12.7       0.0       21.
9. Equipment, Furniture, gat             6.6       1.8       1.5        1.1       1.0       0.6       1.4        1.3       1.3       1.3       0.8        0.
C. Veh;icls                             39.0      48.6      50.7       40.3      38.7      39.0      65.6       61.8      38.8      40.4      19.6       30.
0. Training                              2.5       6.0 6      .0       0.0        0.0       2.6       o.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        2.6       0.
E. Consultants' Services                 e.6       6.6       0.6       0.6        6.6       0.6       6.6       6.6        6.0       0.0       0.0        0.
F. PPF Refinancing                       6.e       6.e       0.6       0.6        0.6       O.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.
totol IHNESTNENT COSTS                  42.6      63.0      64.9      48.6       46.8      42.0      69.7      36         52.7      64.4      22.6       62.
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Travel expenses                      24.7      66.2      48.1      34.6       32.2      22.3      60.8      4S.6       38.0      38.2      12.4       34.    t
D. Office Suppl,es                       1.6       1.6       0.9       0.7        6.6       1.0       0.9       0.8        0.6       0.7        1.0       0.    'n
C. Vehicle 0 a U Cost*                  46.9      82.9      66.6      46.1      44.4       46.9      58.8      62.7       39.5      41.0      27.2       34. 
D. Equipment 0 I M Costs                 o.6       6.e       6.0       6.0        6.0       0.0       8.0       0.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.
E. Salaries                              6.6       6.6       0.0       0.6        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  66.6      124.1     104.6      81.4       77.2      84.1     108.5      99.0       78.1      79.9      40.6      68.
Total BASELINE COSTS                   168.7     187.2     169.4     129.9      124.0     106.2     178.2     164.8      128.8     134.3      63.2     121.
Physical Contingencies                 4.2       6.9       7.1       6.2        .60       4.2       7.6       7.2        6.9       8.1       2.3       8.
Price Contingencies                    9.3      13.4      13.6      10.6       10.6       9.3      13.3      12.3       11.7      12.2       6.1       12.
Total PROJECT COSTS                    122.2     207.6     190.1     146.7      139.1     119.7     199.1     184.3      146.6     162.8      71.6      139.
Taxes                                 0.0        6.6       0.0       0.0       o.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       6.
Foreign Exchange                      76.5     108.3     106.3      84.0      80.8       76.6     110.9     103.4       80.8      83.7      44.0       71.
Values Scaled by 1606066.6 1/6/1992 10:44
co   :3
t  ID
0



REPUBLIC OF NICER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumuary Account by Project Component
CFAF
Environ-           Uonitori
Matamey,              ent                ng A   Function    PPF
Arrondis   CU de  Extensio  On-Farm  Evaluat,    ci    Ref inanc
sement   Nianey       n    Research      on    Literacy    ing
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Work*                         16.8       7.1      6.6       6.6       6.6      34.0       0.6
B. Equipment, Furniture, Mat            0.7       0.9       2.8       0.0       7.6     86.6       6.0
C. Vehicles                            24.8      43.0     73.1       e.o      33.0       7.0       e.e
D. Training                             0.0       0.0       0.6       0.0      0.0      28.9       6.0
E. Consultants' Servicos                0.0      0.0       0..        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
F. PPF Refinancing                      0.0       0.0      0.0       o.6       0.0       6.0    444.9
Total INVESTUMENT COSTS                41.1      61.0     76.9       6.0      40.5    133.4    444.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
___________________ c-
A. Travel expenses                     26.1     33.1      108.7     13.2      39.6    122.1        6.6
B. Office Supplies                     0.4       6.6       1.6       0.0       6.1      73.9       o.6
C. Vehicle 0 A U Costs                27.6      44.1      77.5      20.7      33.6      12.4       6.6
D. Equipment 0 A M Costs               o.6        6.6      o.e       6.o       6.0      13.8       0.0
E. Salaries                             6.6       6.6      0.0       6.6       6.6       0.0       0.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 63.2      77.9    187.8       33.9      77.8    222.1        0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                  94.3    128.9    283.6        33.9    118.3    35.6    444.9
Physical Contingencies                4.9      5.6       7.6       0.0       4.1      15.0       6.6
Price Contingencies                   9.7     10.1      20.6       2.5       8.9      36.4       6.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                   168.9    144.4    291.2       36.4    131.2    400.9    444.9
Taxes                                0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.6
Foreign Exchang-                     67.8     85.0    177.6       16.0      78.7      86.6    222.4
Values Scaled by 100006O.0 1/6/1992 10:44
(DX
0
os s
Fh-



REPUBI-C OF NICER
ACRICUt rAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumar, Account by Project Component
CFAF
Physical         Prico
Contingencies    Contingenc;is
Total       X     Amount      X  Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                        262.9      15.0      37.9    3.8       9.5
8. Equipment, Furniture, Mat          148.4      1060      14.8    6.8       1060
C. Vehicles                          1126.2      1060     112.5    9.9    111.6
D. Training                           237.9      1060      23.8     8.6      20.6
E. Consultants' Services               84.0      10.0       8.4     6.4      4.6
F. PPF Refinancing                    444.9       0.0     060    0.6        060
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               2293.3       8.6    197.6    6.8    156.2
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                        i
A. Travol expenses                   1268.7      0.0       0.0    5.9       73.8
B. Office Supplios                     96.0       0.0      0.0   10.6       16.1
C. Vehicle 0 A M Costs               1341.7      0.0        0.0    9.1    122.0
D. Equipment 0 A M Costs               33.8      0.0       6.0    9.6        3.2
E. Salaries                           280.4      6.0        0.6    6.8      16.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                3010.8      0.0       0.0    7.5    225.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                 6303.9       3.7    197.6    7.2    381.6
Physical Contingencios              197.6
Price Contingencies                 301.6       3.8     14.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  6882.8      3.6    2X2.1    6.6    381.5
Taxes                                6.0        0.0      6.0
Foreign Exchange                  2967.0       4.9    145.8
Values Scaled by 1666666.6 1/6/1992 10:44
0
e  3 



REPUBLIC OF NICER
ACRICULT *AL SERVICES PROJECT
CFAF
Sumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                               Foreign Exchange
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    Total          X   Amount
I. INVESTUENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                    146.4      41.6     41.0      13.0      11.0    262.9       28.7   72.5
9. Equipment. Furniture, got       53.6      26.9      17.3     28.3      23.4    148.4       61.0   90.6
C.  Vehicles                      406.6    143.3      68.1    272.6    236.3   1126.2         90.0 1612.7
0.  Training                       46.1      47.0      48.7     48.7      47.4    237.9        52.2  124.3
E.  Consultants' Services          20.0      16.6      16.0     16.6      16.6     84.0        2.9    2.4
F. PPF R-finencing                444.9       0.0      0    -0  .O6       s.e    444e9        560 0222=4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            1116.9    273.7    191.1    378.6    334.1   2293.3         66.6 1624.9
11. RECURRENT COSTS
___________________
G.  Travel expenses                179.0    225.7    269.7    282.7    311.6   1268.7          4.1   61.2                             w
H. Office Supplies                  4.7       9.7      18.9     27.8     34.9      98.0       54.6   62.4                            x
I.  Vehicle 0 A U Costs           228.0    264.8    282.7    288.1    288.1   1341.7          70.0  939.2
J.  Equipment 0 & M Costs           4.2       6.0      6.7       8.3      9.6      33.8       61.8   20.9
K.  Salaries                       31.1      60.0     86.4      66.4     66.4    280.4         0.0    0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS             447.      646.2    634-.4    673.4    710.6   3010.6        35.3 1083.8
Total BASELINE COSTS             1662.9    818.9    825.4   1651.8   1044.7   6303.9          48.8 2688.8
Physical Contingencies          74.4      29.6     21.2      38.6     34.0    197.6        67.8  133.9
Price Contingencies              18.7     37.3     69.7    117.3    148.5    381.5         84.1  244.6
Total PROJECT COSTS              1656.1    885.7    986.3   1207.6   1227.1   6882.8          60.4 2987.0
Taxes                            6.6       6.6      6.0       0.0      6.6       0..        0.0 6    .8
Foreign Exchange               950.7    425.2    369.2    622.1    599.8   2967.0         100.0 2987.0
______________________--___- - __________-- ____-___________-_---_____-_-___________________________________________
Values Scaled by 16660.0  1/6/1992 16:44
OQ a :>
tD  X
0I,



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sumary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                       Totals Including Contingencies
CFAF                                                  uss
92j93  93/94   94/95   95/96   98/97   Total       92/93   93/94   94/9t   96/96  96/97   Totel
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                     170.6    49.6    50.1    16.1    13.9   300.4         0.6     0.2     0.2     0.1     0.0    1.0
B. Equipment, Furniture, gat        69.9   30.0   20.3    34.3    28.7  173.2            0.2     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.6
C. Vehicles                        463.8   166.5    82.1   340.6   308.4  1349.3         1.5     0.6    0.3      1.1     1.0    4.6
D. Training                         61.4    64.8    67.7    69.4    69.6   282.2         0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2     1.0
E. Consultants' Services            22.2    18.1    18.5    18.9    19.2    97.0         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.3
F. PPF Rofinancing                 444.9    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0  444.9          1.6     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    1.6
… _____________ -…_ _  - - - - -- - - -- - --____    -------------------------------------------- - ---
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            1202.9  318.3   228.6   489.3   427.8  2847.0          4.1     1.1     0.8     1.6     1.4     8.9
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
___________________
A. Travel expenses                 180.8   232.8   273.6   303.8   341.6  1332.5        0.6      0.8     0.9     1.0     1.2    4.5
B. Office Supplies                   4.8    10.1    20.4    30.8    39.9   106.0        0.0      0.0    0.1      0.1     0.1     0.4
C. Vehiclo 0 a U Costs             231.8   267.7   306.9   323.3   334.1  1463.8        0.8      0.9     1.0     1.1     1.1     4.9
0. Equipment 0 A U Costs             4.2     6.2     7.2     9.3    11.1    37.0         0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.1
E. Salaries                         31.6    51.6    69.8    71.2    72.6   296.6        0.1      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2     1.0
-…               …    …    …    …    …    … ____________________-- ___________-----  -------------------------------------------------
Total RECURRENT COSTS              453.2   567.4   677.7   738.3   799.3  3235.9         1.6     1.9     2.3     2.5     2.7    10.9
_     G_=…  ==_=__--===_-                        -=====… =--======__…_= _
Total PROJECT COSTS               1668.1   885.7   908.3  1207.6  1227.1  5882.8         5.6     3.0     3.1     4.1     4.1    19.8
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 1/6/1992 10:44
~ I 
b



REPUBUC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Suumary Accounts Cost Sumary
CFAF                            US3                          % Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------  X Foreign      Base
Local  Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange       Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
__________________
A. Civil Works                      180.4      72.6    252.9         0.C      6.2      6.9         28.7       4.8
8. Equipment, Furniture, Nat         67.8      90.6    148.4         0.2      0.3      0.6         61.0       2.8
C. Vehicles                         112.6   1012.7    1125.2         0.4      3.4      3.8         90.0      21.2
D. Training                         113.6    124.3    237.9          6.4      6.4      6.8         52.2       4.S
E. Consultants' Services             81.6       2.4     84.0         0.3      6.6      0.3          2.9       1.8
F. PPF Refinancing                  222.4    222.4     444.9         0.8      0.7      1.6         66.6       8.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              768.4   1624.9   2293.3          2.6      6.1      7.7         68.5      43.2
- -------- - -------------- - -    --------- -       - - -          _ -_____________-- -------
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Travel expenses                 1207.4     61.2   1268.7          4.1      0.2      4.2          4.1      23.7
B. Office Supplies                   43.6     62.4      95.0         0.1      0.2      0.3         54.6       1.8
C. Vehicle 0 A M Costs              402.6    939.2    1341.7         1.4      3.2      4.6         70.0      25.3
D. Equipment 0 A M Costs             12.9     20.9      33.8         0.0      0.1      0.1         61.8       0.6
E. Salaries                         280.4      0.6    280.4          0.9      0.0      0.9          0.0       5.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1946.8   1063.8   3616.6          6.6      3.6     16.2         36.3      66.8
Total BASELINE COSTS              2716.2   2688.6    6303.9          9.2      8.7     17.9         48.8    100.0
Physical Contingencies            63.6    133.9    197.6          0.2      0.5      0.7         67.8       3.7
Price Contingencies              137.0    244.5    381.6          0.5      0.8      1.3         84.1       7.2
- ____-__ IC ___               __----_________-___-____________________
Total PROJECTS COSTS               2915.8   2987.0   6882.8          9.8    10.0    19.8           60.4     110.9
…----…-                                                                               …    -…~~~--- ----
Values Scaled by 160006.6 -  1/6/1992  10:44
OQ cr 
9DX
0
I-tb
I-



-41-                              Annex
MAI
AGRICUL 1RL SERVICES PROJECT
Key Indicators I/
Activity/obiective             Indicator          At Project       At Project       Situation During
Sta,rt       1Comletion        Supervision Mission
Feb. 92
Program Inputs
Fielding of extension staff:
- VEW (field extension staff)    no.               315              410
- Supervisors                 no.                   60               66
- SMS/TS                     no.                    12               20
Vehicles                     no.                    2                20
Motorcycles                  no.                    5                66
Mopeds                        no.                   35               410
Actual recurrent expenditures
per VEW per year for mobility
and training                FCFA                  N.A.             630,000
Program Delivery
In service training of
- VEW                        adequate/inadeq.     inadeq.
- SMS                        adequate/inadeq.     inadeq.
(periodicity & regularity)
Extension trial plots        no.                  30                250
No. of contact farmers/groups   no.                  2,200             8,000
No. of farmers in contact
groups (men, women)          no.                   30,000           120,000
Periodicity of farm
visits and regularity
- VEW                       adequate/inadeq.
- Supervisors               adequate/inadeq.
* SMS                      adequate/inadeq.
Extent of mass media use      adequate/inadeq.
Program Imnpact
No. of farmers testing
improved technologies
on micro-plots (men/women)    no.                  2,200             16,000
Development of new
extension messages per season    no.                                  2-4
Surveys by Monitoring Unit    no./dates                                I per year
on adoption and diffusion
Geographic Coverage          no. of villages       768              6,100
Program Review and Reporting
Annual program                date
and budget                    (yes/no)
IDA Supervision               date
(yes/no)
Annual extemal                date
audit                        (yes/no)
I/Intermediate finalized after submission of work plan and supervision.



42 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the Table below is in addition to day-to-day supervision
during the first project year provided by a Bank extension specialist
stationed in Niamey, and in addition to regular supervision needs for
the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated to require two staff weeks during the first project year
(when permanent Bank staff is stationed in Niamey) and three staff weeks
during the following three project years.
2.    Borrowerls Contribution to Supervision.
(a)   Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)   They should cover all parameters of the project
execution (villages covered, approximate number of
beneficiaries, training, field trials, number of
functional literacy classes and number of
participants, messages extended and current Lsues
with proposals how to solve them);
(ii)  At the end of May and November of each year;
(iii) by the Project Coordinator of the National Directorate
of Agriculture who will coordinate report preparation
by the departmental and district agricultural and
livestock services.
(b)   Project monitoring will be the responsibility of the
Monitoring Unit at the Directorate of Agriculture and Livestock which
will supervise the implementation of the monitoring activities at all
implementation levels. Description of the activities of the Unit will
be part of the Progress Report.
(c)   Each agricultural district service would prepare by February
each year a work program for the next agricultural season and submit
thie program together with a detailed budget for discussion and approval
to the Project Coordinator and the Director of Agriculture. The Project
Coordinator under the authority of the Director of Agriculture will,
after discussion with the implementing district eervices and needed
adjustments, submit the program by mid-March to the Coordinating
Committee for final approval. The approved consolidated work program
and budget would be submitted to IDA for comments and approval not later
than the end of March each year. By the end of June of each year, the
Director of Agriculture would submit to IDA the audited project accounts
for the previoue calendar year.
(d)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival will be chaired by the
Assistant Director of Agriculture who is presently the project
coordinator; wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture or his delegate.



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Actiyities
Approximate                                 Expected Skill      Staff Inputs
Dates           Activity                 Reciuirements       istaff weekes
9-10/92    SuRervision MisBion            Extension Monitoring )
(Start-up of Project)          Financial Analyst    )    6.0
4/93       Review of Work Plans           Extension              )
and budget                     Financial Analyst    )    1.0
4/93       Review of monitoring           Monitoring                  0.5
program
4/93       Review of training program    Training                     0.5
3-4/93     Sunervision Mission            Extension              )
(to review implementation      Financial Analyst    )    4.0
after first 6 months)
9/93       Supervision Mission            Extension                   2.0
(to review implementation)
3/94       Suvervision Mission            Extension              )
(to review implementation)    Training               )    4.0
Financial Analyst    )
4/94       Review Work Plan               Extension              )
Budget                         Financial Analyst    )    1.5
Audit, Monitoring              Monitoring            )
7/94       Mid-Term Review                Extension             )
(to review implementation      Monitoring            )
after 2 years and to          Training              )    8.0
recommend corrective          Financial Analyst    )
action if required)           Agriculture           )
Livestock
Environment           )
1995-96    Yearly two Supervision         Extension             )
Mission and in-house           Monitoring            )
reviews of work-plan,          Training              )    16.0
budget, financial              Agriculture           )
management, etc.               Financial Analyst    )
SPNannex.ear



- 44 -                            Annex 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year/                   Disbursement              Disbursement
Semester                  Semester   Cumulative                 Z
FY 93
December 31, 1992 1/            2.5 8         2.5                 14
June 30, 1993                   2.0           4.5                 25
FY 94
December 31, 1993               1.5           6.0                 33
June 30, 1994                   1.5           7.5                 42
FY 95
December 31, 1994               1.5           9.0                 50
June 30, 1995                   1.5          10.5                 58
FY 96
December 31, 1995               1.8          12.3                 68
June 30, 1996                   1.8          14.1                 78
FY 97
December 31, 1996               1.6          15.7                 87
June 30, 1997                   1.6          17.3                 96
FY 98
December 31, 1997               0.4          17.7                 98
June 30, 1998                   0.3          18.0                100
1/ Expected date of Board presentation: April 1992.
Expected date of credit effectivenesss September 1992.
Expected closing date: June 30, 1998.
2/ Includes refinancing of PPF (US$ 1.5 million) and initial deposit into
Special Account (US$ 1.0 million).



- 45 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Costs and Benefits
1.    Current Costs.  In the Nigerien public institutions charged with
responsibilities for extension, there are about 1,000 staff engaged in
technology dissemination. The total cost of this staff, at an average
salary and benefit cost of $2,000, is $2 million/year. Most of this
staff receive little or no funds for mobility, training and other
operating costs. Exceptions are to be found in some donor-financed
projects.
2.    Incremental Costs.  Inspection of project cost tables shows that
incremental recurrent costs of extension will be $10.1 million over the
five years, or an annual average of $2.0 million. The cost of vehicle
and equipment acquisition is $4.3 million, with an average useful life
of (say) four years. Thus the annual incremental costs, including
vehicle and equipment replacement, will be about $3.0 million. These
costs suffice to render effective 650 field staff (para. 3.07).
Incremental cost per field staff averages $4,600 or about double the
salary and benefit costs. Since the non-personnel cost of good, i.e.
mobile and continuously-trained staff, is so large, these expenditures
will have to be carefully managed and monitored, whereby best practices
can be identified and transferred to other areas and agencies.
3.   Aggregate Breakeven Benefits.  Any aggregate approach is subject
to undue simplicity, and averaging over diverse local circumstances.
Despite these limitations, an aggregate approach yields an order of
magnitude for breakeven benefits that can be a useful, albeit imprecise,
indicator of plausibility. Thus, with (i) a total rural population of
6.7 million, and (ii) rural GDP/head of $120, project incremental costs
are about 0.1% of the rural GDP. Since the project will only cover 462
of the rural population, the project incremental costs are about 0.8Z of
the GDP of the target population. To break even, the project must
increase this target population's income by 0.8Z per year. This modest
increase seems eminently attainable when compared with long-term growth
of rural income, i.e. 3%/year, or with the productivity increases
observed, albeit on small plots, in the pilot operations (Annex 1). If
staff salary and benefit costs are also included, total annual cost
would increase by $1.3 million to $4.3 million/year, or 0.52 of the
rural GDP, or 1.21 of the GDP of the target population. Income
increases of this magnitude also seem attainable.
4.    Breakeven Benefits at the Farm Enterprise Level.  As above, any
attempt to average over diverse local circumstances will conceal the
heterogeneity of local conditions and thereby provide a possibly
misleading indication of median incomes. Nonetheless, an average



- 46 -
Annex 6
P ge 2 of 2
approach to break-even enterprise benefits yields a useful order-of-
magnitude indicator of plausibility. Thuss
Rural population                          (million)  6.6
No. of Farm Enterprises                   (million)  0.67  a/
No. of Target Farm Enterprises (TFE)    (million)  0.33  b/
Incremental Cost per TFE                  ($/year)       9
Rural GDP per Farm Enterprise             ($/year)   1200
Size of Farm Enterprise                   (ha)            6 c/
Value Added per ha (incl. livestock)    (S/year)    200
Increase in Enterprise Value Added
from one 0.2 ha test plot:  low         ($/year)      10 d/
high       ($/year)     20 e/
a/ Assuming 10 people per enterprise;
b/ 46? coverage;
c/ Simplifying assumption: higher with animal traction, lower without;
d/ Low is 25Z increase in value added; this is slightly more than the
incremental cost per Target Farm Enterprise (line 4);
!/ High is 50Z increase in value added, or more than double line 4.
These breakeven benefits show that the incremental cost ($9/year) is
easily covered if the Target Farm Enterprises put in an additional 0.2
ha test plot each year. Clearly, some enterprises will rapidly expand
the test plot to most or all of their area. i.e. full adoption. Equally
clearly, some enterprises will not put in any test plots, because they
have no labor, no manure, no traction capacity, no access to credit or
inputs, no security of tenure, nor means for risk-sharing. The median
outcome is indeed uncertain, and subject to different factor endowments
of different enterprises, but it suffices that 0.12 ha out of the 6 ha
farm (or 2Z) is farmed with test plot techniques each year to cover the
incremental costs (or 1Z in the high case). If staff salary and benefit
costs are also included, total cost per Target Farm Enterprise would be
$18/year, and it would suffice that 3Z ef the land is put to test plots
each year to cover the full cost (or 1.52 in the high case).
5.    The uncertainties underscore the need for careful monitoring of
benefits - not only the number of test plots (and new tests), but also
the rate of expansion (or true "adoption") of the techniques tried out
on the test plots. Costs must also be carefully managed and monitored
so that best practices can be identified and transferred to other areas
and agencies. It will be by working on both the benefit and cost sides
of the breakeven calculation that the net benefit will be maximized.



- 47 -
Annex 7
NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Detailed Cost Tables.
2.   Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole - Avant Projet pour la
Premiere Phase.
3.   Rapport d'Evaluation Interne du Programme de Renforcement des
Services d'Appui & l'Agriculture (PRSAA).
4.   Annuaire des Statistiques de l'Agriculture 1989.
5.   Miscellaneous Working Papers.



- 48 -
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Timetable of Project Implementation
YrO               Yr I               Y_2           Yr 34              Yr5
ARRONDISSEMEVNrs _lot 6x    2nd 6m    let 6m    2nd 6.     l-t 6.    2nd 6m  _
ot 6m   2nd 6 m
BOBOYE            E _ _
DOSSO                                           . . . . _  = _  _ _
DOUTCHI                           - _  .                  .    .
GAYA                           *
LOGA               _        _                   .... ___    _    _  .  _               -  - _
BOLZA
KON'NI                        - .    ' .  .                           .
NLADAOWA'..|...... __.__        
FILINGUE                                           .                     .             _
KOLLO              -.  _____
oN\:~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .  .. ,                                          - .._    
SAY~*  
TILLUBERY
AG_t                                                 -  -      -   .   _   *       -  -       -
AGE'IE .. . ..
G.,ROCIDJI                                                          - . . .
%LkGARIA                     .                                                           .
~~~~~~~~~~~.._  .__ ,_ __ _ __ _ __ __  __  =-1__ ____
C.U. NAMEY.   .                                              
Preparatory Phase                                                ImplIementati on Phase
.Agriculture and Livestock                      ___ Agriculture- - - _
^ricuture  nd Liout…Liveslultur
NO:    For the environmontal *xtension componont the impleentation timetable will be
finalizod at the end of Yrl.



ALGEMA              Utf-                                                                                                                               LIBYA
Th -v bcs 5eni,popmd by
The1 Word &rYs   uJ 
a .d s evfy  fo, th%
CHAD         '~~~ vf The WcId eanfk
CKAD   = opdoeot
tl.u of TheWWddRo,W Da ,p.
_f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l be rctmn    
? 4 ,o m ft                 sfofrsc   u e M  n tferlo n
S   iv    )  s                                                                                 _t edorceSoovedmie
Gv!~~~~~~~~~'fc'G 'of Ct ft.M 
NIGER
AGRICULTURE SERVICES PROJECT                                                                                              t
~~ tt          A.RRfONDIENI3LWEDUNDf>CENTI LTLtOI?N/
2v          A=NV63&A9MAWMO~U~N0EROC704F2F2
-  -  OwlNVWEDUTso3T¢ENrfgolECr                  /                  AR;fT                ,AGADEZ         I
PAV WADS
o       Sa1C1s10WN3                                                              
o        OE;'WT CADLS                                    /                                                        I                  _
*        MNAIONAL NAC CI
- -    N-SSiN ENTBQLJJT0UNUA1 Ah1ADL
DVIA SENTOUNMlAOEa
WKNAfJO   BOUN IAC                                                                                                                                                 I6
)                                  \          w                               /                               ~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIFFA  
tAE    o ------sM                                 TAHOUA               /                            
MAL                               -WJ9 T3AMMD;EMk    
I NIAV^EY         rv         ~      ~                                                   ZINDER      OV             T       NGGI         /CHADf
5; 1    - "  "' %" r   of  >   T>OUA    %sXD°kUrt/Ag,§0S@            t                       _    /      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ng.igmi 
BURKINA                     t         oogi              
3  r FASCOS                                                                          N 1I G E R I A                                                               n 9,-c
Z            _    ~~~~~~~BENIN                                                                                                               CAME*ROON                            I6'_ 



