Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2355 NIR
                  (Agricultural Services Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 12, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2355 NIR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Deve-
lopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
Page  2
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Coordinating Committee" means the committee referred to
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (b)   "INRAN" means Institut National de Recherches
Agronomiques du Niger;
      (c)   "MAE/C" means Ministcre des Affaires Etrangcres et de la
Cooperation;
      (d)   "MAG/EL" means Ministcre de l'Agriculture et de
l'Elevage;
      (e)   "MEF"  means Ministcre de l'Economie et des Finances;
      (f)   "MEN/R"  means Ministcre de l'Education Nationale et de
la Recherche;
      (g)   "MH/E"  means Ministcre de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Environnement;
      (h)   "Project Coordinator" means the official appointed as
such under the Project;
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a first exchange of letters, dated October 30, 1987 and
November 17, 1987, and to a second exchange of letters, dated
December 23, 1991 and January 2, 1992, between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (j)   "SMS" means subject matter specialist;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (l)   "VEW" means village extension worker.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
Page  3
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2002 and ending April 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Page  4
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through MAG/EL and MH/E, Parts B and C of the Project through
MAG/EL, MH/E and MEN/R, and Part D of the Project through MEN/R,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that all motorcycles
and mopeds purchased under the Project for use by supervisors, VEWs
and Monitoring & Evaluation agents shall be assigned to the
appropriate local government, which shall thereafter be required to
assume responsibility for the maintenance of such vehicles and for
their insurance.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish a coordinating
committee, consisting of the Project Coordinator and representatives
of each of the following Directorates, and of INRAN, to be
responsible for the review and approval of the work program and
annual budget, and for the overall coordination and supervision of
the Project:
      MAG/EL:      (i)   Agriculture,
                  (ii)   Plant Protection,
                 (iii)   Livestock,
                  (iv)   Studies and Programming,
      MH/E:        (v)   Environment,
      MEF:        (vi)   Programs and Plan,
                 (vii)   Public Debt,
      MEN/R:    (viii)   Functional Literacy,
      MAE/C:      (ix)   International Organizations and Confe-
                         rence.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Page  5
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that the said accounts and records shall
                   be audited on a semiannual basis by said
                   auditors, who shall prepare audit reports
                   accordingly and furnish them to the Association,
                   not later than three (3) months after the end of
                   such semiannual audit period, along with an
                   opinion as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such period,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Coordinating Committee has been duly established.
      (b)   The Borrower has prepared and submitted to the
Page  6
Association, for comments and approval, a detailed procurement plan,
including an indicative timetable, of all procurement actions
envisaged under the Project.
      (c)   The auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement have been recruited for a three-year period, and an
accounting and financial management system capable of meeting the
requirements of the said Section has been duly established.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre de l'Economie et des Finances
            B.P. 862
            Niamey
            Niger
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINIPLAN                  5463 NI
                   Niamey
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER
                         By /s/ Adani Illo
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Page  7
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 570,000        100%
     (excluding
     construction
     of functional
     literacy
     centers)
(2)  Vehicles,                 3,060,000        100%
     equipment,
     materials and
     furniture
(3)  Consultants'                210,000        100%
     services
(4)  Training                    640,000        100%
(5)  Operating costs           6,050,000        100%
(6)  Refunding of              1,070,000        Amount due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               1,300,000
         TOTAL                12,900,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means the incremental costs arising under the Project on account of
salaries of local contractual staff, travel allowances, office
supplies and equipment, vehicles and fuel; excluding, however, all
expenditures incurred in connection with the maintenance and
insurance of the motorcycles and mopeds referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the incomes of
the rural population and to diminish rural poverty, by improving the
effectiveness of agricultural and livestock extension, improving the
linkage between research and extension, and providing support to
village populations through functional literacy and numeracy
training.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
Page  8
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural, Livestock and Environment Protection
            Extension Services
1.    Consolidating the extension activities started under the pilot
project in three departments and extending them progressively to two
additional departments and the urban district of Niamey.
2.    Review of the organization of extension services, with
particular emphasis on the need for adequate human and physical
resources, at the farm, regional and national levels.
3.    Strengthening of relations between crop, livestock, and
environment services so as to ensure effective extension support not
only for agriculture, but for livestock and environmental protection
as well.
Part B:     Training
      Regular and continuous training of extension staff at all
levels by means of fortnightly, monthly and annual training
sessions, including training courses held outside Niger or conducted
by external participants.
Part C:     Linkage between Research and Extension
      Strengthening of the linkages between extension and national
and regional agricultural research in order to find solutions to
farmers' problems; giving priority under the adaptive research
programs, as agreed upon between INRAN and the Directorates of
Agriculture, Livestock and Environment, to technical problems, such
as those related to soil and water conservation, diversification of
production through cropping systems adapted to particular ecological
zones and to the environment, soil fertility, and ecologically
adapted varieties.
Part D:     Functional Literacy
      Functional literacy and numeracy training for both men and
women, including stepped-up promotion of participation by women to
enable them to play a more active role in rural development and to
assume a progressively greater role in village activities and
management.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
Page  9
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Niger may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, as well as civil works for an aggregate amount not
exceeding $900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided, however, that
(a) no preference shall be allowed in favor of local contractors and
suppliers; (b) foreign bidders shall be given an opportunity to
participate in the bidding process; (c) all evaluation criteria
shall be specified in quantitative terms in the bidding documents;
(d) the time period allowed for bid preparation shall not be less
than 30 days; and (e) no contract shall be negotiated without the
prior approval of the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$30,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Contracts for the purchase of functional literacy texts may be
awarded after direct negotiations with the supplier, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods, works and
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
Page  10
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
October 31, 1993 and, thereafter, not later than October 31 of each
subsequent year, undertake a joint review of the Project or, as the
case may be, not later than October 31, 1994, a mid-term review,
during which they shall exchange views on all matters relating to
the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of
all its obligations under this Agreement, including, in particular,
any commitment made by the Borrower, pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, to make adequate annual budgetary allocations, and
provide the staffing requirements and other facilities, needed for
the proper implementation of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and on all other related
matters due to be addressed during such review.
      (c)   Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to
act promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the imple-
mentation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may
have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review,
semiannual reports on the progress of the Project, including
detailed information on the progress of procurement actions under
the Project and, if need be, on matters arising out of the preceding
annual or mid-term review, as the case may be.
3.    The Borrower shall cause the competent authorities in each
district that is affected by the Project to prepare and submit, not
later than January 15 of each year, a work program together with a
detailed budget for the agricultural year next following, for
consideration by the Project Coordinator, who shall be required, on
the basis of each such submission, to submit, not later than March
15 of each year, a consolidated program and budget to the
Coordinating Committee, for its approval.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that a cooperation program shall be
agreed upon annually between INRAN and the Directorates of
Agriculture, Livestock and Environment, in order to define INRAN's
role in the planning and supervision of research trials, in the
training of extension staff and, more generally, in current
proposals to strengthen the linkages between research and extension.
5.    The Borrower shall ensure that a training workshop shall be
organized annually and prior to the commencement of the planting
season, during which the yearly training programs for the training
of VEWs and SMSs shall be discussed and agreed upon.
6.    The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year,
submit to the Association, for comments and approval: (a) the
consolidated program and budget, referred to in paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, as approved by the Coordinating Committee for the current
year; (b) the cooperation program referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule for the current year; and (c) the training program referred
to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the current year.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  11
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
Page  12
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
      (b)   "local currency" means the currency of the Recipient;
and
      (c)   "Starting Date" means the date from which the periods
specified for the submission of reports are measured, as set forth
in the Time Schedule included in Appendix A hereto, and after which
the Consultants may receive payments hereunder subject to the
effectiveness hereof. Unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
Bank and the Consultants, the Starting Date shall be the thirtieth
day following the date of effectiveness of this Contract.
