Dome_t of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6705
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LE SOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM PROJECT
(CREDIT 795-LSO)
April 2, 1987
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Bag                                   90.74 kg
1 Kilogram                        -      2.204 lb
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton (mt)            0.98 long ton
1 Meter (km)                      =      1.09 yards
1 Millimeter (mm)                 -     0.309 inch (in)
1 Kilometer (km)                  -     0.62 mile (mi)
I Acre (ac)                       m     0.405 hectare (ha)
1 Sesoto Acre                           0.222 acre (ac)
1 Kg/ac                                 2.204 lb/ac
ABBREVIATIONS
BASP   -  Basic Agricultural Services Program
FED    -  European Development Fund
GOL    -  Government of Lesotho
GTZ    -  Deutsche Gessellschaft Fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) GmbH
KFW    -  Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiederaufbau
LADB   -  Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
ODA    -  Overseas Development Assistance (U.K.)
PMC    -  Produce Marketing Corporation
RSA    -  Republic of South Africa
UNDP   -  United Nations Developmert Program
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Oko. i OItKtw.e.lwd
Op".tsM* Ivawat,om
April 2, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Lesotho Basic Agricultural
Services Program Project (Credit 795-LSO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Lesotho Basic Agricultural Services Program Project
(Credit 795-LSO)' prepared by the Government of Lesotho, with an overview
memorandum prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a rtcurcted distibutin and may be uwed by dipintB only in tho efoimance
Of their offlcia duties. Its contents may not otherwbe be dWclosd without Wodd km autbbiu



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM PROJECT
(CREDIT 795-LSO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ....................   ..................................             i
Basic Data Sheet ..................   .                                      ii
Highlights ......................................                            iv
IDA OVERVIEW OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Io  Introduction         I...................................* .          1
II.  Contrasts Between Appraisal and Implementation  o.......               2
III. Differing Perceptions of the Bank, Co-Donors
and Borrower .0         ..... .............................       5
IV.  Conclusions         ...........................................       6
COMPLETION REPORT (Prepared by Ministry of Agriculture, Lesotho)
I.  Introduction               I........................                   1
II.  Project Identification and Preparation           ................      1
III.  Project Implementation ....*..........................                 4
IV.  Project Impact ............. ....                                     8
V.  Economic Rate of Return           ...............................     11
VI.  Special Issues                         ................   .           11
VII.  Conclusion .............................                              13



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM PROJECT
(CREDIT 795-LSO)
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Basic Agricul-
tural Services Program Project (BASP) for which Credit 795-LSO for
US$6.0 million was made by IDA in May 1978. The Credit was closed March
31, 1985, the original closing date, but disbursements were permitted until
December 6, 1985, at which time the undisbursed portion of US$2.077 million
was cancelled.
The project was co-financed by the United Kingdom
(US$3.9 million), the European Economic Comunity (US$3.8 million), and
Germany (through GTZ and KFW, $4.7 million) totalling US$18.4 million
including the IDA Credit. Total project cost was estimated at
US$26.4 million. Including IDA, the co-donors together are estimated to
have disbursed only about US$6.7 million or 54% of their financing,
reflecting the fact that only some of the planned infrastructure and
technical assistance activities were carried out. Independently, a farming
research program was funded by USAID.
The PCR package consists of a PCR prepared by the Borrower and
supplementing it, a Project Performance Overview Memorandum prepared by the
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department. The Borrower's PCR is
generally objective, but in some respects differs in perception from that
of the Bank. The Overview Memorandum is based on the Borrower's PCR, the
Appraisal Report, the Presideat's Report, the Credit Agreement and the
supervision reports. It also reflects the comments of Bank staff who were
associated with the project.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower and cofinanciers on
January 28, 1987 for their comments. However, no comments have been
received.



- it -
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM PROJECT
(Credit 795-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Actual         Actual as X
Appraisal      or Estimated*       of Appraisal
Item                                            Exetatio             Actual            Estimates
Total Project Cost                                 26.4               15.0*               57%*
Credit Amount                                       6.0                6.0
Amount Disbursed                                                       3.9 1/             65%
Amount Cancelled                                                       2.l T/             35X
Date Physical Component Completed                                     1982
Proportion Completed by Above Date                                     60%
Economic Rate of Return                             12%              negative
Institutional Performance                                         unsatisfactory
Other Project Data                               Original
First Mention in Bank Files                                           5/75
Negotiations                                                          3/78
Board Approval                                     4/78              4/27/78
Date of Credit Agreement                           5/78              5/25/78
Date of Effectiveness                              8/78              8/3/78
Closing Date                                     3131/85             3/31/85
Borrower: Kingdom of Lesotho
Executing Agency: Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borrower: April 1 - March 31
Follow on Project: None
Cumulative Disbursements (US$ millions)
1979     1980     1981      1982      1983     1984     1985
Appraisal Estimates                  0.4       1.0      2.4       3.8       5.2      6.0      6.0
Actual                               0.2       1.8      2.3       2.8       3.2      3.6      3.9
Actual as x of Estimates             50      180       93        74       61        60       65
1/ Date of Final Disbursement, October 12, 1985
2/  Date of Cancellation from Credit, October 12, 1985



- iii -
Mission    Date of      Duration     Number of Staff                   Project
Origin     Mission        Weeks       Specialization      Man Weeks    Rating
Appraisal              HQ        11/77
Supervision 1           N I/      9/78           1           2-A, AE 2/           2           2
Supervision 2           N        12/78           2          2-A, AE              4            1
Supervision 3           N         4/79           2           2-A, AE              4           2
Supervision 4           N        12/79           1I          I-A                  1-1/2       2
Supervision 5           N         S/80           1           I-A                  1           2
Supervision 6           N        11/80           if          1-A                  if          2
Supervision 7           N         4/81           2           3-A, 0               6           3
Supervision 8           N        12/81           2           l-A                 2            3
Supervision 9           N         1/83           2           2-A, F               4           2
Supervision 10          N         6/83           2           I-AE                 2           3
Supervision 11          N         3/84           if          I-AE                1I           3
Supervision 12          N        11/84           if         2-AE, 0               3           3
Name of Currenicy:  Mbloti
Exchange Rates:           1978 (Appraisal)   US$1 - 0.87
Intervening Years  US$1 - 0.87
1984               US$1   0.31
1/ N - Nairobi East Africa Regional Staff.
T/ AE - Agricultural Economist, F - Financial Analyst, A = Agricultvralist, AE - Agricultural
Economist.



- iv -
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM PROJECT
(CREDIT 795-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.        This was the second agriculture project in Lesotho supported by
the Bank-Group. The obstacles to agricultural development were and remain
formidable: poor soils, low rainfall, variable and extreme climatic
conditions and the degradation of the land from overgrazing. However, the
country has relied heavily on remittances; about 60% of its male population
works permanently in the South African mines. Remittances are the single
most important source of national income and are so widespread that they
have reduced the importance of crop farming, although they provide regular
inflows of capital for private farm investment. On farms without
remittance income, farming remains at the subsistence level.
2.        The project, which aimed at iacreasing the production of major
crops by arresting declining crop productivity and increasing the intensity
of cultivation through the use of appropriate inputs, extension, credit and
technical assistance, was unsuccessful. Like the first Bank-supported
project (the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project, 1973), BASP was based
on the premise that by using fertilizer, yields and income could be
increased substantially. This had not been demonstrated under the Thaba
project, which was not successful and no evident progress was made under
BASP. While yields were increased by using fertilizer it was not economic
to do so under the poor soil and climatic conditions in which crops are
grown in Lesotho, especially as the major aspects of husbandry were poor.
Under these conditions, the cost of the fertilizer largely offset the value
of the additional productivity. Moreover, the harsh agricultural environ-
ment had been inadequately reflected in the appraisal team's estimate of
yield increases.
3.        The credit itself mainly funded the technical experts, engaged to
coordinate project implementation and provide technical assistance for
project purposes. However, continuing disorganization, stemming mainly
from the Borrower's inexperience and limited capability, marked the project
and little institutional development was achieved. Whether the extension
service, which showed some improvement at one point, can maintain progress
remains to be seen. The co-donors funded infrastructure, which experienced
mixed success. Access roads, to the limited extent they were built, serve
a useful purpose. MDst of the stores which were built are not in use
bacause a new input distribution system, based on the use o' the stores,
did not work and was abandoned. A new rural credit system was given a one
year trial period but did not prove successful.
4.        Because of this history, and the Borrower's decision to give
primary attention to a competing program (food self-sufficiency under a
highly mechanized system of farming) the co-donors effectively terminated
their participation in the project at end 1981. The Bank reduced its role



v 
as well, Bank and co-donors agreed that such a mechanized system was
highly uneconomic and constituted a large drain on the country's limited
resources, which it proved to be.
5.        There are several lessons to be learned from the project's
experience, of which the foremost are:
(a) the importance of properly assessing the Borrowers
capability; even if Bank crop assumptions had been correct
it is likely that the disorganization which prevailed would
have lead to project failure. The arrangements set forth in
the appraisal report might have worked with a strong
Borrower, but the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was institu-
tionally weak and ill-equipped to contend with the diversity
of donors and conflicting interests, and to mediate the
procedural and technical proble.as encountered. There was an
awareness of this at appraisal but no adjustments were made.
(b) mistaken premises: Bank assumptions on increasing crop
yield were not based on actual experience or trials in the
country but on a synthesis of experience obtained elsewhere,
which did not give proper weight to the relatively unique
characteristics of Lesotho, among which climate and the
lesser role played by agriculture are the most important.
(c) project objectives: much of development assistance to the
country has been "part of a long-term process towards
viability of agriculture, which would have to absorb most of
the migrants in the event of a large reduction in migrant
labor in South Africa"1/. In fact, some reduction in
employment opportunities in South Africa has occurred.
However, it is not at all certain that the agriculture
sector has the absorptive capacity to employ all, or the
bulk of, the country's migrant labor force now in South
Africa. Before mounting any new agriculture projects
therefore, it seems imperative to review the country's
agricultural history to ascertain the practicable economic
range of possibilities, i.e., is crop farming destined to
remain at subsistence level, can an improved yield be
obtained at an economic price, and is there any basis for
contemplating greater food sufficiency and/or absorbing the
large absentee male population predominantly in the
agricultural sector, other than through subsidies. Some
indication of these possibilities is given in the Bank's
most recent agricultural sector review for Lesotho.
1/   President's Report.



- vi -
(d) inadequate dialogue: the Borrower did not understand
adequately the objectives of the project, lacked a full
commitment to it, and did not share the Bank's perception in
some instances. The lesson to be learned from this is the
importance of having an adequate dialogue with Government.
(e) timing of project: the project might have had a more
successful outcome had it been delayed until the predecessor
project was completed and results evaluated, as many of the
latter's failings were repeated in the project.
(f) Bank processing and supervision: altogether, the foregoing
suggests that there was some haste in appraisal timing,
perhaps due to an anxiety to maintain a planned processing
schedule so as to urgently assist the Borrower in
agricultural development.  That apparently led to some
deviation from normal project formulation practice; more
critical attention could have been paid to asessing the
technical and socio-economic parameters at appraisal. In
subsequent supervision, the Regional Headquarters could have
assisted the Field Mission at Nairobi more actively in
reevaluating and possibly redirecting the project.
9



LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM PROJECT
(CREDIT 795-LSO)
PROJECT PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Borrower has provided a Project Completion Report (PCR) in
one volume. It was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture with the
assistance of project recruited staff. The report is generally rcalistic
and objective, but puts a somewhat different slant and emphasis on several
aspects of project implementation than emerges from review of supervision
reports. To an unusual extent, natural and other constraints encountered
during implementation differed from appraisal expectations and account for
much of the project's difficulties.
2.        This memorandum is intended to supplement that of the Borrower
by:
(a) elaborating on donor arrangements and project organization;
(b) contrasting appraisal assumptions with the conditions found;
(c) comparing the differing perceptions of the Bank, co-donors
and Borrower; and
(d) providing conclusions,
3.        The Basic Agriculture Services Program (BASP) Project, Credit
795-LSO, for US$6.0 million, made in May, 1978, was intended to increase
the income of some 150,000 farming families in the country's cultivable
area.  This was to be accomplished through increased crop yields,
application of a basic input package, establishment of a rural credit
facility, and improvement of extension services, In an arrangement of
co-donors, the United Kingdom was to provide US$3.9 million equivalent, the
European Economic Community US$3.8 million, and Germany, through GTZ and
KFW, $4*7 million, which, combined with the Credit and local funding,
amounted to US$26.4 million. The Credit financed predominantly the
mainly foreign expertise recruited for the project, including the
headquarters team, and some civil works and vehicles, while the co-donors
mainly funded infrastructure, including a target of over 1000 km of rural
access roads, buildings for storage and distribution of inputs, a training
facility and extensive project staff housing.
4.        The Bank had proposed to coordinate project arrangements but the
three other donors decided to manage their respective project areas
independently. The project farming area was divided into five blocks for
this purpose, each donor (except the Bank) being responsible for one or
two of the blocks, The Bank fostered a central management unit - the BASP
division - which was attached to the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in a



- 2 -
mutual cooperation support arrangement, to advise MOA on agricultural
policy and help it coordinate donor activity. However, the other donors
dealt directly with the Ministry rather than through the BASP Division, the
Ministry's cooperation with the Bank was at best uncertain, and the
Government took certain nositions on agricultural policy independently of
the donors. Much of the time, the Government appeared disinterested in the
project. Thus, the system of project administration envisaged failed to
function.
II. CONTRASTS BETWEEN APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.        The first supervision mission concluded that the appraisal was
mistaken in assuming that the proposed input package would provide an
increased yield, resulting in an ERR of 12%. The mission's review of the
results of the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project (Credit 361-LSO),
found that many farmers had been using input packages similar to those
proposed for the project but did not obtain the results expected. The
mission's analysis demonstrated that while fertilizer did have a
significant impact on the gross yield, the cost of fertilizer largely
offset the value of the additional production. Nor did use of purchased
(high quality) seed have a marked effect on net production. The two other
inputs in the proposed package (discing and inter-row cultivating), were
already in use. In view of these findings it appeared that the economic
rationale for the project had dissolved.
6.        Also, the appraisal analysis had indicated that traditional
farming practice had already resulted in such severe soil erosion that crop
yields had been declining. The appraisal had estimated that application of
the proposed package of inputs would restore the soil to its former
condition. But the supervision mission's review of the data on which the
soil erosion premise was based, indicated that the history of erratic crop
performance correlated with weather performance and, in fact, crop yields
had not experienced a declining trend,
7.        As the result of their observations in the field, supervision
missions attached greater significance, than had been given in the
appraisa.  report, to the physical/climatic characteristics of the project
area when evaluating annual production patterns. They figured that the
liablilty of crop destruction by heavy rain, hail or frost was such that
farming was indeed a high risk venture and, therefore, that a traditional
farmer without remittance income would not risk his money to buy inputs
such as fertilizer, but only put minimum effort into farming. On the other
hand, farm families who had a member working in South African mines could
risk some of their remittance income in order to increase farm
productivity: if the crop were ruined it was not a tragedy, the earnings
of good years would be sizeable, and farming provided them only a secondary
income. The ERR calculations should therefore, (supervision missions
reported) have incorporated the climatical factor in the equation by
assuming, say, a complete crop failure one year in five, as in fact
suggested in a study made some years before appraisal. Such an assumption
would have greatly reduced the ERR and necessitated change in project
design or a different project approach.



- 3 -
8.        In any case, it became apparent that MOA was sponsoring very
heavy applications of fertilizer and, moreover, that advice on rates of use
differed depending on the source of the advice as well as the program. For
example, the MOA recommended quantity of fertilizer for maize cost 52
rands/ha, whereas in the mechanized program the cost was 112 rands/ ha. In
the appraisal report, the cost is 16 rands/ha and, of course, traditional
farmers do not use fertilizer. In short, the fertilizer situation was not
clear.
9.        On the basis of the initial two supervision missions, the Bank
realized it would have to shift goals; i.e., aim at development of another
input package based on actual trials while in the meantime improving
extension and other agricultural services, At the same time, MOA sponsored
a move toward full mechanization of farming with the ostensible objective
of achieving food self-sufficiency (FSSP). The intention was to displace
hand labor over ultimately the entire arable area and, combined with heavy
fertilizer usage, achieve highly intensive cultivation. But the mechanized
initiative drew financial and human resources away from the BASP project.
By 1981 the Government was losing increasingly large amounts on the
mechanized program, and began to take heed of the Bank's views about the
counter productive results of such heavy fertilizer use, and of the
mechanized program per se. It eventually did reduce fertilizer usage to a
limited extent in the mechanized program.
10.       At appraisal, it was proposed to modify some existing organiza-
tional structures, notably the displacement of a system of village level
fertilizer distribution, whose operation by village authorities was erratic
and unreliable. This was to be accomplished by establishing a series of
stores throughout the preject area which were to be operated by the Produce
Marketing Corporation (PMC). The appraisal report was not fully clear on
why the existing system should be altered, or why its improvement should
not be attempted with project help. In any case, the PMC initiative was a
serious failure. A decline, already well underway, in the amount of
produce handled and sold by PMC, accelerated under the new system and there
was little use for the many stores built (under co-donor financing), The
PMC itself grew into a state of disuse and was eventually incorporated into
Coop Lesotho. The stores remain largely unused, alternative use for only a
few being found. A new method of distribution is still being sought.
II.       In the face of a considerable number of existing credit institu-
tions, none of which had been effective in providing rural creiit, a credit
organization was finally established, with some difficulty, but operated
only one year. The Lesotho Agriculture Development Bank took over the
credit facility, as had been the eventual intention, but rural credit still
remained the problem it was, It is conceivable that the new credit system
would have been eventually successful if it had been given a chance but the
end of its first year of operation coincided with project redesign and the
credit component was terminated. Under a subsequent IFAD project a further
attempt was made to improve rural credit, with mixed success. The IFAD
project also supported Coop Lesotho and provided technical assistance to
improve MOA.



- 4 -
12.       The project carried on largely because of the momentum of the
donors' infrastructure activities, and the hope that continuation of
technical assistance would improve agricultural practices and make the
project worthwhile. BASP had been seen by MOA as an alien organization,
with its own objectives, independent funding an authority, existing in
parallel with MOA, even though this had not been the intention. Various
institutions and officials dealing with BASP thought the same way, even
though BASP had never been allowed to assume the project coordinative
powers it was notionally given, and which were essential for project
implementation. Supervision missions proceeded to take measures to obviate
the separate identity of the project. The BASP Division was absorbed by
MOA and by close of 1981, when the project largely came to an end, the
process was completed. This aspect of project experience, reflected not so
much organizational inadequacy as it did the insufficient understanding
that officials had of the project.
13.       A mid-project review, on which the project's second phase would
be contingent, had been agreed by the donors, and was made early in 1981.
The co-donors hinged their further support of the project on clarification
of the Government's policy on the fully mechanized FSSP program: all
donors considered FSSP an uneconomic and unwise activity in a country with
only marginal agricultural possibilities, a very heavy fiscal drain, and an
interference with the conduct of the project. The Government never did
explicitly respond and the three co-donors therefore discontinued new
activity, except for continuing to fund some experts.
14.       Activity deteriorated greatly as participation of the donors
dwindled, and by 1983 the Government failed to provide project counterpart
funding, including money to pay the extension service.   There was a
breakdown of the extension service and the T&V extension system was
virtually dropped, many extension workers quitted, and extension became
ineffective. However, the third year of crop trials continued with Bank
and UK assistance, and in this connection the Bank continued to fund
expatriate expertise who were in place. In April 1984, IDA suspended
disbursements other than oa ongoing contracts pending receipt of
outstanding project audits. Suspension was lifted in August 1984 when
audits for 1981/82 and 1982/83 were received. The 1981/82 audit had been
qualified by the auditors to the effect that only 16% of disbursements,
excluding diract IDA disbursements to suppliers, were documented. The
Credit was &llowed to continue to its closing March 31, 1985, the original
Closing Date, and disbursements were permitted until December 1985. An
amount of US$2,077,000 of the credit was cancelled December 6, 1985.
15.       However, as late as June 1984 the Regional Mission wrote the
Borrower that the Bank believed the BASP concept was still sound and that
it would be beneficial to the country to now exploit the sunk investments
by providing services to enhance production and employment; and it hoped to
discuss Borrower proposals to revitalize the project.
16.       The preparation and appraisal of the project had taken over three
years because considerable difficulty was experienced in defining the scope
and objectives, agreeing on project orgauization and its relationship to
the Ministry of Agriculture and the individual roles of the co-donors and,
above all, on moving Government to settle on its own project role. None of



-5-
these matters were settled except in an approximate way, and project
formulation and subsequent implementation was marked by continuous shifting
of ground on agricultural policy, organization, project composition and
objectives. Much of this must be traced to Government's very limited
experience, and to the limited body of agricultural knowledge in the
country.
17.       During the appraisal stage reservations were expressed in the
Bank about such aspects as the limited capacity of the Government to
implement the project, the need to simplify the project, the fact that the
country had never been the recipient of any of the growing body of
information available (to nearly all countries) on variety trials and
associated research 1/ and that the without-pt,ject yield shown in the
appraisal was much below actual. Most of these reservations were borne out
by project experience.
18.       The Resident Mission in Nairobi was responsible for project
preparation while the appraisal was carried out by headquarters.
Supervision was the responsibility of the Resident Mission. Supervision
was extensive, but the Nairobi staff did not receive much help or advice
from headquarters on this extremely awkward project. It took a long time
before the project was classified as a (3) problem project, even in the
face of the early supervision findings (paras. 3 - 7).
III. DIFFERING PERCEPTIONS OF THE BANK, CO-DONORS AND BORROWER
19.       There is some difference between the Borrower's perception of
project experience and the Bank's. Foremost is that of the role of the
FSSP, with the objective of achieving food self sufficiency through the
fully mechanized system. The Bank and other donors considered the program
intrinsically wrong in that it was uneconomic, competed for the country's
resources and would leave idle the farmers who owned land in the program.
The Bank did not believe that greater food self-sufficiency could be
sustained through a capital intensive form of annual field crop
production. The Government initiated FSSP independently of the donors.
Had the donors known of FSSP, presumably the project would not have gone
ahead, at least as planned. In adopting FSSP, the Government was prompted
by farming practice in the bordering Orange Free State of RSA. But farm
sizes are much larger in RSA and in Lesotho there is much less available
land--situations which were not adequately weighted by the Government.
Nevertheless, the Government was dedicated to FSSP, ignored losses, and was
not responsive to donor expressions of its disutility.
20.       The Government thinks that the project collapsed when co-donor
assistance was withdrawn in 1981 and the project was not allowed to operate
long enough to demonstrate the value of T&V to agricultural development.
But by 1982 the project had long since failed in a production sense and,
lacking a proven input package, extension demonstration services, at best,
faced a formidable problem. In any case, Government did not have the means
to pay the extension service owing to FSSP losses.
I/ Because of its client relationship with South Africa.



- 6 -
21.       The Government regretted the exclusion from the project of a
livestock component on the grounds that it could have provided at least
some return. But the Bank had excluded one because the appraisal analysis
indicated it would be uneconomic.
22.       There is something to say for the Government's view that agricul-
tural projects do not necessarily require intensive infrastructural devel-
opment at the outset - that initially, at least, planning, research and
extension can be focussed on, and appropriate cropping regimes started,
rather than proceeding forthwith with extensive infrastructure construc-
tion, as was the case in this project. While this is hardly of universal
application, in this instance it would have made sense. Up to a point the
provision of infrastructure was counter-productive in that it provided the
appearance of progress when, in reality, there was no agricultural
accomplishment; for example, the provision of stores that were not needed.
23.       Because of the looseness of donor arrangements and the fading of
co-donor interest, information on co-donor support is limited. As of the
mid-term review (1981), which except for some further limited expenditures
marked the end of German, British and EEC participation, donor
disbursements were as follows:
IDA       UK        GERMAN       EEC
(US$ millions)
Capital Expenditure                   0.979       1.627       0.381       1.357
Operating                             1.211       0.683       0.097       0.709
TOTAL                               2.190       2.010       0.478       2.066
Aggregate Disbursements to 1981: 6.744.
24.       On this basis, total disbursements of the three co-donors, was
about US$ 4.6 million or 37% of their aggregate financing of US$ 12.4
million.  The results of the main infrastructure elements of the project
were as follows:
Roads:  planned 1,429 km, revised plan 341 km, actual provided 124 km
Stores: planned 88, built 44, in use 10.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
25.       The production objectives were not achieved for lack of an
appropriate input package, and in any case, because of general disorganiza-
tion and the failure to build-up adequate services. The ERR is, at best,
almost certainly very low.
26.       On the institutional plane there was considerable effort towards
creating a more general T&V extension service, manned by trained agricul-
tural generalists rather than experts of a single discipline, who, however,
could not be made available in anything like the number planned. The
Government appeared to be supporting this movement, but in 1983, with the



- 7 -
withdrawal of Government funding, the extension service, such as it was,
fell apart. Otherwise, the project was organizationally very weak because
of the combination of limited Government administrative capacity and the
co-donors' individual aims and interests. It is not evident that
Government and MOA have either profited, or been strengthened by the
project.
27.       A farming system research program funded by USAID, which was
intended to be integral to the project, never was so. It suffered a long
delayed start and was carried out in inappropriate farming areas, two of
the three of which were not in the project area. In the latter phase of
the project, the field trials conducted with UK assistance provided good
results but, likewise, do not appear to ha-e been done in the project area.
28.       A final question remains as to why such a large project
(US$30 million) was proposed for a small country of 1.4 million people in
which agriculture is marginal and not the primary source of income.
Donor assistance to Lesotho has been characterized in the file as too much
money chasing after too few projects. The President's Report states that
much of development assistance has been part of a long-term process to
establish the viability of agriculture, which would have to absorb most of
the migrants in the event of a large reduction in migrant labor in South
Africa. However, first the economic possibilities should have been
accurately identified, notwithstanding the country's political
imperatives. Before mounting any new agricultural projects it is essential
to ascertain the range of economic possibilities in the agricultural
sector.



LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAMMW
-(CREDIT 795-LS0)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
APRIL 1985
Lyulph Healing and Tseliso Ncholu
Ministry of Agriculture, Maseru



LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAMME
(CREDIT 795-LSO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
The BASP was an integrated agricultural infrastructure develop-
ment programme, started in 1978. Based on experience with earlier area
based projects the BASP was designed to remove constraints to agricultural
development identified in Lesotho and permit a modest increase in crop
production. The livestock sector was excluded from the BASP.
The BASP was designed to improve inputs supply and crop marketing
through the development of a retail store and road system, to provide
support for farm equipment and contract services, establish rural credit
facilities, upgrade the extension service and introduce improved crop
production packages for dryland field crops, such as maize, sorghum, wheat,
beans and peas.
The BASP covered the whole of the main cropping area in Lesotho,
the lowland and foothill region on the western border, where the majority
of the population live. The relative size of the project required several
donors. IDA funded central services. The BASP was split into six Blocks.
Five of these were funded by ODA (UK), GTZ (FRG) and the EEC.
Infrastructural development under BASP was achieved without
exceptional delays. Crop production and extension innovations were less
successful. There were doubts as to the economic viability of production
packages under BASP and insufficient information to formulate viable
alternatives. This resulted in the development of an adaptive research
programme. Extension upgrading proved more difficult than expected.
The growth of the GOL-funded direct mechanised production
programme (FSSP) reduced GOL commitment to BASP, and absorbed a substantial
proportion of MOA staff. MOA was not able to fulfill counterpart staff
obligations. Donor support for the BASP was withdrawn or reduced at the
mid-term review period (April 1981), and the BASP was absorbed into the
MOA. BASP funding continued for certain features (technical assistance,
transport, limited extension services) up to March 1985, at a reduced
level.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION
1.   Background
1.1     General
Lesotho is a small country of 30,300 square Km, surrounded by the
Republic of South Africa. The population (1985) is estimated at 1.4
million, growing at over 2% per annum. Over two-thirds of the country is
mountainous, and 13% of the land is capable of cultivation. The main



- 2 -
cultivated area is a narrow crescent of land on the western border lying
between 1,500 and 2,100 meters elevation. This was the BASP area. Lesotho
has few natural resources. Diamond mining has ceased. Exploitation of
water resources (the Highland Water Scheme) for export is being planned.
Agriculture contributes about a third of GDP (1985), and its contribution
is declining in the long term.
Lesotho is heavily dependent on the RSA economy.  The main source
of employment for Basotho men is wage labour in the RSA. The majority of
imports and exports are exchanges with the RSA. All communications are
through the RSA. Lesotho is a member of the South African Customs Union,
which generates the majority of GOL income (over 70%), and is a member of
the Rand Monetary Area. The local currency is at par with the Rand. The
majority of Lesotho's business activity depends on managerial and technical
skill from the RSA.
1.2     The Agriculture Sector
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, and is
the largest employer, accounting for 70% of domestic employment. Agricul-
ture is mainly for subsistence, with farms of about four and a half acres.
However, over a third of households control less than 2.5 acres. A third
of the land is held in units of over 7 acres. About 90% of the population
depend in part on subsistence farming.
The main crops are maize, sorghum, wheat, beans and peas. The
grain crops are the most important. Fruit trees (mainly peach) and
vegetables are grown by about three-quarters of farmers. Minor field crops
include asparagus, potatoes, sunflower and various fodder crops.
Cropping conditions in Lesotho are poor. Soil fertility is low
and erosion problems are severe. Land holding is on traditional usufruct
rights and reduces willingness to invest. Rainfall is erratic, and other
weather conditions, especially hail and wind, affect crops. The growing
season is short, due to frosts in the autumn, and the winters are severe.
Southern Africa is experiencing a period of severe drought, part of a long
term (twenty year) cycle, which was identified before the BASP was
implemented. Crop yields are controlled by rainfall.
Lesotho has a major grazing resource and livestock income matches
crop income. Cattle are a form of saving and confer status and prestige.
Cattle numbers are much highe:r than the carrying capacity of grazing land.
Mohair sheep and goats are kept, and the numbers of small stock have been
rising in the last ten years. Cattle numbers are declining. Wool and
mohair are the main agricultural exports. Lesotho is a net importer of
cattle at present. Cattle imports are closely related to mine earnings.
Other livestock include horses and donkeys (major forms of transport), pigs
and poultry.
Within the BASP area cropping conditions vary widely. The
rainfall and soils in the north are better than those of the south.
Rainfall is higher than average in the north, and is usually better
distributed. Soils have better moisture retention qualities, are less
liable to erosion and are deeper. Wind speeds are lower than in the



south.  South of Maseru, soils are sandy and shallow with large areas of
highly erodable "duplex" soils. Rainfall is both lower than in the north
and less well distributed. Crop yields are generally lower.
GOL places high priority on food self-sufficiency. Given
off-farm earning opportunities, it is difficult to motivate farmers to
increase crop production, as the returns are low. This has resulted in the
development of mechanised crop production schemes, which have succeeded in
raising output but hava proved costly.
1.3     Project preparation
BASP started as a second phase of the Thaba Bosiu Rural
Development Project (Credit 361-LSO). Project identification was in July
1975. Preparation was carried out by Thaba Bosiu staff. The concept
widened during planning and a two-phase programme, the BASP, was devised.
The first phase would improve marketing, input supply and introduce a
simple crop production package. Phase II would cover so-called "complex"
activities such as intensive crops, livestock, conservation, adaptive
research and infrastructure. The programme was designed as a series of
area based projects.  In June 1976 a preparation report was prepared.
Livestock were excluded as sub-economic.  In August 1976 an IBRD mission
raised the issue of regional and functional divisions of responsibility
between donors, arguing for a functional approach, noting counterpart and
manpower problems.  IBRD appraisal mission and follow-up occurred in
October 1976 and April, July and October 1977. The Appraisal Report
(No. 1524a-LSO) is dated 11.04.78.
BASP was a six-donor project, total cost $26 million, IDA
contributing $4.5 million. GOL negotiated directly with donors. ODA (UK)
agreed to fund Block I, but did not accept a functional split of responsi-
bilities. The EEC funded Blocks V and VI and GTZ/KFW (FRG) funded Blocks
II and III (GOL was unable to find funding for Block IV). Funding also
came from FAO, UNDM, Government of Israel and USAID for certain small
components.
1.4     Target groups and project goals
BASP was targeted at the entire farming population of the lowland
and foothill areas in Lesotho. This area was estimated to contain 75% of
the cultivated land (730,000 acres) and 67% of the rural population
(150,000 families).
The programme aimed to alleviate problems of low productivity,
growing land pressure and reliance on food imports by providing basic
agricultural services to increase the productivity of major food crops.
This involved development of physical infrastructure (roads and stores),
provision of inputs, credit, extension and output marketing facilities and
improving MOA planning implementation and ev tuation capacity. A large
training programme was required for the programme.
1.5     Infrastructure
The BASP required the building of access roads, stores, training
facilities, staff housing and office accommodation. Details are given
below.



-4-
1.6     Management design
Despite IBRD proposals BASP management was based on Blocks. Each
donor supplied Block level management. The overall management of the
programme was vested in BASP Division, with a Director reporting to the'
Deputy Permanent Secretary for Technical Services. The tea't included an
Adviser to the Director, Training Adviser, Credit Adviser, Senior
Agricultural Economist, Financial Controller, Agricultural Development
Adviser and Extension Adviser.
Donor funding went directly to Blocks, and this weakened the
control of central management. The BASP Division reported at the same
level as other divisions, and could exercise no control over them. This
weakened BASP effectiveness. Consultative committees were established, but
their influence was weak.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.     Infrastructure Development
2.1     Roads
An all-weather road system totalling 1,429 Km was indicated at
appraisal as necessary to serve the input system. This was questioned by
BASP management, and the Road Engineer for Block I drew up alternative
proposals. The quality of road construction was improved to MOW Gravel III
standards, to allow BASP roads to be handed over on completion for
maintenance. This reduced the road-building plans to 341 Km. Roads were
designated as essential, highly desirable, or desirable, and building
followed this priority rating.
Reporting of completion of road building is not clear. It is
estimated that 123.8 Km of roads were constructed by BASP before funding
was withdrawn in 1981. The BASP road programme ceased in all but Block I
at this time. The construction programme was hampered by a shortage of
qualified technical staff, late arrival of equipment and frequent
breakdowns of equipment taken over from previous projects.
The problems of operating a road programme within the MOA led to
the road construction unit in Block I being transferred to the MOW in
1981. Road construction costs were estimated at M19,000 per Km.
Road construction led to increased utilisation (from 20 to 50
vehicles per day), reduced journey times (from 30 to 12 minutes per 10 Km),
reduced transport fares, reduced vehicle operating costs (by 25%) and
increased public transport facilities.
2.2     Buildings
The BASP completed 170 structures. Input stores (44) were
constructed throughout the funded Blocks, Three mechanical workshops were
built. Training facilities were built and 15 offices, including an HQ
office, were completed. Housing was constructed for senior staff (19),
technical staff (67) and field staff (18).



-5-
2.3     Vehicles
Support for BASP activities required transport. Four-wheel drive
transport (24) was mainly for senior staff and mobile repair teams. Cars
and vans (28) were for general use, and motorcycles 4'5) for field staff.
Most of the latter were never used. Tractors (11) and lorries (3) were
used for road development.
3.     Management, Extension, Monitoring and Planning
3.1     Management performance
BASP was split into Blocks, six geographical areas which were
intended to be funded by a donor. Overseeing all the Blocks was a Block
management team formed into BASP Division, reporting, with other Divisions,
to the DPS (Technical).
The team at appraisal was found inadequate and extra posts were
created. Staff recruitment proved difficult, and it was some time before
all posts were filled. Counterpart staff positions were also difficult to
fill.
Block donors provided staff at Block level. Funding went
directly to the Block, reducing the control of BASP management. Block-
level staff were not integrated into district MOA structure, and Block
boundaries did not follow district boundaries. This isolated BASP from the
MOA. BASP management had no control over other divisions, and found it
difficult to integrate BASP and other MOA activities. Understanding of
BASP objectives and the role of other MOA divisions in BASP by general MOA
staff was low.
BASP management had problems dealing with several donors.
Disbursement, procurement and planning procedures were different in
different Blocks. Donors differed in the implementation of BASP
objectives. Cooperation between donors was poor. These problems could
have been avoided by routing all funding through BASP management, raising
the level of BASP management (the Director being at DPS level) and by
funding the programme along functional rather than geographic lines.
3.2     Extension service
BASP was intended as an infrastructure development programme.
Planning of improvements to extension concentrated on housing and training
facilities. During implementation the emphasis was placed on extension
service development, and BASP became seen as an extension support
programme. Extension development would increase field staff numbers to
1:600 farm households and introduce the T&V extension system.
Introduction of the T&V system was not successful. Farm
conditions in Lesotho are unsuitable for T&V and the system required
substantial modification. The research system is not in a position to
react in the short term and provide the kind of message to the extension
worker that T&V demands. MOA working conditions are alien to the T&V
discipline. Long-standing staff used to working in the MOA structured into
specialisms were unwilling to take on generalist duties, and non-BASP
senior staff were slow to accept the change.



- 6 -
BASP required 280 Extension Assistants, and this required a
training programme. There were difficulties in recruiting staff for
training. Female trainees were accepted for training, but their
performance in the field has been unsatisfactory. After 1982 the MOA was
unable to employ graduates due to budget restrictions.
BASP extension interventions have led to a development of MOA
extension institutions, and the MOA is still making progress towards a
decentralised generalist extension service.
3.3     Monitoring and planning
Management monitoring was based on annual work plans and
quarterly reports. These were prepared at Block level and coordinated by
BASP management. Block-level reporting was adequate. Programme level
reporting was less satisfactory, and planning was delayed.
Impact monitoring was based on a sample survey system at the
household level. The BASP baseline survey was the most comprehensive of
its type in Lesotho and provided valuable data for planning. The survey
system was not maintained after the first year of work, so it is not
possible to use the work for impact monitoring. The system design failed
to take into account other work being carried out in Lesotho, resulting in
unnecessary duplication of effort. Impact monitoring of BASP must be based
on the national data system, and not on the internal BASP evaluation
system.
4.     Crop Production Packages and Research
4.1     Crop production package
BASP was based on the assumption that a simple inputs package
would be able to raise production of the main field crops. Doubts as to
the economic viability of the package were raised early in the project. It
was found that in the north farmers had already adopted similar practices,
and yields were at or close, to levels envisaged at programme completion.
The MOA introduced new production recommendations, based on high levels of
inputs, and designed to maximise output in pursuit of national food self-
sufficiency goals. These were seen as uneconomic, and farmers have proved
reluctant to accept the advice. The extension service, as a result, found
itself without an acceptable message. This remains the ca3e.
4.2     Crop research
The uncertainties over the extension message led to the setting
up of trials, which were in effect demonstrations of recommendations.
These confirmed doubts as to their economic viability. Expectations of
early results from the Farming Systems Research project were unfounded, and
a need for an adaptive trial programme within BASP was recognised. These
were established in Block I, and continued up to 1984. The results are
valuable, and the experience points the way for similar developments in the
future.



- 7-
5.     Input Sugplies and Marketing
5.1     The input supply system
Proposals for the input supply system were based on experience
with the Thaba Bosiu Project. A system of Village Distribution Points,
operated on a commission basis by village residents, was to be served by
Area stores. This was changed at appraisal to a system of lock-up stores
operated by staff of the Produce Marketing Board (PMC). Retail outlets
were reduced from 354 to 85, and operating costs were higher. Stores could
not achieve turnover levels sufficient to cover costs.
Lack of support for the PMC led to a failure to meet BASP
requirements. Stores were built and never used. Marketing was handed over
to COOP Lesotho, supported by an IFAD-funded project. Most BASP-built
stores were not taken over. In recent years, COOP Lesotho has reduced the
number of outlets, and only 10 former BASP stores are still operated.
There is still a need to reduce the number of outlets if COOP Lesotho is to
cover its costs. Despite these problems the use of inputs has increased
rapidly in Lesotho, ae demonstrated by the exponential growth of fertilizer
sales. Part of this growth is due to GOL mechanised programmes, but
general sales are also rising quickly.
The change to preparation plans was unfortunate, and the input
supply system too elaborate. Greater reliance should have been placed on
private traders, who had supplied inputs in the past.
5.2     Output marketing
BASP intervention in output marketing was slight. Responsibility
for output marketing remained with PMC, and was handed over to COOP Lesotho
with other PMC operations. Low production and the decline of crop exports
has reduced the current importance of output marketing.
5.3     Prices
Lesotho experienced high levels of price inflation, common to the
region. These are not thought to have affected BASP unfavourably. GOL has
maintained input subsidies (currently 20%), and output pricing has been at
import parity for grains. Lesotho prices are higher than world prices due
to RSA policy, which Lesotho is obliged to follow quite closely.
6.     Credit
Credit is complex in Lesotho, with a number of credit sources,
and a long and unhappy history. The BASF was seen to require a credit
operation, and this was established. The Credit Unit was an interim
measure, and the assets and systems were to be handed over to the Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank (LADB) once this had established itself.
The BASP Credit Unit operated for one season, lending M28,705,
and recovering 91% of loans. It was then disbanded. The LADB did not take
over the Unit, and did not make use of the operational rrocedures devised.
The LADB did nct set up a field loans service, and lends.ng has been on a
narrow base. In 1984/85 the LADB became involved in seasonal credit for
the Food Self-Sufficiency Programme (FSSP).



- 8 -
BASP credit proposals were not implemented. Lending was only a
small part of the M2.3 million proposed. This was, in part, due to doubts
as to the viability of BASP crop production packages. There are signs that
the LADB will become more involved in lending in the rural areas in the
future.
7.     Training
The BASP required substantial training input. Senior staff
training was undertaken through overseas courses for MJA staff. Training
of extension field staff was undertaken through the Lesotho Agricultural
College. BASP built and staffed a campus in Leribe, which has to date
produced 102 graduates. The college has been taken on by LAC and is
offering a three-year course. MOA has been unable to absorb graduates
since 1981, but this is expected to be remedied.
In-service training of district staff was an important part of
BASP activities. A considerable number of courses were run, and this
system is still followed in the northern districts. In-service training of
counterparts was also undertaken, but in many cases MOA was unable to
provide counterpart staff.
8.     Machinery Services
BASP included workshops to service BASP vehicles and farm
machinery, to set up mobile repair teams to service tractors and ox
equipment, and to modify ox planters to separate seed and fertiliser at
planting. Workshops were underutilised, and short of funds. The central
workshop was taken over by MOA, and two outside Maseru have ceased to
function. The Mobile Repair Teams still function. The low rate of work
completed makes the operation expensive, and the service is not cost-
effective.
HASP plans to set up animal contractor organisations, and a
proposal to set up a tractor equipment hire scheme were not implemented.
9.     Conservation and Mapping
The BASP economic return calculation included benefits to soil
conservation, arresting a long term decline in yields.  These account for
up to half the benefits of the programme.  The yield decline was later
found not to have occurred.  The BASP included no conservation measures or
expertise.  BASP contributions to conservation are minimal.
BASP management funded (through ODA) high class 1:20,000 mapping
of the entire BASP area. These maps are available for general purposes and
are a valuable planning aid.
IV. PRO.ECT IMPACT
10.    Productior Income and Employment
10.1     Crop production
Crop production in Lesotho is closely related to rainfall.
Recent studies indicate that in recent years fertiliser utilisation is also
important, and the growth of inorganic fertiliser use has been dramatic.



- 9 -
Tonnage of fertiliser is growing exponentially, and the nutrient content of
fertilisers has doubled in the last ten years. During the life of BASP
fertiliser utilisation neasrLy doubled.
The BASP coincided with a period of declining rainfall, following
exceptionally good seasons in the mid-1970s. This rainfall decline is part
of a predicted cycle of dry and wet periods that lasts about twenty years.
The poor rainfall has meant that yields during BASP have declined, despite
the use of more inputs. In the early 1980s rainfall was so low that
fertiliser response was close to zero. When rainfall improves, and
assuming farmers continue to use high levels of inputs, it can be expected
that production will rise to higher levels than have yet been achieved in
Lesotho. A 20 to 30% increase in yields would not be an unreasonable
expectation.
Grain crop area planted has tended to increase during the BASP.
Areas of sorghum and winter peas have grown considerably in the 1980s.
This is thought to be a response to poor rainfall (farmers shifting to
drought-beating crops) and is not directly attributed to BASP.
10.2     Household income
With declining crop yields, and increased levels of input
purchases, the impact of BASP on farm income cannot have been positive. In
better growing conditions the impact would still be small, as the margins
over increased input costs bring returns to minimum input systems and high
input systems at the same level.
10.3     Employment
BASP impact on farm employment was small. BASP was not expected
to alter employment significantly.
11.    Extension and MOA Institutions
BASP impact on extension was positive. MOA services are in the
process of being decentralised to District level, in line with BASP
proposals. The extension staff is being reorganised, with generalist
rather than specialist field staff. A T&V approach has been adopted as the
MOA extension method, though the system requires modification for
conditions in Lesotho. Technical expertise at district level has been
raised and the extension agent-to-farmer ratio improved.
The extension service is still suffering from many problems, and
the BASP goals have not yet been reached.
The BASP had a major impact on MOA institutions. Experience
demonstrated the problems of centralising functions within the MOA. Input
supply and credit services have been taken over by one MOA institution, and
the service to the farmer has improved. The recognition of the need for
farm-level adaptive research has demonstrated the value of this at district
level. BASP has provided valuable planning resources.



- 10 -
12.    Crop Research
BASP was not designed with a crop research component. The need
for one was realised, and crop research was undertaken through demonstra-
tions, adaptive field trials and farm management trials. The research was
restricted to the north of Lesotho, due to the withdrawal of other donors,
and the field work was carried out in poor growing seasons. The results
were, nevertheless, of great interest, and have value for future extension
efforts. The BASP experience demonstrated the need for and potential of
such an approach at district level.
13.    Input Supply
BASP impact on input supply was negative. A tested local supply
system was replaced with an elaborate retail stores system. Overheads were
too high to cover costs with the low level of sales that could be achieved,
given the seasonal nature of input marketing. The BASP input system has
been, mainly, abandoned. The experience gained by BASP has, however,
contributed to the development of the input supply system of COOP Lesotho,
and has led to improved inputs sales and a better service to farmers.
14.    Credit
BASP had very little impact on credit. The BASP Credit Unit was
not allowed to operate beyond one season. The operational methods and
staff developed by the Unit were not taken up by the LADB, which took over
BASP credit functions. Rural credit has not been generally established in
Lesotho.
15.    Farm Machinery Services
BASP plans to support animal draught contractors were not
implemented. Mobile repair teams were formed, and provided a service to
farmers, and provided training. The "BASP modification" to the SAFIM
planter (separating seed and fertiliser placement) was carried out.
Operating costs were very high, and the teams were not cost-effective.
Proposals to establish a farm equipment hire service for
contractors, to improve their services and tractor utilisation, were not
implemented. A similar service is being developed informally under the
FSSP.
16.    Infrastructure
BASP constructed rural roads. These improved communication and
reduced transport costs.
BASP constructed 170 buildings. These contribute to the
operation of the MOA, though serious housing problems remain, and office
accommodation is still inadequate.
17.    Training
BASP financed training for extension staff, permitting a major
expansion of MOA field extension services.



- 11 -
V. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
The ERR is not calculable on a straightforward basis, as the BASP
was overshadowed by other GOL interventions and weather effects were large
and negative. Three major benefit streams are identified for the BASP.
The use of inputs increased to levels that should provide increases in crop
production of 17,500 tonnes per year from 1985. The net return to this is,
however, negative. Road improvements have provided benefits of MO.3
million per year. There are substantial long-term improvements in GOL
institutions and planning abilities. These are not valued.
Based on these assumptions the total estimated deflated and
discounted 1979 cost of BASP is M7.36 million. Estimated benefits on the
same basis are M1.22 million. The estimated ERR is negative.
VI. SPECIAL ISSUES
18.    BASP and the Ministry of Agriculture
BASP was set up wizhin the NOA. The BASP objectives required the
resources of the whole MOA, and required a fundamental reorganisation.
BASP was not given authority over other divisions in the MOA, and reported
at Deputy Permanent Secretary level. BASP objectives were poorly
understood by MOA staff, and were not supported by other division heads.
This may have been due to BASP planning being carried out by Thaba Bosiu
project staff, and too little attention being paid to liaison and
diacussion. BASP staff and MOA staff were not integrated at the Block
level. BASP proposals to introduce a generalist extension approach were
resisted by field staff, and by division heads. This was in part the
normal resistance of established organisations to change, but was also due
to hurried implementation, insufficient explanation and a lack of
participation of staff in the decision process.
Despite the early problems the BASP approach has been adopted by
the MOA. Staff now understand the generalist approach, and divisions have
accepted decentralisation and the reduced emphasis on staff management
implied by the generalist approach. The awareness of the need for
technical direction by division staff is growing. The BASP should have
allowed a more realistic time frame for the changes proposed under the
programme.
19.    BASP and Donois
The BASP was a large programme, and relied on the cooperation of
Several donors. Proposals to split funding along functional lines were
resisted by donors, and the BASP was funded in the form of a series of area
based projects. Donors both staffed and funded the Blocks. Block
management tended to work directly with donors, BASP management was
weakened. Donors had individual ideas on development methods, and
coordination between Blocks was poor. Each Block was funded at different
times, so development was uneven. Each donor had its own procurement,
disbursement and reporting procedures, which led to problems for BASP
management.
The BASP should have been organised on functional, not regional,
divisions. RASP management should have controlled funding centrally.
Donor funding should have been channeled through a single agency.



- 12 -
Apart from direct donors the BASP relied on developments outside
the programme. The most critical components were a farming systems
research project and support for the marketing institutions. Both were to
be funded through USAID. The research project was delayed and did not
produce results in time for BASP. The marketing project was never funded.
Both resulted in major BASP components being weakened.
20.    The Food Self-Sufficiency Programme
GOL objectives for food self--sufficiency led to the growth of a
direct mechanised production programme.  This was seen as a threat to BASP
objectives of farmer development, was a considerable drain on GOL
resources, and absorbed large numbers of MOA staff. This affected BASP
adversely, and caused considerable problems with donors. GOL was unable to
convince donors that the two programmes were compatible, and this led to
the withdrawal of BASP funding and the collapse of the programme.
The correctness of the donors' decision is questionable. Recent
developments have shown that GOL is aware of the problems of the FSSP, and
the programme has been redirected into a form that is more compatible with
an extension-based approach. The FSSP never cultivated more than 10% of
the land. The collapse of the BASP means that future programmes will have
to repeat much of the development that BASP achieved. The BASP was not
al'owed to operate long enough to demonstrate the potential of the
extension approach to development.
21.    Crop Production Packages
The BASP was designed around a crop production package over which
serious doubts were raised. The viability of later MOA "Cropping
Guidelines" was also strongly questioned. The need for an adaptive
research programme was recognised during implementation. Lesotho is known
to be a difficult country for crop production, and there is a long history
of crop research. A careful study of experience in Lesotho, to reevaluate
the technical and economic implications of production recommendations,
would permit more realistic guidelines to be drawn up. There is still a
need for such work.
22.    Livestock
Livestock development was excluded from the BASP. Given the
importance of the livestock industry in Lesotho, contributing about half of
farm income, this decision should be questioned. The integration of
livestock and crop farming is an important issue. Intensive livestock
enterprises have a major role. Fodder crops production is seen as a major
development in the medium term.
If the BASP did not have access to suitable livestock production
packages, the need for them was apparent. The BASP should have funded a
livestock production research operation, for which there remains a strong
need. This would best be based on farm-level adaptive research.



- 13 -
23.    Infrastructure Development
The BASP had major infrastructure components. Progress was
good. Infrastructure dominated management activities, and reduced emphasis
on the use of the facilities constructed. Rapid infrastructure development
led to planning errors, and considerable resources were devoted to unneeded
structures, especially input stores. Slow progress in extension
development and production impact was in part due to the emphasis on
infrastructure.
It is inevitable that management will concentrate on the urgent,
the material and visible aspects of a programme. It is very uncertain that
these developments are essential to impact at the farmer level. It is
difficult for management to concentrate on the abstract, hard to measure,
and invisible benefits of improved extension services, better planning and
positive management.
Whilst infrastructure development is important to a crop
production development programme the cost of delaying the construction
phase would be low. Some essential construction (housing, office space,
etc.) may be needed to establish the programme, but the construction of
roads, stores, etc., could be placed in the last years of the first phase.
The advantages would be a management more able to devote effort to
institution building, staff development, planning and monitoring
procedures, etc. Project staff could devote time to detailed
infrastructure development based on their own local knowledge, resulting in
better designed and located facilities and reduced costs. The BASP was,
for example, fortunate to employ a road engineer who reviewed and
substantially improved road construction proposals BEFORE construction
started. Finally, placing infrastructure at the end of the project will
improve the net present value of the programme.
Agriculture should not be considered in the same way as
industrial production. There is no need to construct a factory, as
production comes from the field. Delaying infrastructure construction for
a few years will not seriously hinder production impact, especially for
dryland farming systems.
VII. CONCLUSION
24.    BASP Design
The design of BASP was, in general, good. The modifications to
the input system had negative results. BASP management should have been
strengthened, reporting higher in the MOA structure. A single donor should
have handled all f-nds. BASP should have operated on functional rather
than regional lines. Too much emphasis was placed on the infrastructure
component, and this could have been carried out at the end of the first
phase.
25.    BASP Implementation
The BASP met with severe implementation problems. Infrastructure
development was largely achieved, though road construction was lower than
planned. Severe management problems were posed by working with several
donors. Vital developments outside BASP were delayed, causing problems.



- 14 -
The growth of the Food Self-Sufficiency Programme led to the collapse of
the BASP, which was only fully effective for two cropping seasons.
The BASP led to positive developments in agricultural
institutions. Input delivery increased despite a poor marketing design.
MOA decentralised its operations and moved towards a generalist extension
service. Field staff were strengthened, and training facilities increased.
Valuable experience with farm-level adaptive research was gained,
and BASP contributed to information required for planning of MOA
activities. The BASP highlighted the need for the development of viable
crop and livestock production packages.
Experience with support for mechanised and draught animal
contractors was negative, partly due to the short time BASP operated.
Impact on rural credit was small, though the BASP Credit Unit functioned
well for one season.
Though difficult to assess, it is likely that despite serious
problems the BASP benefits were sufficient to cover costs.



