Report No. 1524a-LSO
Lesotho                                              FLE CW
Appraisal of ther  ECr
Basic Agricultural Services Project
April 11, 1978
Eastern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U~~~~~
FILE COPY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted dtstnbution and may be used by recipients
only rn the performtance of their offtcial duttes its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatton



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =        Rand (R) 0.87
R I                        US$1.15
R 1,000,000       =        US$1,150,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Bag = 200 lb                               90.74 Kg
I Kilogram (kg)                              2.204 lb
1,000 kg = I metric ton (mt)                 0.98 long ton
1 meter (km)                                 1.09 yards
1 millimeter (mm)                            0.309 inch (in)
1 Kilometer (km)                             0.62 mile (mi)
1 Acre (ac)                                  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 Sesoto Acre                                0.222 acre (ac)
1 kg/ac                                      2.204 lb/ac



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BASP            Basic Agricultural Services Program
FED             European Development Fund
GOL             Government of Lesotho
GTZ             Deutsche Gesellschaft Fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) GmbH
KFW             Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiederaufbau
LADB            Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
ODM             Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.)
PMC             Produce Marketing Corporation
RSA             Republic of South Africa
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND   CONCLUSIONS   .....                            ................ ............
I.       INTRODUCTION                           .................................... ........
II.        BACKGROUND                           ..............................................                                         2
A.       General   ............................................                                                             2
B.       The  Agricultural   Sector   ............................                                                          2
C.  Area-Based Projects .....................                                                                               3
D.   Agricultural Services ..... ...............                                                                            4
III.         THE   PROJECT   .............................................                                                               6
A.   General Description . ..                                       ..............................                          6
B.       The  Project   Area   ...................................                                                          6
C.   Detailed Features ..................................                                                                   7
Field Services .....................                                                                    7
Central Services ....................                                                                   7
D.  Project Costs .............................,                                                                            9
E.  Financing                          ................................                                                     9
F.       Procurement                           ........................................                                   10
G.       Disbursements   .......                    .......... ..                ...................                      10
H.       Accounts   and  Audits   .............................. ..                                                       11
I.       Environmental  Impact   ............................. ..                                                         11
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................                                                                      12
A.       Field  Operations   ...................................                                                          12
B.       Central  Services   and  Training   ......................                                                      12
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, FARMERS BENEFITS
AND EFFECT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET    .                                          .........................                  16
A.        Production   .......                 ............ ..                  ....................                     16
B.       Marketing   and  Prices   .............................. .                                                      17
C.       Farmers   Benefits   ................                            ..          .................                  18
D.        Effect   on  Government  Budget   ........................                                                     19
VI.        ECONOMIC  BENEFITS AND  JUSTIFICATION  .....................                                                              20
Benefits   ....................................... ....                                                        20
Risks                      ..............................................                                      20
Employment   ..................................... ....                                                        21
Income   Distribution   .............................. ..                                                      21
VII.         RECOMMENDATIONS   .........................................                                                              21






ANNEXES
1. Ministry of Agriculture - Organization and Management
Appendix 1 - Key Project Headquarters Staff- Terms of Reference
2. Monitoring and Evaluation
Appendix 1 - Work Schedule
3. Agricultural Credit
Appendix 1 - Policies and Procedures for Credit Operations
Table 1    - Estimates of Incremental Seasonal Inputs and
Credit Requirements
Table 2    - Medium-term Credit Requirements
Table 3    - Long-term Credit Requirements
Table 4    - Total Credit Cash Flow
Table 5    - Credit Terms of Area-Based Projects
4. Training
Table 1    - Projected Training at Farmers Training Centers
5. Farm Budgets
Table 1    - Crop Margins by Model per Acre-Northern
Table 2    - Crop Margins by Model per Acre-Southern
Table 3    - Budget for 4.5 Acre Farm-Northern and 7.0 Acre Farm-Southern
6. Market and Prices
Appendix 1 - Price Adjustments for Taxes/Duties
Table 1    - International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Small
White Haricot Beans
Table 2    - Derivation of Farmgate Price for Small White Haricot Beans
Table 3    - International Lesotho and RSA Prices of Maize
Table 4    - International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Wheat
Table 5    - International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Grain Sorghum
Table 6    - Farmgate Prices of Peas in Lesotho
Table 7    - Output Prices used in Economic Analysis
Table 8    - Input Prices used in Economic Analysis and those
Paid by Farmers
Table 9    - Derivation of Farmgate Prices of Fertilizers
Table 10   - Official Imports of Maize and Maize Products, Lesotho
Table 11   - Exports of Wheat from Lesotho
7. Estimates of Input Requirements and Agricultural Production
Appendix I - Basis for Coefficient of Yield Losses as a Result of Soil Erosion
Table 1    - BASP Areas
Table 2    - Summary of Actual and Recommended Crop Input Packages
Table 3    - Yields for Different Levels of Farm Practices



Page 2
8. The Produce Marketing Corporation
Table 1    - PMC's Balance Sheet as of September 30, 1976
Table 2    - PMC's Income Statement for the Six Month to September 30, 1976
Table 3    - PMC Store Program
9.  Improvement of Feeder Road Infrastructure
Table I    - Improvement of Feeder Road Infrastructure
Table 2    - Composition of the three Road Improvement Teams
Table 3    - Composition of Road Maintenance Teams
10. Project Costs
Table 1    - Summary of Costs
Table 2    - Ministry of Agriculture - Headquarters
Table 3    - Training
Table 4    - Block I
Table 5    - Blocks II and III
Table 6    - Block IV
Table 7    - Block V
Table 8    - Block VI
Appendix I - Contingencies
11. Project Implementation Schedule
12. Disbursement Schedule
13. Government Cash Flow
14. Economic Analysis
Table 1    - Economic Flows
Table 2    - Sensitivity Analysis
CHART
BASP Organization Chart
MAP



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural development project in the
lowlands and foothills of Lesotho that contain 730,000 acres or 75 percent
of the cultivated land, and 150,000 families (two-thirds of its rural
population), encompassing the borrower's Basic Agricultural Services Program
(BASP). It is based on the experience of existing area-based projects,
including the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project financed by IDA
(Credit 361-LSO).
ii.       Lesotho is a small, largely mountainous landlocked country.  As
much as 60 percent of the male labor force temporarily or permanently resides
in South Africa for employment. Remittances by male family members contribute
up to 80 percent of the farm family income. The rate of growth of employment
opportunities in South Africa has been levelling off in recent years. With a
rate of growth of population of over 2 percent per annum, this has already led
to great pressure on Lesotho's poor and depleting land base.  Soil erosion in
Lesotho is one of the worst in the world and is aggravated by overgrazing.
iii.      Combined with the absence of able-bodied males, the soil and cli-
matic conditions have resulted in extensive use of ox-ploughs and some
tractors, often supplied by service contractors. Nevertheless, farming is
basically a subsistence activity carried out largely by women using family
labor for weeding and harvesting. Yields are among the lowest in the world.
Production of cereals is reported to have declined by 40 percent between 1950
and 1970. Dependence on food imports to meet the domestic food requirements
has been growing in recent years.
iv.       The proposed Project aims to alleviate these problems of low and
declining productivity, growing land pressure and reliance on food imports
by providing basic agricultural services to increase productivity of major
foodcrops. The Project involves development of physical infrastructure, i.e.,
roads and stores, provision of inputs, credit, extension and output marketing
facilities, over a five-year period to increase productivity of five major
foodcrops: maize, sorghum, wheat, beans and peas. The Project also aims at
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to plan,
implement and evaluate projects, and includes a substantial training compo-
nent for field staff.
v.        The Director-BASP, Ministry of Agriculture, a new position to be
created under the Project, would be responsible for its overall management,
assisted by internationally recruited advisers. At the field level, existing
administrative structures would be used, though substantially strengthened.
Agricultural credit would be administered by a special unit to be created in
the Ministry of Agriculture for this purpose.
vi.       Project costs are estimated at R 23.8 million (US$ 26.4 million
equivalent) of which about US$ 15.2 million (58 percent) would be foreign
exchange. IDA would contribute US$ 6 million or 23 percent of the total
Project costs. The remaining costs are expected to be covered by contri-
butions from UNDP (US$ 0.2 million), United Kingdom (US$ 3.9 million),



- ii -
Federal Republic of Germany (US$ 4.7 million), European Development Fund
(US$ 3.8 million), farmers own contribution (US$ 1.1 million) and Government
of Lesotho (US$ 6.4 million).
vii.      The specific component, within BASP, which IDA would assist comprises
the Ministry of Agriculture central services requirements including management,
training, and monitoring and evaluation. Its cost is US$ 8.6 million, to be
financed by IDA (US$ 6.0 million), GOL (US$1.3 million), UNDP (US$ 0.2 million),
Germany (US$ 0.8 million), ODM (US$ 0.3 million). Within this component con-
tracts for procurement of vehicles and equipment (US$ 0.5 million) exceeding
US$ 50,000 would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for goods and services costing less
than US$ 50,000 would be awarded following Government procurement procedures
which are satisfactory. In view of their small size, remoteness and dispersed
locations, it is unlikely that civil works (US$ 1.2 million) would attract
international bidders. Therefore, these would be carried out either by force
account or through local contracting procedures.
viii.     Direct Project benefits include reducing further declines in agri-
cultural productivity by gradually restoring Lesotho's soil fertility and
through increases in output of maize, sorghum, wheat, peas (for domestic
consumption) and of beans (mainly for export). These provide the Project
with an estimated economic rate of return of about 13 percent, on the basis
of the few existing proven technical packages. But the principal benefit
likely to arise out of the Project lies in the development of basic agricul-
tural services which would allow Lesotho to take advantage of hoped for future
developments (e.g., the results of a research program to be expanded with
assistance from USAID).
ix.       The Project would train over 400 extension agents and other field
staff during the first four years. Easy accessibility of the training
facilities by their location in rural areas is expected to attract more
women from farming communities into field administration. In the existing
area-based projects, women have already shown a substantial potential to play
an important role in this respect.
x.        An estimated 128,000 farming families residing in the BASP area
would benefit either directly from increased cash income and subsistence
production or indirectly from services that wou'ld be available as a result
of improved infrastructure and staffing. The Project would result in direct
employment of some 500 persons. The majority of the population that would be
affected by the Project consists of low income groups whose average per capita
income in 1977 prices is less than US$ 100.
xi.       Subject to the required assurances, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$ 6 million.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Although 90 percent of Lesotho's population lives in the rural
sector, about 25 percent of the country's GNP is derived from agriculture.
An estimated 60 percent of Lesotho's male labor force is employed in the
Republic of South Africa (RSA) whose remittances contribute about 30 per-
cent to GNP. With poor and eroded soils and erratic weather conditions,
Lesotho's agriculture is one of the least productive in the world.
1.02      In 1976, the landless population was estimated at 13 percent of
the rural populace and with land pressure expected to worsen and the employ-
ment opportunities in the RSA levelling off, Government is placing highest
priority to develop the agricultural sector, particularly to ensure self-
sufficiency in basic food requirements.
1.03      Considering Lesotho's limited financial and manpower resources, and
the willingness expressed by a number of bilateral and multilateral financing
agencies to provide funds for the country's development plans, the Government,
with the assistance of the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA),
has prepared a project concerning its Basic Agricultural Services Program (BASP).
Over a five-year period, this Project is expected to raise the level of income
from farming in the lowlands and foothills of Lesotho by improving the product-
ion of five basic food crops: maize, sorghum, wheat, beans and peas. It would
develop or improve feeder roads, marketing and credit services and essential
agricultural services mainly extension, training and provision of agricultural
inputs. The Project would also strengthen the central services of the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA), such as extension training, monitoring and evaluation,
and planning. The Project includes an important element of technical assistance
designed to develop institutions, train local staff and prepare future projects.
1.04      The European Development Fund (FED) and the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) have already negotiated with the Government their participation
in BASP. Two agencies of the Federal Republic of Germany (KFW and GTZ) and the
United Kingdom's ODM are also expected to participate in financing BASP, in
addition to the proposed IDA credit which includes US$ 280,000 equivalent already
provided under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
1.05      This would be the Bank Group's second credit for agricultural and
rural development in Lesotho. A credit of US$ 5.6 million, extended in 1973,
was for rural development in the Thaba Bosiu area (Credit 361-LSO). The
Project is making satisfactory progress and farmer participation exceeds
appraisal estimates (paras 2.14-2.16).
1.06      The Project was appraised in October 1976.  However, subsequent modi-
fications resulted in a further mission to Lesotho in April 1977, discussions
among GOL and donors in Brussels in July 1977 and an updating mission and con-
ference with GOL and actual and prospective donors in Lesotho in October 1977.
The appraisal mission included Ms. Lele, Messrs. Khouri, Niemann, Wijnand (IDA);
and Messrs. Karlovski and Sengupta (consultants).   Mr. Lomax participated
in the October 1977 mission and also assisted in writing this report.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Lesotho is a small landlocked country of 30,300 km . The population
is estimated at 1.2 million growing at over 2 percent per year. With a GDP per
capita in 1975/76 of approximately US$ 90 equivalent, Lesotho is listed by the
United Nations as one of the 29 least developed countries.
2e02      A narrow crescent of land in the north, west and south, ranging in
altitude from 1,500-2,100 m contains most of the population. This area is
considered as the 'lowlands' of Lesotho and the Basic Agricultural Services
Program (BASP) is concentrated in them. Over two-thirds of the country is
mountainous with peaks rising to 3,800 m. Only some 13 percent of the land
surface is cultivated. Lesotho has few natural resources other than hydro-
electric and tourism potential and some mining prospects.
2.03      The agricultural sector accounts for almost one half of GDP and about
70 percent of the country's export earnings. Services, of which commerce and
catering are the most important, account for about 45 percent of GDP. Secondary
activities (manufacturing, mining and construction) are of minor importance,
accounting for only 6 percent of GDP.
2.04      Due to its geographical location, the country is substantially
dependent on the economy of the Republic of South Africa (RSA). An estimated
60 oercent of Lesotho's male labor is permanently outside of the country and
employed in the RSA. The remittances of these migrants are of major importance
to Lesotho's economy, helping to offset growing trade deficits and improving
the standard of living of a large segment of the population, especially in
rural areas. Migrant remittances account for a substantial proportion of GNP,
such that GNP per capita in 1975/76 is estimated to have been about US$ 170
equivalent. Lesotho is a member of the Rand Monetary Area and the Southern
Africa Customs Union, receipts from which presently account for about 60 percent
of total Government revenues.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.05      About 90 percent of the country's population lives in the rural
sector. Land holdings range between 4 to 7 acres and in 1975 the landless
population was estimated to represent about 13 percent of the rural population.
2.06      The most important food crops are maize, sorghum, wheat and beans.
Through the existing area-based agricultural projects (paras. 2.12-2.16), a
variety of cash crops such as asparagus and potatoes have been introduced and
acceptance by the farmers is encouraging, although their overall impact is
quite small.
2.07      Poor and eroded soils, uncertain rainfall and the traditional
usufruct land use pattern, which only requires minimum agricultural use of
land to ensure continued occupancy, have resulted in Lesotho's agriculture
being one of the least productive in the world. Recorded yield per acre
levels indicate that production oi1 food crops declined by 40 percent during
the 1950-70 period.



- 3 -
2.08      Close to 75 percent of the total land area is clasiffied as pasture.
Animals are considered symbols of wealth, status, prestige and security and,
therefore, play a dominant role in the Basotho culture. In 1975, the foreign
exchange earnings from the export of wool, mohair, cattle and other livestock
products exceeded R 6.5 million (50 percent of exports). The livestock popu-
lation equivalent to about 1.2 million adult cattle units is greatly in excess
of the estimated national carrying capacity of 0.9 million.
2.09      As a result of overgrazing, cropping on unsuitable land, poor cul-
tivation practices, and the traditional land tenure system, soil erosion is
among the worst in the world.
2.10      In addition, climatic conditions present considerable risks in farming.
Long-term average annual rainfall for the country is about 740 mm. It varies
from less than 500 mm in the Orange River Valley in the south to 600-900 mm in
the lowlands in the north and to over 1,000 mm in the mountains. Most of the
rain falls between October and April. The average yearly rainfall would normally
be adequate for crop cultivation, were it not for erratic distribution and other
climatic disturbances. Droughts occur on average once every five years. Mid-
season droughts frequently hinder crop development, resulting in low yields.
Frosts occur during the early part of the growing season. Hail in December and
January, i.e., in the middle of the summer crop growing season and when winter
crops are maturing, is one of the farmer's biggest enemies. The combination of
these elements exacerbated by inadequate applied research (para. 2.18) contri-
bute to large year-to-year yield fluctuations and the low profitability of
farming.
2.11      To increase domestic income as well as to improve self-sufficiency
in food, the Government has placed highest priority on agricultural development.
During the First Five-Year Plan (1970/71-1974/75), this priority resulted in
the establishment of four major area-based rural development projects (paras.
2.12-2.16). These projects have added significantly to farmers' exposure to
improved farming practices. They have demonstrated the viability of fertilizer
and improved seeds, have introduced new cash crops and have assisted in esta-
blishing better marketing facilities. However, these area-based projects
cover only small isolated parts of the country with a disproportionate input
of foreign expertise and scarce trained local manpower, and their separate
administrations have hindered the strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture.
As they cannot be replicated to meet basic overall sectoral needs, the Govern-
ment's emphasis has now shifted to the Basic Agricultural Services Program
concept.
C. Area-Based Projects
2.12      The Khomokhoana Rural Development Project is a continuation and
expansion of the earlier Leribe Pilot Agricultural Scheme and covers a five-
year plan span ending in 1978 with funds provided by SIDA. Essentially it
involves extension, provision of inputs including credit, improvement of roads,
soil conservation and livestock development. The major cash crop introduced
is potatoes.



-4-
2.13      The Sengu River Agricultural Extension Project operated with funds
provided by UNDP. Apart from extension services, the project involved the
provision of seasonal credit for block farming by farmers' associations and
medium-term credit to finance purchases of livestock and agricultural equip-
ment by individuals. The project was completed in 1977.
2.14      The Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project, supported by IDA (Credit
361-LSO) and USAID, started in 1973 to promote agricultural development in an
area containing 75,000 cultivable acres with a population of 17,000 farm
families. The project included provision of extension services, input supplies,
seasonal and term credit, marketing arrangements, research, road construction
and improvement, livestock development, soil conservation and the introduction
of special crops (asparagus). An autonomous project authority was established
to execute the project over a six-year period. The total project costs were
estimated as US$ 9.8 million of which IDA provided US$ 5.6 million and USAID
US$ 2.8 million.
2.15      The project is making good progress and farmer participation exceeds
appraisal estimates. Crop yields have not yet reached appraisal levels due to
unexpected soil fertility problems. Research indicates that through higher
fertilizer rates and improved husbandry practices, yields can be increased
economically. Introduction of vegetables and fruit as well as dairying and
cattle fattening are likely to raise farm incomes above appraisal estimates.
Soil conservation work started late, due to delays in machinery deliveries, but
is now on schedule.
2.16      The project's agricultural production activities would be continued
under BASP. Although not covered by BASP, when the project is completed acti-
vities related to livestock development, soil conservation and the promotion
of asparagus production would be continued by the appropriate divisions of MOA.
A Project Completion Report and Performance Audit will be prepared during 1978.
D. Agricu]tural Services
2.17      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) (Annex 1) is primarily responsible
for the provision of services to the agricultural sector and operates through
the following divisions: Conservation, Livestock, Cooperatives, Extension and
Information, Research, Crops and Planning and Evaluation. As a result of poor
training, inefficient transportation facilities, relatively little supervision
and lack of a competitive incentive system, MOA is seriously understaffed and
short of qualified people and the few more experienced staff available have
often been seconded to area-based projects. This, combined with the fact that
major agricultural activities take place in the independently operating area-
based projects, results in MOA providing only rudimentary services for the rest
of the country. The improvement of MIOA services, other than research, is a
major focus of BASP.
2.18      The overall responsibility for research rests with MOA.  However,
the poor coordination of activities of Government research stations and
area-based projects combined with poorly specified trials and often incorrect
interpretation of its results is cause for concern. Additional problems are
inadequate and inexperienced staff with insufficient financial support. BASP
does not include a research component as a separate Farming Systems project



-5-
is being proposed which would strengthen MOA's research division by coor-
dinating research with activities of other MOA divisions including crops,
livestock and soil conservation. The project is expected to be funded by
USAID from mid-1978.
2.19      Until recently, the marketing of agricultural products was largely
in the hands of private traders or under the administration of area-based
projects. In 1973, the Government established the Produce Marketing Corpora-
tion (PMC) which, apart from organizing and regulating the marketing of agri-
cultural produce, advises Government of Lesotho on the establishment of
minimum producer prices, price differentials related to quality standards,
grading systems, and also exports and imports pulses, grain and grain
products.
2.20      The distribution of inputs is inadequately orgalnized.  Officially,
Coop Lesotho, Ltd., a state agency, had the countrywide monopoly for the
procurement of fertilizer. Since Coop Lesotho has been unable to ensure
timely imports and distribution the area-based projects have made their own
arrangements and a large number of farmers rely on private traders. Coop
Lesotho's inefficiency largely reflects the virtual non-existence of proce-
dures for estimating annual requirements.
2.21      Under BASP, the field aspects of input distribution and marketing
will be strengthened. PMC's headquarters operations are also expected to be
assisted when USAID funding for this purpose becomes available at the end of
1978; the timing of the future assistance will not cause problems for BASP
since provisions within BASP would suffice to handle interim requirements
at the field level.
2.22      Formal and informal training in the agricultural field is provided
through various institutions (including area-based projects) under the Minis-
tries of Agriculture and Education. Despite expansion in some fields, e.g.,
certificate and diploma levels, both the present and expected output of trained
staff are far short of projected requirements. Improvements in the training
program are a major focus of the IDA-financed part of BASP.
2.23      Agricultural credit is available through a number of channels
including commercial banks, credit unions, thrift societies, farmers' asso-
ciations, agricultural contractors and, most intensely, through the area-based
projects. Apart from the commercial banks and the area-based projects, credit
administration is badly managed with poor repayment records. Most insitutions
are in financial difficulties. With the exception of credit advanced by private
agricultural contractors, the demand for seasonal credit from the formal sector
does not appear to be substantial. This is largely explained by the large
remittances from migrant laborers. Requirements for longer term credit, for
farm implements and equipment, are considerable.
2.24      The demand for the services of private agricultural contractors has
been growing from households wishing to use improved agricultural techniques
but lacking equipment and laborers, mainly widows or wives whose husbands are
working in the RSA. These contractors are usually mechanized using ox or
tractor ploughs to cultivate the land for cash or a share of the crop, gener-
ally a third to one-half, depending on the input provided.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project covers the first five years of the borrower's Basic
Agricultural Services Program (BASP) and would strengthen agricultural
services, provide rural infrastructure and strengthen central management
for rural development programs. The Project would specifically include:
(a) strengthening and development of extension services and marketing
infrastructure for the five crops: maize, sorghum, wheat, beans
and peas;
(b)  provision of incremental agricultural inputs including fertilizers,
seeds and pesticides;
(c) strengthening of credit: services for farmers; and establishing a
Central Credit Management Unit within MOA;
(d) development and maintenance of feeder roads;
(e) improving the institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MOA) to enable it to coordinate and supervise Project
implementation by establishing a BASP division and strengthening the
Administrative, Accounting and Crops Divisions;
(g) establishing a Planning and Evaluation Division within MOA; and
(h) supporting a training component within MOA's Extension and Information
Division.
3.02      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility for
Project implementation and for ensuring effective coordination with other
Ministries and agencies concerned. Most services of MOA would be directly
involved in Project implementation and their activities would be coordinated
by the BASP division.
B. The Project Area
3.03      Six development blocks covering the whole of the lowlands (see Map)
have been designated by Government for development under the proposed Project.
This allocation has been done on a geographical and agricultural basis which
has cut across district administrative lines. The area covers 730,000 arable
acres, about 75 percent of Lesotho's arable land. About 66 percent of Lesotho's
rural population live in the Project area (128,000 farming families). Signi-
ficant differences between the northern and southern part of the country are
reflected in the soil types, the rainfall and the farm size per family. Farms
in the north average approximately 4.5 acres and in the south 7.4 acres. The use
of fertilizer has generally been higher in the northern districts, partly because
of better roads and partly due to a denser population. The area in the north
also receives higher rainfalls in comparison with lowlands in the southern



- 7 -
part of the country. Consequently, the yields in the south are generally
lower and more variable than in the north. Breakdowns on a regional basis
are shown in Annex 7.
C. Detailed Features
Field Services
3.04      In each of the blocks, similar activities would take place having the
same operational criteria. Each block includes the following activities: ex-
tension services, provision of credit, improvement of marketing services, and
improvement and maintenance of feeder roads.
3.05      Extension.  The extension system would be upgraded and reorganized to
accommodate the introduction of what has become known as the Training and Visit
System method, based on regular and frequent field visits of the extension staff.,
This would provide farmers on a regular and systematic basis with up-to-date
advice on improved farming practices. The staff would eventually consist of
Senior Crop Assistants and Crop Assistants in the ratio of 1:10 with one Crop
Assistant per 600 farming families, on average. To ensure the required mobility,
funds would be provided for the purchase and operation of vehicles and motor-
cycles. In addition, there would be funds to improve the activities of mobile
audio-visual teams as well as production of leaflets and radio programs and im-
provement of farm implement repair services.
3.06      Credit.  The Project would provide funds for incremental credit require-
ments for seasonal inputs such as fertilizer, commercial seed, insecticides and
animal feed; medium-term (2-3 years) for farm implements; and longer-term credit
(4-5 years) for such items as tractors with implements for agricultural contrac-
tors. The central credit management unit would supervise and administer the funds
(Annex 3).
3.07      Marketing.  To improve the delivery system for inputs, funds would be
provided to establish an effective distribution network. Eighteen depots, as
well as village-level lock-up stores would be constructed, all to be administered
by staff allocated to these units. The Produce Marketing Corporation (PMC) would
also be strenghened, outside BASP, under an expected USAID financed project (paras.
2.19-2.21). Annex 8 gives additional information on PMC.
3.08      Roads.  The Project would provide funds for the improvement and main-
tenance of about 1,000 km agricultural feeder roads. The principal investment
items would be materials, equipment, equipment operating costs and labor, and
the employment of three roads engineers.
Central Services
3.09      BASP Division.  To stxergMffien the management capacities of MOA
to coordinate and supervi   the implementation of BASP, a new BASP Division
would be established ilt'0A, to be headed by a Director (BASP).  The locally         -'
recruited Director (B SP)jwould be supported by a UNDP Adviser to advie-en-
overall management, dooia              implementatio                  roject also



-8-
provides two Agricultural Development Advisers, one each to be recruited by
the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom; their functions would
include, inter alia, liaison with the various field blocks.
3.10      The BASP Division would also be strengthened by providing an inter-
nationally recruited Workshop Manager to ensure that all BASP vehicles and
equipment are operated effectively.
3.11      The Accounting Division would be strengthened by providing an inter-
nationally recruited Financial Controller to establish an accounting system to
reflect government accounting procedures and the different financing agencies'
requirements. In addition the Financial Controller would be responsible for
managing the Central Credit Management Unit (para. 4.12-4.14).
3.12      The Crops Division would be strengthened by providing an interna-
tionally recruited Extension Adviser to assist in the implementation of the
Training and Visit Extension System.
3.13      Planning and Evaluation Division.  BASP represents the first stage
of Lesotho's new national agricultural development strategy. One of the most
crucial requirements for GOL is to have capable planning and evaluation staff.
The Project provides for the upgrading and strengthening of MOA's existing
Planning and Evaluation Division through the recruitment of two internationally
recruited Senior Agricultural Economists.
3.14      Extension and Information Division.  The Extension and Information
Division, responsible for training, would be upgraded by the addition of a
Training Adviser who would be responsible for developing curricula and planning
of courses. The three Farmers Training Centers (FTC's) which fall under the
jurisdiction of the Extension and Information Division, would be improved and
provided with appropriate staff to ensure the training of the required crop
assistants and animal and tractor service contractors. The addition would
consist of five internationally recruited trainers for upgrading crops and
animal husbandry extension, farm machinery and accounting activities.
3.15      For each of the above Divisions (para. 3.09-3.14) the Project
provides inter alia incremental supporting staff, housing, vehicles and
equipment. Further details on thie roles to be played by these units in the
management of BASP overall can be found in Chapter IV.
3.16      During negotiations assuarances were obtained that appointment of
the following staff would be made after consultation with the Association:
the Director-BASP and his adviser (para. 3.09), the Workshop Manager (para.
3.10), the Financial Controller (para. 3.11), the Extension Adviser (para.
3.12), the Senior Agricultural Economists (para. 3.13), the Training Adviseer
and the five trainers (para. 3.14).
3.17      To facilitate early recruitment of key management staff for the
Central Services, IDA has advanced to Government of Lesotho (GOL) US$ 280,000
equivalent from the Project Preparation Facility.



-9-
D. Project Cost Estimates (Annex 10)
3.18      Total Project costs including contingencies are estimated to be
R 22.9 million (US$ 26.4 million) and the foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at 58 percent (US$ 15.2 million). Base costs are estimated as at May
1978. Project costs by component are listed below:
Foreign
Total    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange
-------Rand '000-- ----    --------US$ '000…-----              %
Central Services
and Training       1,986      3,687     5,673   2,284       4,240    6,524        65
Block I              1,016      1,347      2,363   1,168      1,549    2,717         57
Blocks II and III      855      1,134      1,989     983      1,304    2,287         57
Block IV               453      _ 419        872     521        482    1,003        48
Block V              1,655      1,723    '3,3-78,  1,903      1,982    3,885         51
Block VI             1,214      1,610      2,824   1,396      1,852    3,248         57
Base Cost            7,179      9,920    17,099   8,255    11,409   19,664           58
Physical Con-
tingencies           420        557        977     483        641    1,124        58
Price Contigencies  2,085       2,764      4,849   2,398      3,179    5,577         59
Total Costs          9.L68g    132241    22z925  11XL36    15z229   26X365           58
None of the above costs involve direct GOL import duties or taxes.  However, GOL
may be expected to obtain a refund of some R 1.5 million (US$ 1.7 million) from
duties paid to the South African Customs Union.
3.19      Physical contingencies have been allowed at the rate of 10 percent
for all items except personnel. Price contingencies have been calculated at
the following rates: vehicles, equipment and all other operating costs 8 per-
cent p.a. through 1979 and 7 percent thereafter; civil works 12 percent through
1979 and 10 percent thereafter; and staff 10 percent p.a.
E. Financing
3.20      Project costs would be financed as follows:
US$      Percentage of           Proposed Component
(million)   Total Costs                 Financing
IDA                            6.0            23            Central Services
Federal Republic
of Germany                   4.7            18            Blocks II, III and IV
United Kingdom                 3.9            15            Block I
European Development
Eu<nd                         3.8            14            Blocks V and VI
( UNDP3                            .2             1           Central Services
Carwr6e'rs own
contribution                 1.1             4
Government of Lesotho          6.7            25
26.4           100
Includes indirect duties of  1.7



- 10 -
The proposed IDA credit of US$6.0 million would be to the Government of
Lesotho on standard terms and would be used to finance the Central Services
and Training components of the Project (Annex 10, Tables 2 and 3). The
credit would finance 23 percent of Project costs. The Federal Republic of
Germany would provide US$4.7 million through its technical assistance agency,
GTZ (a grant of US$1.8 million) and through KFW (a credit on IDA terms for
US$2.9 million). The European Development Fund has agreed to provide a grant
equivalent to US$3.8 million. Tlhe UK's ODM has agreed to provide a grant
equivalent to US$3.9 million. UNDP has agreed to provide technical assis-
tance equivalent to US$0.2 millon.  Lesotho contribi-ob-t-t-he-Prject
woulalNmount to equivalent of US$7.5 million. It is expected that following
a satisfactory outcome of a mid-iterm Project review the European Development
Fund would provide further funds for the financing of Blocks V and VI, re-
ducing the funding requirement of Government. It will be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA Credit ithat at least 60 percent of other external
funds are effective. Appropriate assurances were obtained at negotiations.
3.21      Funds for all Project investments financed by IDA would be channeled
by the Government to the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.22      In March 1977 the Association granted advance funding in the amount
of US$280,000 equivalent under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The
costs were to cover the salaries and wages of local and internationally
recruited staff, recruiting costs of new staff, supporting equipment, and the
construction of 4 housing units. The funds advanced will be refinanced out
of the proposed IDA Credit, as soon as it becomes effective.
F. Procurement
3.23      For Project components financed by IDA, contracts for the supply of
vehicles and equipment (US$0.5 million) exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Contracts for goods and services costing less than US$50,000 would be awarded
following Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. In view
of their small size, remoteness and dispersed locations, civil works contracts
(US$1.2 million) would not attract international bids and would be awarded in
accordance with Government procedures which are satisfactory. Civil works
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent would be expected to be
carried out by force account. Draft tender documents for all contracts ex-
ceeding US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before invitations
to bid were issued. Assurances on these procedures were obtained during
negotiations. Procurement for parts of the Project financed by Federal
Republic of Germany, ODM and EDF would be based on the standard procedures
of those institutions.
G. Disbursements (Annex 12)
3.24      Disbursement of funds from the proposed Credit would be on the
following basis:



- 11 -
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs 1/ or 90 percent of local
costs for vehicles and equipment (US$500,000);
(b) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of internationally
recruited staff (US$3,800,000);
(c) 75 percent of total costs of operating expenditures, including
local salaries and wages (US$800,000); and
(d) 75 percent of total costs for civil works (US$900,000).
Disbursements against foreign exchange costs under (a) and (b), and local
and total costs under (a) and (d) would be fully documented. Disbursements
against total costs under (c) would be made against appropriate certificates
of expenditure certified by the Director-BASP, the documentation of which
would be retained by MOA and made available for inspection by the Association
during the course of supervision missions. Any funds remaining in the Credit
account at Project completion would be available for reallocation to Project
related expenditure at the discretion of IDA.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.25      Separate accounts would be kept reflecting the expenditures financed
by the different agencies. The Project related accounts of MOA would be au-
dited by the Auditor General, which arrangement is acceptable to the Associa-
tion and other financing partners, and would be submitted to the Association
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Agreement to the above
was obtained during negotiations.
I. Environmental Impact
3.26      BASP would have no measurable adverse effect on the environment.
Recommendations to combat pests and diseases in the five basic crops allow
for minimal control consistent with economic considerations. At the recom-
mended levels, the pesticides, in practical use, are harmless to animals.
Combining this action with the improved fertilizer recommendations, the pro-
gram would reduce removal of nutrients from the soil, which is Lesotho's
most significant environmental problem. Further, by increasing the supply
of trained manpower and strengthening the institutional capability of MOA,
BASP would pave the way for future programs in soil conservation, land use
planning and livestock development, all of which would improve Lesotho's
environment.
1/   In this case, foreign exchange costs are defined as costs excluding
duties and taxes imposed by the South African Customs Union.



- 12 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      At the request of the Government of Lesotho the co-financing partners
have agreed that the Project would be implemented as a fully integrated opera-
tion, distinguishing among respective donor financed components only for the
purposes of procurement and disbursement.
4.02      The organization for the Basic Agriculture Services Program (BASP)
is essentially that of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with the exception of
a newly created BASP Division (Chart). Other divisions closely involved with
BASP are Accounting, Planning and Evaluation Division, Crops Division and
Extension and Information Division. BASP Division will liaise with each of
these other divisions during the implementation of BASP. After five years it
is expected that the BASP Division will be disbanded as its activities become
absorbed by other divisions.
A. Field Services
4.03      At the field level, the District Agricultural Coordinator (DAC)
is responsible for coordination of all agricultural activities, while the
District Crops Officer (DCO) is the senior extension man responsible for
all crops within a District including the five crops under BASP. The field
organization and management of BASP is structured along District lines. At
the field level, the various DCOs will be responsible for BASP activities in
their District as they relate to the five crops under the Project and they
will report directly to the BASP Division leaving the District Agricultural
Coordinator (DAC) responsible for other crops, livestock, horticulture and
irrigation, etc. The DCO is the focal point for the preparation of the annual
RASP work plan (para. 4.07) and will have field responsibility for its imple-
mentation. In both preparation and implementation he will receive advisory
assistance from the Planning and Evaluation Division and also from the two
Development Advisers (para. 4.06).
4.04      Roads will be built by three teams each under a road engineer who
will report to the Director-BASP. On technical matters the road engineers
will liaise with the Conservation Division MOA. Within each District they
will liaise with the respective DCO.
4.05      The DCO is responsible for implementation of the stores construction
program and will liaise with the District Stores Supervisors (PMC employees).
After construction, the stores will be managed by these Supervisors for the
storage and control of both inputs and outputs.
B. Central Services and Training
4.06      Planning and Coordination.  (Annex 2).  MOA's BASP Division headed by
a Director-BASP supported by an adviser (both already appointed), and would be
responsible for coordination, supervision and implementation of BASP. The



- 13 -
Director is responsible to the Deputy Permanent Secretary (Technical) MOA. The
main focus of the BASP Division would be concentrated on the annual work plans
(paras. 4.07-4.10), and coordination and policy guidance on implementation.
The Division would also be supported by two Development Advisers, one provided
under German aid and the other under British aid.
4.07      The basic tool of management for BASP will be the annual work plan.
Annual work plans will include inter alia details on the number of farmers,
volume, type and value of inputs, acreages and cropping pattern, number of
stores to be built, roads program, credit, and staffing requirements. Staff-
ing requirements, while being identified specifically for one year, would also
include estimates for each of the following three years to enable a realistic
training program to be carried out.
4.08      At the field level annual work plans will be prepared by each Dis-
trict Crops Officer, in liaison with the District Agricultural Coordinator
and District Stores Supervisors. Initially the BASP Division will give con-
siderable assistance, particularly with regard to technical and staffing
recommendations.
4.09      The plans will be agreed to by the DACs, DCOs and PMC at field
level. Each plan will then be submitted to the BASP Division where it will
be reviewed and coordinated with other plans, and assembled on a 'block'
basis. The BASP annual plans would be finalized by a working party commit-
tee under the chairmanship of the Deputy Permanent Secretary (Technical) MOA
to be established by July 31, 1978. The working party committee would in-
clude the Director-BASP Division, other MOA Division Chiefs, and would meet
monthly to review ongoing activities. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
4.10      After finalization by GOL, the annual work plans would be submitted
to IDA for review and approval sufficiently in advance of the period to which
they apply in order to make adequate budget allocations. Assurances on this
were obtained during negotiations.
4.11      Financial Control.  Within MOA's Accounting and Credit Division,
an internationally recruited Financial Controller would design an accounting
system which would identify the allocation and use of funds from the various
sources and provide efficient cost control for each of the components. He
would also be responsible for the establishment of efficient procedures to
claim reimbursements.
4.12      Credit (Annex 3).  The Financial Controller would also be in charge
of the Central Credit Management Unit to be established within MOAs Accounting
and Credit Division, until these activities are transferred to the Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank (LADB). In 1976 the Government established
LADB as the principal organization for rural credit. One of the most impor-
tant tasks for LADB will be to design a credit policy governing the whole
country taking into account the experience gained by existing credit schemes,
most of which currently operate within the existing area based projects. It



- 14 -
is expected that LADB would ultimately handle all BASP credit requirements.
Since LADB is not operational yet the Central Credit Management Unit will
deal with BASP credit requirements until such time as LADB is able to take
over. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such transfer would
not take place without prior mutual agreement with IDA.
4.13      Credit requirements for each year would be identified in annual
work plans (para 4.07). Credit applications will be forwarded by the respon-
sible District Crops Officer to a credit committee consisting of the Director-
BASP (Chairman), the Financial Controller and the District Crops Officer;
this committee will act on all credit applications.
4.14      Items for which credit would be provided under BASP are detailed
in para. 3.06. Seasonal credit would be provided in kind and interest would
be charged in the form of a 12 percent mark up on the cost of delivered in-
puts. Medium term credit would bear interest at 10 percent per annum and
require a deposit of 50 percent. Long-term credit would also bear interest
at 10 percent per annum but would require a deposit of 25 percent. These
interest rates are in line with current rates in Lesotho. Credit repayments
would be made through a bank account or could be collected through PMC stores
at which on specific dates a credit supervisor would be present. The rates
and margins for credit activities would be established by the Ministry of
Finance after consultation with MOA.
4.15      Extension.  An Extension Adviser, responsible to the Head of MOAs
Crops Division, would work closely with the various DCO's and the BASP Divi-
sion on all matters related to the establishment and implementation of the
Training and Visit Extension system. The ratio of extension officers to
farmers is now about 1:1000. A more appropriate ratio is 1:600 which will
result in a further 150 extension officers to be recruited and trained. The
training component of the Project provides for this increase. Following the
training and visit extension system, the farming families would be divided
into groups of 600 and subgroups of 100. An extension officer would be
responsible for each main group and visit each subgroup on a fixed day of a
two week period.
4.16      Equipment Maintenance and Operation.  To ensure that all the equip-
ment and vehicles provided to MOA under the Project remain in good working
condition and that there are adequate repair facilities for the implementation
of BASP, the workshop facilities established under the Thaba Bosiu Agricul-
tural Development Project would be transferred to MOA's BASP Division, under
an internationally recruited workshop manager.
4.17      Evaluation.  MOA's Planning and Evaluation Division would be respon-
sible to assess the effectiveness of ongoing agricultural activities and pro-
vide guidance in day-to-day operations, in respect of all MOA activities (not
only BASP). With respect to the Project, the Division would be expected to
provide further information on the relative importance of the key services
introduced and particularly identify constraints and propose appropriate
modifications. The Division would be responsible for carrying out a baseline



- 15 -
survey for each of the areas proposed to be included in the Program. It
would also be in charge of preparing future projects. The Project provides
for two internationally recruited Senior Agricultural Economists to work in
the Division. Further details about the Division, and its proposed Work
Schedule, are given in Annex 4. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on the terms of reference for the Division during the Project implementation
period.
4.18      Training (Annex 4).  An internationally recruited Training Adviser,
reporting to the Chief Training and Information Officer of the MOA (and head
of its Extension and Information Division), would work closely with the BASP
Division on all matters concerning the implementation of the training com-
ponent. Five internationally recruited trainers would report to the various
heads of the Farmers Training Centers (para 3.14), which also come under the
jurisdiction of the Extension and Information Division. The training of field
staff and others is expected to be phased as follows:
Year:                       1       2       3        4        5       Total
Supervisory - New                19      89      149     130       8        395
- Repeater           7      24       13        4      -          48
Oxen Contractors                 20      50       80     100      80         330
Tractor Contractors              50      50       50      50      50         250
This phasing of training is consistent with Project needs, and allows for
staff turn over. A large number of the supervisory staff to be trained are
expected to be women, reflecting the major role of women in Lesotho's agri-
cultural sector.
4.19      In the past, Ministry of Agriculture has not participated in staff
interviews conducted by the Civil Service Commission. To ensure the employ-
ment of competent staff and to ensure effective implementation of the pro-
posed program, the Civil Service Commission would consult formally with MOA
with regard to the professional competence of new staff prior to their em-
ployment in accordance with job descriptions prepared by MOA. Appropriate
assurances were obtained during negotiations.
4.20      Reporting.  GOL would submit annual and quarterly reports to all
donors, drawn up by the BASP Division. These reports would include compari-
sons of actual achievements against annual work plans with supporting explana-
tory commentary. Not later than March 1981, GOL would call for a joint review
of BASP by GOL and all the financing agencies to assess its appropriateness
and effectiveness. Assurances as to the above were obtained during negotia-
tions.
4.21      Within three months of completion of disbursements under the IDA
Project, GOL would prepare a Project Completion Report in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. Appropriate assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions.



- 16 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, FARMERS' BENEFITS
AND EFFECT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
A. Production
Yields
5.01      As a result of exploitative farming and continuous erosion, most
lowland soils are of very low fertility. Yields are generally poor through-
out Lesotho. There have been conflicting recommendations on farming prac-
tices which have resulted in confusion among farmers and extension staff.
Until a uniform and coordinated approach to farmer-oriented research is
adopted and suitable regional recommendations become available, simple crop
packages have been established, taking into account the existing fragmentary
evidence in Lesotho. The considerations in designing such packages have
been that they be easy for extension services to explain to farmers and
that they provide farmers an opportunity to improve their agricultural in-
come under the prevailing soil and climatic conditions.
5.02      For each of the five food crops being concentrated on under BASP -
maize, sorghum, wheat, beans and peas - such a package has been utilized
(Annex 5). Under the present, unimproved practices (Model I) the farmer
typically uses his own seed, planted by broadcast. If he applies the pro-
posed technical package (Model II) the farmer would still use his own seed,
but would use a planter; he would also be encouraged to apply fertilizer
in varying amounts, according to crop; finally, for all crops but wheat,
the farmer would be encouraged to use insecticides.
5.03      Adoption of these recommended packages would give rise to
different yield increases in different areas. On average, these yield
effects are expected to be as follows:
Northern Region          Southern Region
(kg/acre)             Model 1       Model 2      Model 1      Model 2
Maize                    180           325          150          275
Sorhum                   225           365          160          295
Wheat                    170           253          140          250
Beans                     75           115           70          105
Peas                      65           110           60          100
5.04      Two kinds of changes in production are likely to result from
the extension of the improved package. Firstly, production should
increase because farmers will adopt the improved productivity package -
the adoption rate, however, is expected to be slow, with full benefits
only being reached by 1990. At full development in the 1990s, it is
assumed that 57,000 of the existing 82,000 farm families using Model I
practices will have adopted Model II practices. The remaining 25,000 are



- 17 -
expected to remain with Model I 1/. Secondly, the above changes in produc-
tion over current levels, do not reflect the full production impact from
Project activities, since, without it, production would decline because of
continuing deterioration of soils. Thus, even farmers expected to 'remain'
at Model I yields represents a positive impact of BASP activities. The fol-
lowing table illustrates BASP crop production achievements to be expected
from the affected farm families.
With Project
Overall
Project
Without Project                   Production
1978/79   2001/02      2001/02       Effect
_-_--- ---000' MTons…------------------
Maize                       25        12           36            24
Sorghum                     20         9           23           14
Wheat                       11         6           19            13
Beans                        6         3           11             8
Peas                         0.1      -             1             1
B. Marketing and Prices (Annex 6)
5.05      Although imports of maize and sorghum would be reduced over time
as a result of BASP, Lesotho would not become self-sufficient in these items.
Marketable surpluses in these products (and peas) would be absorbed in inter-
nal trade through the Produce Marketing Corporation (PMC), and private traders.
Beans and wheat grain are currently exported, and are expected to continue to
be so. South Africa has been the traditional market outlet both for beans and
wheat. As the wheat exports would continue to be insignificant, no problems
are envisaged in their disposal through existing channels. The quality of
the beans produced in Lesotho is also well known to European canners and no
problems are foreseen in disposing of bean surpluses in Europe, should the
need arise.
5.06      Until recently South Africa on which Lesotho depends for its own
pricing, has kept prices of most crops below international prices. This has
been a major disincentive to increasing domestic production in Lesotho. In 1977,
South African prices were increased to the level of international prices. For
the purposes of analysis in this report, international prices have been used
although the sensitivity to a resumption of traditional price relationships
between RSA and international prices is also examined.
1/ Of course, long before the 1990's it is hoped that research will have
demonstrated better technical packages than now proposed; but no such
assumption is made in the analysis of the presently conceived BASP.



- 18 -
5.07      South Africa is the major commercial source of imported agricultural
input requirements. Sulphate of ammonia requirements are bought commercially.
However, recently Lesotho has received all of its 10-15-0 fertilizer in the
form of grants from FAO. The Government has sold this fertilizer to farmers
at a discount of 40 percent against the prevailing South African price. This
report has assumed that the 40 percent subsidy on 10-15-0 will be reduced to
12.5 percent by 1983/84. The control of input prices in Lesotho is disorga-
nized; to ensure better pricing recommendations, it was agreed during nego-
tiations that by September 30, 1978 the National Fertilizer Committee would
be upgraded to include the following representatives: BASP management team,
Chief Crops Officer, Chief ReseaLrch Officer, General Managers, PMC and Coop
Lesotho, Ministry of Finance and representatives from ongoing projects. This
committee would consider, inter alia, subsidy and pricing policy, and fer-
tilizer requirements for Lesotho taking into account appropriate nutrient
requirements.
5.08      During negotiations, it was agreed that the Association would be
consulted on a regular basis on input and output pricing policies to be put
forward to ensure that adequate production incentives are maintained taking
into account forecasts of changes in international prices, marketing and pro-
cessing costs.
C. Farmers Benefits
5.09      Returns to farmers at full development before own labor costs
are shown below (Annex 5). These returns show that incentives for Model I
farmers to move to Model II increase over time as the erosion effects become
more apparent. For this reason, Project analysis assumes an extended adop-
tion period of thirteen years for 57,000 (70 percent) of the existing 82,000
Model I farmers to shift to Model II practices.



- 19 -
Without Project           With Project
Model I            Model I
With Continuing Without Continuing
Erosion            Erosion         Model II
----- -------------Rands-------------------
Northern Region (4.5 acres)
Revenue                              27.8               74.2           127.3
Costs                                 8.9                8.9            48.8
Surplus                              18.9               65.3            78.5
Increase over Model with
further erosion                                          345%            415%
Increase over Model without
further erosion                         -                  -              20%
Southern Region (..0 acres)
Revenue                              39.2              104.7           187.7
Costs                                13.8               13.8            79.0
Surplus                              25.4               90.9           108.7
Increase over Model with
further erosion                                          358%            428%
Increase over Model without
further erosion                                            -              20%
D. Effect on Government Budget (Annex 13)
5.10      The effect of the Project on the Government cash flow is examined
by making two alternative assumptions: (i) that the fertilizer subsidy of
40 percent on the price of 10-15-0 would be reduced to 12.5 percent from the
sixth year; or (ii) that this fertilizer subsidy of 40 percent would be pro-
vided throughout the development period of 25 years. Under assumption (i)
Government's total net outflow would stabilize at R 0.8 million per year
after year 11. Under assumption (ii), the annual cost would stabilize at
R 1.4 million per year after year 11. The additional cost of maintaining
BASP services, under either assumption, is within MOA's expected future
budgets. There is a strong possibility that, due to improvement in tech-
nical packages, the fertilizer subsidy could be reduced or even eliminated.



- 20 -
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION (Annex 14)
Benefits
6.01      The directly measurable benefits of BASP would consist of reversing
the decline in the fertility of arable land resulting in increased production
and marketing of crops (valued at US$11.5 million at full development in
2001/02). Most of the increase in the production of maize, sorghum and peas
would be retained for domestic consumption or marketed in rural areas. Import
requirements for maize and other staple foods would be reduced. All incremen-
tal production of beans and some of the wheat would be exported. However, the
principal benefit likely to arisie out of the project lies in the development of
basic services which would allow Lesotho to take advantage of hoped for future
developments (e.g. USAID Researclh Project results).
6.02      Taking into account only these directly measurable benefits, the
economic rate of return of BASP is estimated at 13 percent over 25 years.
With a 10 percent increase in costs or 10 percent reduction in benefits, the
rate of return would fall by 2 percentage points.
6.03      All costs which relate directly to expected increase in agricultural
production were included in the analysis, including the full costs of central
services other than training. Only the cost of re-training of existing person-
nel has been included; all other training costs are excluded as these relate
to training of newly recruited personnel for whom the cost of training has
been included indirectly through charging the Project with their full, post-
training salaries. The question of shadow pricing of farm labor does not arise
as additional labor required as a result of the Project is extremely small.
Only that percentage of road costs relating to the affected farming families
has been taken into account in the economic analysis. An estimate of incremen-
tal PMC non-field costs has also been included. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits were valued at the official exchange rate. International prices for
inputs and outputs were used in the economic analysis.
Risks
6.04      The Project involves several uncertainties.  These include poor
baseline data and inadequate infc,rmation on farmer response to intervention.
To recognize this latter point a slow rate of farmer acceptance has been used
with full participation not occuring for thirteen years and the analysis also
assumes that 70 percent of target farmers adopt the Model II practices.
Should only 50 percent adopt the complete package then the Project's rate of
return falls to 10 percent.
6.05      The Program has an unusual risk in that commodity prices of the main
trading partner, RSA, have been below international prices until recently.
Currently, RSA and international prices are equivalent, and have been assumed
to remain so. There is a risk that the traditional relationship might be
resumed; IDA has no way of estimating the probability that this would happen.
However, should it happen, the rate of return of the Program would be 8.5
percent.



- 21 -
6.06      Physical implementation of the Program does not entail any signifi-
cant risks as it is based on the considerable experience acquired through the
existing area based projects.
6.07      In spite of the above risks, the Project is necessary as, under the
agricultural condition of Lesotho, it offers the only avenue for developing
the agricultural sector of the country. Without it, there would be no future
for economic agriculture on a broad scale within Lesotho.
Employment
6.08      Approximately 128,000 families would derive benefits as a result of
the Project either directly through increased input supply, credit and exten-
sion services or indirectly through the improved infrastructure. The Program
would provide direct employment for about 500 persons.
Income Distribution
6.09      The majority of the population that would be affected by the Project
consists of low income groups whose average per capita income is less than
US$100. The effect of the Project would be to first prevent this income level
from falling and second to increase the income per capita by about US$6.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following major
points, that:
(a)  the appointments of the following would be made after
consultation with the Association: the Director BASP and
his Adviser, the Workshop Manager, the Financial Controller,
the Extension Adviser, the Senior Agricultural Economists,
and the Training Adviser and the five trainers (para. 3.16);
(b)  that transfer of the Project Credit Fund to LADB would not
take place without prior mutual agreement with the Associa-
tion (para. 4.12);
(c)  a working party committee be established to approve annual
work plans and meet at least monthly to review ongoing
activities (para. 4.09);
(d)  the annual work plan would be submitted to the Association
for approval (para. 4.10);
(e)  not later than March 1981 GOL would call for a joint review
of BASP by GOL and all the financing agencies to assess its
appropriateness and effectiveness (para. 4.20);



- 22 -
(f) the Government of Lesotho's Civil Service Commission
would consult with MOA on the professional competence of
new staff, prior to their appointment (para. 4.19); and
(g) that GOL would regularly consult with IDA on input and
output pricing policies (para. 5.08).
7.02      During negotiations it was agreed that the following be a condi-
tion of effectiveness: that at least 60 percent of other external funds
are effective (para. 3.20).
7.03      The proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of
US$6,000,000 on standard terms to the Kingdom of Lesotho.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Organization and Management
1.        The Ministry of agriculture has suffered from several interrelated
problems: as the responsibility for all major developmental functions has in
the past been delegated to area projects, MOA has not yet developed either
the organization, the manpower capability or the management procedures neces-
sary to carry out its functions effectively. On the contrary, some of its
qualified staff have been attracted to area projects that have been relatively
more autonomous and higher paying, with better prospects for promotions,
leaving many vacancies in MOA. Because of the civil service procedures, the
Ministry has even been unable to discharge some of its least satisfactory
employees, while the autonomy combined with the resources available to the
area projects have led to their developing an image of getting things done.
These differences between the area projects and the Ministry have led to a
frequent tendency to seek creation of new project authorities for implementa-
tion of projects.
2.        Project authorities have, however, often led to as many new admin-
istrative problems as they have solved. For instance, they have resulted in
considerable duplication of responsibilities between the projects and the
existing governmental agencies, often causing fragmentation and lack of co-
ordination in policies and procedures related to the delivery of services.
At the headquarters, there has been concern about different standards related
to autonomy, accountability and resources applied to project authorities
compared to those used for the normal governmental agencies. At the field
level, as the boundaries of area projects have overlapped with the traditional
district administrative boundaries, there has been much confusion over the
relationship with - and authority of - the Minisry's administration over the
management of the area projects, as for instance in the way the area projects
report to the newly created District Agricultural Coordinators in the short
run. It has also created complications in the more permanent transfer of the
functions of area projects to the District Agricultural Administration, and
difficulties in ensuring that the services developed by area projects would
be maintained effectively without the advantages from which the projects have
benefitted.
3.        A complex agricultual strategy involving land use planning, soil
conservation and livestock development which is considered essential for
Lesotho's long-term agricultural development is even less likely than a
program such as BASP to be effective without the necessary emphasis on



ANNEX 1
Page 2
integration of the developmental stage of services with considerations re-
lated to their subsequent maintenance. There is, therefore, clearly a need
to strengthen the organization of the Ministry of Agriculture to plan and
implement future development programs. BASP aims to set the stage for achiev-
ing this objective to strengthening MOA's organization.
4.        The organizational structure together with the technical assistance
being provided under BASP are expected to improve the planning and implement-
ing capability of MOA to some extent. However, it is also necessary to
improve MOA's administrative procedures, which now reduce its efficiency.
These include the relatively small part played by MOA in recruitment and
promotion of its own staff, as a result of which there have been delays in
recruitment, inadequate assessment of the candidates' qualifications for the
positions for which they are subsequently recruited, and little correspondence
of promotions to potential or actual performance. It is recommended that in
the future, MOA should screen the applications of candidates, participate in
their interviews and selection, and develop timetables for recuitment, for
the guidance of the Public Service Commission. Similarly, although the pro-
curement procedures are satisfactory, the bureaucratic delays in tendering
increase the time required for acquisition of goods. For the purposes of
BASP, with adequate safeguards, MOA should be authorized to undertake its
own tendering in accordance with Government procedures. To avoid delays in
disbursements. MOA should, at any time, have adequate funds to cover expend-
itures over the next three months.
November, 1977



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Key Project Headquarters Staff
Terms of Reference
Post:     BASP Director
Duties:
(1)  Responsible to the Deputy Permanent Secretary (Technical)
for ensuring the smooth running of the BASP Project.
(2)  To coordinate all Project activities including those of
the various divisions of MOA involved in the BASP
Project and other organizations.
(3)  To advise the interministerial committee on progress
of the Project and policy matters affecting its
performance.
(4)  To ensure timely availability of information required
for supervision of the Project by IDA and other donors.
(5)  Plan and manage all Project activities and report on
progress.
Post:     Adviser to the Director of BASP (MOA)
Duties:
(1)  Responsible to the Director of BASP.  to support the
BASP Director in all matters related to planning im-
plementation and assessment of the Project.
(2)  To advise the BASP Director on policy matters affect-
ing the Project, on establishing management and pro-
gress reporting systems for the development and
implementation of detailed work plans related to all
Project activities and on ensuring their effective
coordination.
Post:     Agricultural Economist



ANNEX 1
Appendix I
Page 2
Duties:
(1)  To carry out baseline farm management studies.
(2)  To design and establish a baseline data for current planning
and future evaluation.
The survey would cover the following main aspects
(a) Human resources; (b) Cropping and Livestock
patterns and activities; (c) Mechanization; (d)
Markets and Marketing; and (e) Farm incomes.
(3)  Institute studies of the main farming systems.
(4)  Help Research and Extension staff to identify new
crops and Livestock enterprises.
(5)  Assist with defining the overall development strategy
in the region.
(6)  Initiate training programs in farm and business
management for Extension staff, farmers and machinery
owners.
(7)  To collect and analyze data for facilitating an
evaluation of BASP and other Agricultural activi-
ties in the area of his assignment.
Post:     Training Advisor
Duties:
(1)  Responsible to the Chief Training and Information
Officer.
(2)  Along with the Chief Training and Information Officer,
the Training Advisor will report to the Director of
BASP on all matters concerning the training of field
staff including physical development of FTC's, recruit-
ment and work program of trainers, development of the
teaching timetable and courses including curricula, in-
service training and refresher courses.
(3) To liaise with Lesotho Agricultural College and the
recruitment of trainees.



ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 3
(4) Together with the Chief Training and Information Officer,
the Training Advisor would be responsible for the
supervision and control of all training staff, and for
ensuring that the training schedule is observed. He would
as well be responsible for training the Training and Infor-
mation Officer in his duties.
Post:     Extension Adviser
Duties:
(1) Responsible to the Head of the Crops Division.
(2) To report to the Director of BASP and to the Head of the
Crops Division on all matters related to the establishment
and implementation of the Training and Visit extension
system in recruitment of Field Services staff and develop-
ment and implementation of work plans.
Post:     Financial Controller
Duties:
(1) Responsible to the Permanent Secretary (MOA).
(2) Will report to the Director of BASP on all matters con-
cerning Project expenditures and reimbursements in
accordance with IDA and other donor's requirements.
(3) To coordinate all funds from donors and the contribu-
tion of the Government of Lesotho to BASP and will be
responsible for the proper documentation and account-
ing of all transactions, by sources of funding and by
individual project activities.
(4) To advise the Director of BASP of all policy and
other matters affecting the accounting of funds.
(5) To control all funds channelled through the Ministry
of Agriculture to the Produce Marketing Corporation.
(6) To be responsible for the control and guidance of
all accounting staff and systems in the Produce
Marketing Corporation and the Ministry of Agriculture
for establishing accounting procedures in PMC and
Ministry of Agriculture both for their Project related
and the regular budgets, and for the establishment of
the Project credit system in the upgraded accounting
division of the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 4
Post:     Agricultural Development Adviser
Duties:
(1) Responsible to the ]3ASP Director.
(2) Will be adviser to District Crops Officers.
(3) Will coordinate his work with that of Ministry of
Agriculture staff.
(4) Will assist in the initiation of the fact-finding
surveys during the start of the program.
November, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Some of the information on which this Project is based is weak and
involves using institutions, systems and technical packages that are not fully
proven. One of the major objectives of the Project, therefore, is to develop
the planning and evaluation capacity in the MOA to assess effectiveness of the
interventions being introduced under BASP, to provide guidance in day-to-day
implementation and, if necessary, in its modification, and to develop future
projects on the basis of the information generated and lessons learned.
2.        Monitoring would involve collection and analysis of information to:
(a) assess if schedules and targets set out in the program are
being met and to provide warnings on departures, if any; and
(b) to develop information on the program's progress including
its periodic supervision by donors.
3.        Evaluation would involve collection and analysis of information:
(a) to establish a baseline;
(b) to establish -- over the program period -- changes from the
baseline;
(c) to the extent possible, assess the program's role in bring-
ing about these changes;
(d) on the basis of such analysis, to assist in the modifica-
tion of the Project's interventions, should this be
considered necessary; and
(e) to develop future projects.
4.        Distinction between monitoring and evaluation is one of degree rather
than type. Monitoring would be less ambitious than evaluation, constituting
mainly a tool in the management of the program's specific interventions rather
than to learn broader lessons applicable to this or future projects. The
latter would be the objective of evaluation. Monitoring would be given first
priority by the Planning and Evaluation Division. It would involve reporting
physical progress of the program on means, for example, on plans developed,
staff recruited, kilometers of roads improved and maintained, the number of



ANNEX 2
Page 2
stores constructed, number and types of people trained, inputs and credit dis-
tributed, and number of farmers reached through extension. To assess effici-
ency in management, and to identify constraints in implementation, all such
data would be maintained by specific periods and as far as possible, related to
staff use and expenditures; for instance, data on roads improved would be
maintained along with staffing situations of -- and the expenditures incurred
by -- the individual road improvement and maintenance teams. Similarly, data
on fertilizer sold would be maintained by stores or unit areas and by their
staff availability.
5.        Evaluation would be directed to realization of the following
objectives:
(a) to bring about a broad-based increase in the productivity of
input use; and
(b)  to improve institutional and manpower capabilities to ensure
that the necessary services continue to be delivered effec-
tively so that the productivity increase may become self-
sustaining. This would involve, among other things, studies
comparing yield and input levels between farmers' fields and
experimental stations, to examine the presence and the causes
for differences, if any, to provide guidelines to the re-
search and extension systems. It would also involve an
assessment of the distributive impact, i.e., who borrows
credit, buys inputs, receives extension advice and has higher
yields, and to what extent are these related to the individ-
uals' quality of land, other assets and income, social or
educational level, etc.,
6.        The less direct objectives of evaluation are to develop an informa-
tional base on soil types, farming systems, land use patterns, etc. so as to
provide a basis for preparation of future projects.
7.        The planning and evaluation staff being provided under BASP is un-
likely to be able to carry out this latter responsibility adequately if they
are to devote the necessary attention to the monitoring and evaluation func-
tions outlined above that have a more direct bearing on the performance of the
program. However, additional (US trained) local and American staff are
expected to be available to MOA through the Agricultural Sector Survey pro-
posed by USAID. The staff of the Planning and Evaluation Division would work
closely with the Agricultural Sector Survey team to ensure that there is close
coordination and minimum overlap between the two efforts and that information
collected and the lessons learned under BASP, together with USAID's proposed
Survey and the Farming Systems project and any other donor-financed studies,
provide a baiss for preparation of future projects.
8.        Responsibility.  The Planning and Evaluation Division being estab-
lished under BASP would have the primary responsibility for monitoring and



ANNEX 2
Page 3
evaluation, including controlling and supervising the adequacy of all monitor-
ing and evaluation activities in accordance with the requirements of the
Director-BASP, IDA, other donors and Government, and for coordinating other
donor-financed studies with BASP activities. However, recording of physical
progress would be the responsibility of the respective functional managers
within MOA. Data on expenditures would be provided by the Financial Con-
troller. The Planning and Evaluation Division would synthesize and present
this information as necessary. Carrying out evaluation studies would be the
responsibility of the Planning and Evaluation Division.
9.        Methodology.  The methodology for collecting, analyzing and present-
ing monitoring and evaluation data will be the responsibility of the Planning
and Evaluation Division. This will vary according to items. Only broad
guidelines can be offered here. The general considerations that should enter
monitoring and evaluation are as follows:
(a) The purpcse and end-users of any information requirement
should be clearly and precisely defined in advance; the
approach to collection, analysis and reporting should
reflect these as well as resource constraints;
(b) Timeliness is all important. Monitoring data must be
available on time and with sufficient frequency to assist
management in implementing BASP; key baseline data
should be assembled before the Project impact is felt;
and studies in anticipation of future projects will
usually need to be completed, analyzed, and reported
within 3-1/2 years from the start of BASP if they are to
be useful in designing later investments;
(c) The imaginative use of proxies to minimize the need for
collection of "flow" data, and correct specifications of
minimum sample sizes where sampling is an appropriate
approach, are essential for resource conservation;
(d) Analysis and reporting are the difficult parts of moni-
toring and evaluation: the resources available -- in
quantity and quality -- for these tasks will govern the
amount of collection attempted and the approach to
collection;
(e) Simplicity, which does not imply superficiality, should
be the key note.
10.       In developing the overall design of data collection for either moni-
toring or evaluation, the Planning and Evaluation Division should review the
following elements:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(a) specification of the objectives of information collection,
including identification of the end-users;
(b) the study design or approach to information collection
proposed;
(c) the questions to be posed to obtain the necessary data,
which would be included in a questionnaire, or be used
as the basis for informal questioning or for observation.
This should include questions to test the internal con-
sistency of answers;
(d)  the sampling design, suited in size and procedures to
local conditions and the resources available;
(e) the pre-testing procedures including approach and timing;
(f) the organization of fieldwork including recruitment and
training of enumerators, transport and other support
services, and supervision;
(g) data management including checking, coding and tabulation
procedures, and processes for dealing with missing data;
(h) methods of analysis;
(i) level of analysis required;
(j)  reporting of study results including forms of presentation
appropriate to each decision-making end-user, and correc-
tive actions to be taken.
11.       These elements in fact interact and the choice of overall design
will be an iterative process in which the design should be reviewed contin-
uously against the study objectives. For example, logistic and other field
conditions may influence the study design, question list, and sampling; the
data management and analysis resources will certainly influence the design
elements, and indeed, because these activities most frequently are bottle-
necks, it should be general practice to consider constraints on analysis
capacity and reporting requirements before settling the design of data
collection.
12.       Available data gathering techniques range from recording the per-
ceptions on BASP actions and influences of formal committees or informal
groups drawn from the target population, the use of enumerators for case
studies or indepth interviews without attempting to establish statistical
validity; through to systematic quantitative information-gathering tech-
niques within valid sample frames, including wide-ranging opinion surveys of



ANNEX 2
Page 5
greater or lesser depth, or surveys with repeat visits at intervals appro-
priate to the subjects' recall capacity, and over a period sufficient to
capture change over time.
Timing, Reporting and Work Schedule
13.       It follows from its objectives that it would be desirable that the
key staff of the Planning and Evaluation Division should be on-site by the
time BASP activities start and that continuity in it should be maintained
throughout the BASP development. Reporting of monitoring data to management
should probably be monthly and at the least every quarter, and every second
quarter to supervision missions, while progress on evaluation studies, al-
though continuously assessed by the Evaluation Officer, could be done annual-
ly.  A tentative work schedule is presented in Appendix 1.
14.       Staffing and Costs.  The Head of the Planning and Evaluation Divi-
sion will have two Advisors, preferably agricultural economists, with experi-
ence of field work in Africa. Provision is made for international recruitment
to the latter posts with Basotho counterparts to ensure continuity and staff
training. The Division will be supported by a staff of qualified survey
supervisors and senior enumerators. They together will organize field work,
analyze data and draft summary reports, and will run training courses for
enumerators who will be recruited locally on a short-term basis and will
operate under the supervision of the senior enumerators. Provision is also
made for necessary transport and data analysis.
November, 1977



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation - Work Schedule
1.        Details of the Planning and Evaluation Division's work schedule
will be worked out in agreement between the Director - BASP and the Head
of the Planning and Evaluation Division and their advisors. The following
suggest major components of the tasks. The work load will be allocated among
functional managers, the Planning and Evaluation Division under the supervi-
sion of the latter. The major task of the Division, however, will be to
ensure that adequate, timely, monitoring data is available to BASP management.
Familiarization, Recruitment and Training
2.        Recruitment of the two Planning and Evaluation Advisors is expected
to be completed by October 1, 1978. They should immediately assist in recruit-
ment of the remaining staff and would spend the first two months on familiari-
zation of the BASP area and setting up staff training.
Baseline Survey
3.        Before April 1979, a baseline survey of the BASP areas which would
come under implementation in the first two years and those that would be
covered in the latter two years should be designed and carried out. Given the
presence of previous are projects, attempts would have to be made to give
adequate representation to the areas previously covered and not covered by
Projects. The survey should include, but need not be limited to:
(a) a census of families by age, sex, occupation and extent and
type of migration. This should establish the relation-
ship between households, families, and the farming unit;
(b) a sample census of land holdings, cropping patterns, live-
stock, tools and implements;
(c) a sample census of farm/household dwellings, storage, and
domestic hardware;
(d) a questionnaire survey of marketing, labor, and input use
and sources;
(e) a survey on water, access, storage, retail shops, schools,
health and other social service facilities, and traditional
social organizations.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 2
Monitoring
4.        This will comprise:
(a) reporting on critical phases (ordering, design, shipping,
delivery, etc.) by component, of inputs: (i) building
construction: houses, workshops; (ii) procurement of
vehicles, road equipment, planning equipment, other stores;
(iii) procurement of farm inputs, road materials; (iv)
staff recruitment; (v) training programs; (vi) trials
establishment;
(b) reporting physical achievements of outputs: (i) kilometers
of roads constructed or reconstructed by class; (ii) kilo-
meters of road maintained, and/or imporved; (iii) provision
of village storage; (iv) attendance at staff or farmer
training sessions; (v) farmer contacts, numers of adopters
(households); (vi) credit granted, recovered; (vii) input
delivery levels; (viii) expenditures by component; (ix)
provision of counterpart funds; (x) vehicle mileages, days
off-road; (xi) trials completed.
Evaluation
5.        Included in the in-depth measurement of BASP effects will be:
(a) areas under crops and their changes;
(b) adoption of improved practices by farmers;
(c) trial results and their analyses;
(d) farmers' crop yields and their changes;
(e) changes in road usage.
6.        Evaluation will also be required to assess the validity of implicit
and explicit assumptions and exogenous factors influencing performance:
(a) input and output prices;
(b) market availability;
(c) equipment capacities and downtime;
(d) labor productivity;
(e) farmer reaction and response;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
(f) weather conditions; and
(g) political influences including effectiveness of the
local, traditional and parastatal organizations.
7.        A start would also be made, largely by use of proxies and indica-
tors, in measuring BASP impacts which will be the main concern of ex-post
evaluation:
(a) farmer incomes and expenditure patterns and changes;
(b) nutritional status changes;
(c) soil condition changes;
(d) farmers' attitudes;
(e) ecological impact of the BASP; and
(f) availability of planning data and planning and implemen-
tation capacity in the post-Project period.
8.        The unit will provide the expertise to assist Government in the
preparation of a Project Completion Report (PCR), in accordance with Bank/
IDA guidelines, within six months of the completion of disbursements under
the IDA Project. The PCR will review the implementation of BASP and its
impact on the Region.
November, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
A. General
1.        Agricultural credit in Lesotho is available through a number of
channels including commercial banks, credit unions, thrift and credit soci-
eties, farmers' associations, agricultural contractors, and most importnat,
the area-based projects. Co-op Lesotho Ltd. provides seasonal credit and
the Agricultural Development Fund (ADF) gives short- and medium-term loans
through farmers' associations. Apart from the commercial banks and area-
based projects, most of the credit administration are poorly managed and
have poor repayment records. Most are in financial difficulties.
2.        In the 1970 agricultural census, 96% of farmers responding re-
ported that they had no access to any credit facilities. Thus in 1972, Gov-
ernment, recognizing the need for better credit facilities, established the
Government-owned Lesotho Bank. The Bank was designed to provide credit on
a nationwide scale to small local businessmen as well as farmers, and was
to take over all existing agricultural credit institutions. However, owing
to a lack of cooperation from these institutions and due to the fact that
the attention of the management of the new Lesotho Bank was diverted to the
Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC), no progress has been made
with establishing a suitable credit institution for agriculture. Credit for
the three largest area-based projects is administered by Project Authorities.
3.        A new attempt is now being made to provide agricultural credit
throughout the country. The Government of Lesotho has thus promulgated the
"Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank Act 1976" which provides for the es-
tablishment of the Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank (LADB) to facilitate
and promote agricultural development having due regard to the general economic
interests of the country and to act as an apex organization for mobilizing
rural savings and as a central source of agricultural credit. The Act also
provides for LADB to absorb the assets and liabilities of the Agricultural
Development Fund.
4.        In general, seasonal credit does not seem to be as important in
Lesotho as in many other countries, due to the substantial remittance of
migrant laborers and the existing system of informal credit by agricultural
contractors under sharecropping agreements. Still, in the Khomokhoana
project, where no downpayment is required in order to obtain seasonal credit,
credit demand has been much stronger than in the Thaba Bosiu area where a
30% downpayment is required. Demand for medium- and long-term credit is,
however, considerable.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        One of the most important tasks for LADB will be the design of
a credit policy governing the whole country. Such policy should take into
account the experience and problems encountered by existing credit schemes.
Four of the most important and interrelated factors are the following:
(i) The high risk of crop failure;
(ii)  farmers lack of understanding the credit concept;
(iii)  the better repayment record from credit extended for
cash crops; and
(iv)  the increase in incomes from off-farm occupation.
(i) In credit repayment, there are delays caused by reasons
beyond the controls of the farmer. Due to erratic
weather changes, there is the risk of crop failure.
This can best be demonstrated by experience in the
Leribe Project area; in the period 1970-73 drought
conditions existed in one winter and one summer season,
and hail damaged winter crops in two out of the four
seasons. Understandably, it is difficult for Lesotho
farmers to be induced to intensify the use of credit
for inputs as in the case of countries with more
favorable climatic conditions. Experience has shown
that it is difficult to recover advances and in
many instances ilt had to be written off altogether.
(ii) Credit schemes have refrained from prosecuting default-
ing farmers and as a result, many farmers adopted the
concept that credit has to be repaid only in good
years and that the highest penalty for default is the
discontinuation of credit.
(iii) Drawing again on the experience of the Leribe Project
and also the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project,
it has observed that repayment rates of credit for
cash crops are much better than credit extended for
subsistence crops.
(iv) Thaba Bosiu Rura:L Development Project surveys indicate
that in 1973-74, about 76% of the farm households had
members employed in off-farm occupations and 62% had
members employed in the RSA, resulting in about 80%
of the total net income per household coming from out-
side farm activities. The average cash earnings by a
mine worker in the RSA is estimated to be over R 900
p.a.  Such remittances enable most farm households to
purchase inputs in cash.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
B. Credit Channels and Institutions
(a) Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project (Credit 361-LSO)
7.        Seasonal credit is being issued to the extent of two-thirds of the
input of cash crops and beans, potatoes, peas, wheat and fodder with interest
at 12% p.a. Medium-term credit is available for 50% of the cost of farm
implements at an interest rate of 10% p.a. Repayment terms are one year on
items valued at less than R 100 and up to three years for more costly pur-
chases. Long-term credit is available for up to 75% of the cost of tractors
and tractor implements; the interest rate is 10% p.a. and the maximum repay-
ment period is five years. During the year ending March 1976, the credit
program was expanded. Seasonal credit of up to R 300 is given to tractor
contractors. Land preparation is financed for half the cost of planting
winter crops and oxen contractors receive money for winter feeding. In
addition to further dairy activities, credit is issued for dairy cows to
cover up to two-thirds of the cost of the animal plus the first six months
feed. The repayment period is five years.
8.        The insignificance of seasonal credit is evident from the small
number of participants in the scheme. In the 1975-76 winter season, credit
was issued to 20 farmers with a total of R 138, whereas the 1975-76 summer
season had 101 farmers (about 1% of those eligible) with R 1,220. Medium-
term credit is in much stronger demand. By the end of the FY ending March
1976 a total of R 12,792 had been issued covering 278 agreements. Also,
during the same year, 23 applications for funds to purchase tractors were
approved resulting in credit being granted for a total of R 68,881. Repay-
ments are close to 100%.
(b) Khomokhoana Rural Development Project
9.        The Khomokhoana Project is a continuation of the Leribe pilot
project, financed by SIDA and administered by UNDP/FAO. Total credit issued
since 1971 amounts to about R 150,000 of which about 1/3 (R 56,000) was for
seasonal credit. The latest records indicated a delinquency rate of only
0.3%. Seasonal credit is being issued at 12% p.a. interest and only granted
in kind. Medium-term loans attract interest at the rate of 10% p.a. Seasonal
credit is also granted to Farmers' Associations for direct on-lending to
members; a service charge is applied based on the ruling interest rate.
(c) Senqu River Agricultural Extension Project
10.       The Senqu Project started with the assistance of UNDP/FAO in Octo-
ber 1972 in response to the very difficult agricultural problems of the
southern lowlands, foothills and mountain area. The provision of seasonal
and medium-term credit is available for crop production, purchase of
tractors, improvement of livestock and purchase of irrigation equipment.
Actual credit started only about 2 years after inception of the project with



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the establishment of a revolving fund of R 100,000 to cover the various
activities. However, repayment rates are so poor (53%) that R 30,000 have
already been written off. The project now concentrates on farmers' asso-
ciations and assists them with integrated packages of improved farm inputs
on consolidated holdings farmed as a single unit. Credit is provided in
kind and repayment deducted from the sale of produce which is marketed by
the project. This ensures the best possible credit repayment.
(d) Co-op Lesotho Limited
11.       Co-op Lesotho is a secondary cooperative organization which in
1972, took over the assets of the Finance and Marketing Cooperative Union of
Lesotho. Membership in Co-op Lesotho is open to cooperative societies such
as credit and savings societies, and the Lesotho Government is the main
shareholder, holding about 4/5 of the shares.
12.       Co-op Lesotho has been a source of agricultural credit in the
form of farm inputs and provides marketing services to thrift and credit
societies - there are 88 thrift and credit societies recorded as having
savings and loans with Co-op Lesotho but the active members number only about
30. Societies may be granted up) to a maximum of twice the value of savings
deposited, which is the same principle as the societies apply when disburs-
ing loans to individual farmers.. This arrangement ensures that, on the one
hand, member societies first raise their own funds and, on the other hand,
farmers' savings are partly used as a security against loans extended.
Loans are presently made at 9% interest p.a. Societies lend to their mem-
bers at 12% p.a. Total loans outstanding in April 1975 were R 63,000.
13.       Co-op Lesotho has also been responsible for the procurement and
distribution of seasonal inputs. For this purpose, it has a number of
depots located throughout the country. Under BASP, it is proposed that
the Produce Marketing Corporation would handle inputs and an accounting
firm is presently engaged in determining which of Co-op Lesotho's assets
should be transferred to PMC.
(e) Agricultural Development Fund (ADF)
14.       The Agricultural Development Fund (ADF) was established in 1962
and started operations in 1965. It is administered directly by the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) channelling short- and medium-term credit through the
extension service to farmers' associations, using mainly funds obtained
through foreign aid, especially from voluntary agencies. Prior to the 1975-
76 season, it used to make credit available for all crops to associations
that had a 75% repayment record on the previous season with a deposit re-
quirement of 10%. ADF has now limited its credit to beans, potatoes and
fertilizers, against a 50% deposit and a 100% repayment record for the pre-
vious season.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
15.       In general, repayments are very poor.  Over the last few years,
40% of credit was recovered in the first year, an additional 25% thereafter
and the rest was written off.
(f) Agricultural Contractors' Share-cropping
16.       A very substantial and effective form of seasonal credit is pro-
vided by private contractors who carry out agreed cultivation for land
holders using either animals (oxen) or tractors with and without the supply
of inputs such as fertilizers and seed for a share of the crop, generally a
third or a half according to input. This kind of arrangement is said to be
in use in as much as 15% of the land in some areas. It is difficult to es-
tablish the financial value involved, but an estimate in the Khomokhoana
project gives an amount of about R 400,000 p.a. compared-to R 40,000 provided
by the project. This service is of great help to those households owning
land but lacking equipment and labor: mainly widows or wives whose husbands
work in the RSA.
(g) Lesotho Agricultural Development (LADB)
17.       The new apex organization for agricultural credit should begin
operations in 1978. Its initial capital will probably be of the order of
R 2.2 million and, excepting provision for acquiring extra capital, its
charter requires it to be self-sustaining. This means it would charge mar-
ket rates of interest (unless subsidized by Government) and seek full recov-
ery of loans. LADB is not expected to be able to handle credit operations
at the time when BASP operations start and as an interim solution, BASP
credit would be handled by a small section attached to MOA.
(h) Credit Unions
18.       There are forty-eight Credit Union Cooperative Societies which
federate into the Lesotho Cooperative Credit League (LCCUL). The League
is administered by a manager working under the supervision of an elected
board of twelve directors. The league provided a central financing mech-
anism for its member societies and pays 5% interest on member unions' de-
posits. The league organizes regular courses and seminars for the training
of the committee members of the societies. These primary societies provide
saving and loan services to their individual members - 70% of the loans are
estimated to be used for agricultural purposes. The forty-eight Credit
Union Societies have a total membership of over 14,000. They have total
assets of about R 400,000 including outstanding loans of R 250,000. The
largest society has 2,020 members and the smallest 74, with an average of
92. Credit Unions make loans available at an interest rate of 12% p.a.
Five societies have qualified managers who receive salaries under a Tech-
nical Assistance program through the Department of Cooperatives.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(i) Lesotho Credit Union Scheme for Agriculture (LECUSA)
19.       LECUSA was established in 1970 at the initiative of the Catholic
Relief Service, the Oxford Relief Fund (OXFAM) and the University of Botswana,
Lesotho and Swaziland extension service. It was started in seventeen of the
forty-eight societies. The seventeen societies operate about 28 tractors
which are tied to a package farm input deal. An individual credit union
member obtains a loan through his local CUSA committee of the society to pay
for tractor services and inputs. Measures to channel and mobilize credit
union member savings into production credit were taken in the form of a pilot
project. A grant from USAID of US$30,000 and the UN Capital Development Fund
of US$100,000 have enabled the league to promote a Directed Agricultural Pro-
duction Credit Program (D.A.P.C.). Under this scheme which is being started
in two credit unions, credit is made available to members under close super-
vision for agricultural production enterprises principally in the intensive
livestock sector. The league employs a staff of ten, of which six are in
the head office. Two auditors and two educationalists work in the field.
It is hoped to recruit locally an additional finance expert, four auditors,
four trainers, one Directed Agricultural Production Credit specialist, to-
gether with supporting staff, including one mechanic.
(j) Thrift and Credit Societies
20.       There are about 130 thrift and credit societies which have been
registered as cooperatives, 46 of which are estimated by the MOA Division for
Cooperatives to be active. These active societies currently have R 26,000 of
savings deposited with Co-op Lesotho and R 48,000 in loans outstanding. Sav-
ings are utilized as security for purchase of agricultural inputs (particu-
larly fertilizer and seed) from Co-op Lesotho.
(k) Commercial Banks
21.       The three commercial banks currently provide nearly two-thirds of
all agricultural credit. A good portion of this lending, however, is in the
form of working capital advances to Thaba Bosiu Project, Co-op Lesotho, and
the Produce Marketing Corporation to finance the working capital requirements
of their activities. The balance of the banks lending to agriculture tends
to be short period advances to well-known customers or to customers who can
provide 100% security in the form of fixed deposits, and the like. Lending
is mainly to individuals, many of whom work in Maseru and have interests in
the countryside, but there is also some lending to well-managed farmers'
associations. Going commercial rates of interest are charged, but the rates
vary with the assessed risk.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
C. Basic Agricultural Services Project
22.       The proposed organization of BASP provides for the credit admini-
stration to be managed by a special section within the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. Since LADB will not be operational to handle this task, a section
would be established under the Deputy Permanent Secretary (Admin.) with the
staff to be employed on behalf of LADB. In due course, when LADB is in the
position to take over the various credit activities, this section would
transfer to LADB and could form the nucleus for countrywide operations.
23.       A credit committee would oversee approval of credit applications
and provide overall guidance in the formulation of credit policies. A
summary of "Policies and Procedures for Credit Operations," which may be
amended to suit specific crops and other requirements is attached as Appen-
dix 1.
24.       The Financial Controller would be responsible for the section.
Fully staffed, the section is expected to consist of the following:
2 Credit Supervisors
I Accountant
2 Junior Accountants
4 Clerks and
20 Credit Assistants (one per unit).
With the exception of the credit assistants who would operate at the field
level and report to the Credit Supervisor through the District Agricultural
Coordinator (DAC), all staff would be stationed at headquarters in Maseru.
25.       The actual flow of credit applications is expected to be as
follows:
I.   Seasonal Credit
(i) farmer would complete the application;
(ii) crop assistant would countersign in concurrence with
type and quantity of inputs;
(iii) credit assistants would countersign for approval and
confirmation of eligibility and compliance with stipu-
lations;
(iv) farmer would submit applications to the farmers' asso-
ciation for countersignature;
(v)  the farmers' association would be responsible for screen-
ing applications and would submit applications to credit
section through the DACs office;



ANNEX 3
Page 8
(vi)  if the application is disapproved, notification would
be made to the farmer through the DACs office and the
farmers' association;
(viii)  if the application is approved, processing would be done
by the credit section with a copy to PMC;
(ix)  PMC provides inputs against receipt and submits claims to
the credit section.
II. Medium- and Long-Term Credit
(i)  applicant would complete application and submit it to
the credit section through the DAC's office;
(ii)  credit committee would either approve or disapprove;
(iii) in case of disapproval, notification would be sent to
applicants through the DAC's office;
(iv)  if approved, processing of application would be done by
the credit section;
(v)  notification to applicants and dealers would be made re-
garding payment procedures.
26.       Credit repayments would be made by the farmers or farmers' associ-
ations through a bank account or could be collected through PMC stores or by
an authorized dealer for a small service charge.
Seasonal Credit
27.       In order to estimate the requirements for seasonal credit on the
basis of experience of the existing projects, it has been assumed that only
10% of the participating farmers would not have the funds available for the
required inputs. Inputs would only be provided in kind with a mark-up of
12%. No downpayments would be required and credit would be channeled only
through farmer's associations which would be responsible for repayments. If
the repayment slides below 90%, associations would disqualify for credit to
its members. BASP makes provision to assist such associations to keep proper
records and, in due course, it is expected that they would develop a system
whereby funds would be on-lent to them. A summary of projected incremental
seasonal credit requirements is in Table 1.
28.       Medium-term credit would be provided for agricultural equipment
and various farm implements as well as draft animals. The value of this
type of credit is expected to rise from R 29,000 in Year I to R 140,000 in
Year 5. Details of the projected requirements are given in Table 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
29.       Long-term credit is considered very important, mainly for the pur-
chase of tractors and related equipment which play an important role in the
cultivation of crops. Given Lesotho's unique labor situation and GOL's in-
terest in the establishment of a Government tractor hire service, such
financing to private contractors is considered essential. It would improve
timeliness of farming operations and avoid hiring of foreign tractor con-
tractors which is now prevalent. The number of tractors to be purchased
under BASP is estimated to be 250 at a base cost of R 1.9 million. Details
are given in Table 3.
30.       BASP Credit Fund.  Table 4 summarizes the cash flow of the credit
components discussed in the previous paragraphs.
31.       Farmers' Contributions.  The farmers contribution to the medium-
and long-term credit would consist of their downpayments. A summary of the
value of such contributions to BASP is as follows:
- in Rand -
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5    Total.
Medium-term credit         29,040    72,600    116,160    145,200    139,700  502,700
Long-term credit          94,500    94,500       94,500      94,500     94,500  472,500
123,540   167,100    210,660    239,700    234,200  975,200



ANNEX 3
Appendix I
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTIJRAL SERVICES PROJECT
Policies and Procedures for Credit Operations
1.        Credit would be extended for the following categories:
(i) seasonal inputs for wheat, maize, sorghum, beans, and peas,
including possibly crop insurance; and land preparation;
(ii) agricultural equipment;
(iii) tractors and tractor equipment; and draft animals.
2.        Credit would be channelled through the credit section operating
within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) until such time as the Lesotho
Agricultural Development Bank (LADB) is ready to absorb the section. Sep-
arate accounts would be kept, reconciling all credit transations with the
source of funds.
3.        Credit supervision would be under the direction of the credit sup-
ervisors who would report to the Financial Controller in MOA.
4.   (a)  Seasonal credit for inputs would only be issued in kind
and in the beginning through farmers' associations against
their guarantee and at a later stage to farmers associations
for on-lending. Repayment responsibility would rest with
the associations. If overall repayment slides below 90X,
all of its members would disqualify for further receipt
of credit.
(b) Medium- and long-term credit would be issued to individuals
and farmers' associations in cash or kind as appropriate.
5.   (a)  The eligibility of creditors would be assessed by the field
staff and approved by a credit committee.
(b) Credit would only be approved if the applicant has repaid
previous debts either with BASP or any of the area-based
projects;
(c) The approval of credit is conditional on all produce being
marketed through channels designated by BASP/PMC until such
time as the money is fully repaid;
(d) All borrowers much follow farmings methods in accordance
with the BASP concept.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
(e) No deposits are required for seasonal credit but the credit
committee reserves the right to limit the size;
(f) Medium-term credit requires a downpayment of 50% and long-term
credit of 25%.
(g) Seasonal credit for inputs would be issued in kind at 12%
mark-up with the minimum of R 20;
(h) Medium-term credit would be issued at 10% interest p.a. repay-
able over a period not to exceed 3 years;
(i) Long-term credit would be issued at 10% interest p.a. repayable
over a period not to exceed 5 years;
(j) The end-utser in the case of seasonal credit for inputs must be
a resident farmer who has the right to farm sufficient land to
utilize the credit;
(k) Successful applicants for tractors (usually agricultural con-
tractors) must (i) have completed an approved training course
to drive and handle such machinery or employ a properly trained
tractor driver; (ii) give priority services to farmers parti-
cipating in BASP; (iii) agree to have his equipment regularly
serviced; and (iv) demonstrate that the tractor would be uti-
lized for a minimum of 800 hours per year.
(1) successful applicants for draft-oxen must have participated
in an oxen training course.
November, 1977



LES*lTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Estimates of Incremental Seasonal Inputs and Credit Requirements
(Rand)
Year 1             Y        2         Year 3             Year 4              Year 5             Total                   Foriaizn Exchnene
Inputs                                       1977/78            1978/79            1979/80            1980/81             1981/82                                 %                     Total
Seed
Commercial seed - maize 2---                                      3000               7000                9000              11,000            30,000               90                    27,000
- sorghum                                         ---                ---                 --- ___
- wheat                       ---                1000               4000               9000               11,000            25,000              90                     22,500
- beans                       ---                5000              27000              34000               38,000           104,000              90                     93,600
- peas                                           1000               1000               3000                2 000             7 000              90                      6 300
Sub-total                           ---               10000              39000               55000              62,000                                g9
Farmers' seed 21                              --                 11000              53000               550                61oo 00    _     4Q. 00                --_____
Total Seed                          ---               21000               92000             110000             123,000            346,000              43                    149,400
Insecticides 21                                ---                 ---               3000                4000               5,000            12,000               90                     10,800
Fertilizer 1/                                  ___               52000             143000             216000              283,000           694,ooo 00                                  624,600
Total value of inputs                      ---              73000              238000             330000                 ,             1052,000              74                    784,800
Credit Requirements
Inputs                                         ---                6200              18500              27500               35,ooo
Oxen contractors 3/                    (80)   22 800    (200)  57000         (320)  91200        (320) 91200       (200)   57,000
22,800             3200             109700             118700               92,000
Mark-up (12'%)                                  2;736             7584              13164               14244              11,040
Volume of repayments               -5,53                         70784             14                                      03,040
21 For details see Annex 13,Table 12.
J 10% of total value of inputs excluding farmers seed.
3/ For details see Annex 6.
Repayments assumed to be received in the following year.
February 14, 1978
H te



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Medium-Term Credit Requirements
(Rand)
Unit Cost            Year 1             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4              Year 5             Total                   Forein yachanse
1977/78           1978/79             1979/80            19807              1981/82                                  %                     Total
oxen contractor's equipment 1/                   500          (20)   10,000      (50)   25,000       (80)   40,000      (100)   50,000    (80)    40,000            165,000               90                 148,500
Cultivatorq 2/                                    70          (80)    5,600      (200)  14,000       (320)  22,400      (400)   28,000    (400)   28,000             98,000               90                  88,200
Planters' 2120                                                (80)    9,600      (200)  24,000       (320)  38,400      (400)   48,000    (400)   48,000             168,000              90                 151,200
Scotch carts 2/                                  320          (80)   25,600      (200)  64,000       (320) 102,400      (400)  128,000    (400)  128,000            448,000               90                 403,200
Ploughs pe                                        s 50        (40)    2,000      (100)   5,000       (160)   8,000      (200)   10,000    (200)   10,000              35,000              90                  31,500
Other/spares 4Z                                                        5,280             13,200             21,120               26.400             25,400            91,400              90                  82,260
Total value                                                          58,080             145,200            232,320              290,400            279,400        1,005,400               90                 904,860
Less down payments 2/                                                29,040              72.600            116,160              145,200            139,700
Credit required                                                      29,040              72,600            116,160              145,200            139,700
Add 107, p.a. interest 6/                                              6.098             15.246             24.394               30.492             29,337
Amount to be repaid                                                  35,138              87,846            140.554              175,692            169,037
Spread of repayment                                                    ---               11,713             11,713               11,712             29,282            46,852          58,564                  S6,345
over 3 years                                                       ---                 ---               29,282               29,282             46,851            58,564          56,346                   ---
______            _____-              46.851              58.564           56.346            ---                     --
11.713             40.995              87.845             134.697          161.762          114.910                  56.345
1/ Details in Annex 6
2/ 20 per annum per unit
3/ 10 per annum per unit
4/ 10% of medium-term credit requirements
5/ 50%
6/ Interest at 10% p.a. on unpaid balance
February 14, 1978



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Projec,
Long-Term Credit Requirements
(Rand)
ViPit Cost        Year 1              Year 2               Year 3             Year 4            Year s                                                        Foreign Exchapge
1C77/78             ,7,7/7o             1Q7Q0/80            1 980 /81         1981/82                                                                         Total
Tractors                        5,300      (25) 132,500        (25) 132,500        (25) 132,500      (25)  132,500    (25)   132,500                                662,500            go                    59%,250
Spares (20% of tractor value)  l,o60       (25)  26,500        (25)  26,500        (25)  26,500      (25)   26,500    (25)    26,500                                132,500            90                    119,250
Tractors                        7,300      (25) 182,500        (25) 182,500        (25) 182,500      (25)  182,500    (25)   182,500                                912,500            90                    82],250
Spares (20% of trctor value)  1,46         (25)  36500         (25)  36,500        (25)  36 500      (25)   36,500    (25)    36 500                                182,500            90                    _625
Total Value                       378,000            378,000              37Y,00             378,000            378,000                            1,890,000             90                 1,701,000
Less contractors/farmers                          94.500             94,500              94,500              94.500             94,500
participation (25%)
Net Credit Required                              283,500            283,500             283,500             283,500            283,500
Add 10i interest 1/                               90,153             90,153              90,153              90,153             90,153
Amount to be repaid by
contractors/farmers                              373,653            373,653             373,653             373,653            373,653
Spread of repayment                                --74,731                              74,731              74,731             7~4,730            74,730            74,730          74,730      74,730      74,730
over 5 years                                         _--                                 74,731              74,731             74 731            74,730             74,730          74,730      74,730        ---
--               74,731             74,731            74,731             74,731          74,731        ---        ---
_                  _--              74,731            74,731             74,731             --         ---         ---
_________        ~~~--                --                 --                  --       ~      74 731      ~        --              --
74,731             149,462            224,193                  23            7313              298.92          224,191    149,460       74,730
1/ Interest at 10% p.a. on unpaid balance
February 14, 1978



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Total Credit Cash Flow
(Rand)
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4            Year               Year 6
1977/78            1978/79            1979/80            1980/81           1981/82            1982/83
Sources of Funds
New Funds Required                               341.340             312.919           261.181            134.243              ---
Credit repayments:
Seasonal                                           ---               25.536             70.784            122.864            132.944            103.040
Medium-term                                        ---                11.713            40.995             87.845            134.697            161.762
Long-term                                          ---                74.731           149.462            224.193            298.923            373.653
__Ill. 90         261.241            434.902            572724             638455
Less bad debts i/_---                                     _7,599                        13,02              21,745             28,636             31.923
---              106,3bl            248,179           413,157            566,564            606,532
Funds available for lending                     ,341,34o             419,300           50,60              547,400            566,564            606,532
Utilization of Funds
Seasonal                                          22,800             63,200            109,700            118,700             92,000
Medium-term                                       29,o40              72,600           116,160            145,200            139,700
Long-term                                        283 500            283,500            283,500            283,500            283,500
Total required                                   241.340             419,300           509,360            547,400            515,200
Unspent balance                                              ---                ---                          ---              51,364
341,340            419.300            509,360            547,400           566 564
Bad debt provision of 5% on seasonal, medium and long term credit.
February 14, 1978



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Prolect
Credit Termsof Area-Based Projects
Seasonal Credit               Medium Term Credit                       Long Term Credit
(up to 3 years)                       tUp to 5 Years)
Borrowers      Interest    Borrowers    Interest  Repayment    Borrowers          Interest   Repayment
Contribution   Rate         Contribution   Rate       Period       Sontribution   Rate          Period
Thaba Bosiu                         30%         12% p.a.11   50%.        10% p.a.  1 year for!  Ain. of 25%   LO% p.a.           5 years
Rural Development Project                                                           items under   for
R100;         rractors &
3 years    rractor  Lmplements;
for items    ip to 1/3        10% p.a.      5 years
over R100          for
lairy cows
Khomokhoana Rural                  Nil          12Z p.a.3V   10%         10% p.a.  farm implement  10%            10% p.a.       5 years-
Development Project                                                                 up to 2 years;
irrigation
equipment,
storage, dairy
cows. feedlot
facilities
up to 3 years
Senqu River Agricultural           Nil          12% p.a.      Nil        10% p.a.  up to 3 years   Nil            10% p.a.       5 years
Extension Project
1/  Seasonal Credit is issued for cash crops, beans, potatoes, peas, wheat, fodder, up to R300 for tractor contractors,
land preparation, Winter feeding for oxen contractors; minimum of R10 - maximum R300.
2/  Medium-term credit is issued for farm implements.
3/  Seasonal Credit for feeder cattle, feed for beef feediocs; inputs and hail insurance .or winter wheat; inputs for beans,
commercial potatoe   growing or other high value intensive crops; inputs for growing perennial fodders during first
year; contingency lending for establishing farmers-AssociAtions.
4/  Long term credit for purchase of tractors, fodder production and harvest equipment.
February 14, 1978
rD 



ANNEX 4
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Training
A. Background
1.        Several institutions within the Ministries of Agriculture, Educa-
tion, Health, Interior and the Prime Minister's office carry out training in
Lesotho. These include the Lesotho Agricultural College, the Farmer Train-
ing Centers under the Agricultural Extension Service, the Farmer Training
and Nutrition Centers and the Young Farmers' Clubs (MOA); the National Univer-
sity of Lesotho, the Commercial Training Institute, the Lerotholi Technical
Institute, other technical and vocational schools, and the Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center (MOE); the nurse training projects and nurses' orientation
courses (MOH); training courses for chiefs and community and rural develop-
ment (MOI); and the Lesotho Institute of Public Administration (Prime Min-
ister's office). Although the range of training facilities in Lesotho is
being widened, there are many fields in which training can only be obtained
abroad, while in other cases the trainees' deficient secondary-school
education makes the existing specialized training facilities ineffective.
Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC)
2.        The Lesotho Agricultural College is one of the most important local
training facilities. LAC acts as the training center for all junior field
extension staff employed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural
Development Projects. It runs a two-year certificate course in General
Agriculture for both men and women and a two-year certificate course in Rural
Domestic Economy for women only. The minimum entry requirement for these
courses is a junior certificate (JC). The past output of the Lesotho Agri-
cultural College has been as follows:
Total
1971    1972      1973     1974    1975    1971-75
Certificate in
Agriculture         21      17        19       13       16       86
The annual output has been far short of MOA's requirement, with the result
that there is a large number of vacancies in certificate-level entry posts.
LAC's expansion has been constrained by its physical capacity, staff avail-
ability and insufficient recurrent financing. The College has nevertheless
increased its intake substantially, and in conjunction with the National Uni-
versity of Lesotho, plans to launch a diploma course by 1978. The minimum
entry requirement of this course would be a Cambridge Overseas School Certi-
ficate (COSC). The projected output of certificate and diploma holders from
Lesotho Agricultural College is as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Total
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980   1976-80
Certificate in
Agriculture           32        35        46       60        60      233
Diploma in
Agriculture                --             --       20        20       40
Even these targets are far short of the requirements, particularly in view
of the need for a large number of extension staff for BASP.
3.        Apart from the shortage of facilities, expansion of the output
is constrained by the difficulties in recruiting qualified school trainees
for the certificate course, in spite of a recent massive recruitment effort.
Most students would prefer to attend a general secondary school, or, if they
cannot find a place there, the Lerotholi Technical Institute. Only as a
last resort do they accept to go to the LAC. This problem is partly related
to the shortage of local training officers. Except in area projects, there
has also not been much effort to recruit women for field positions, although
experience indicates that far fewer young women migrate to South Africa for
employment after training than do men. A majority of women who remain in
rural areas go to school. Data indicate that in parts of Lesotho, more women
complete a secondary-school education than do men. (This can be attributed
in part to the fact that women arie not responsible for such traditional tasks
as herding cattle, one factor which keeps young boys out of school). Despite
the limited effort to recruit women, in recent years female students have
outnumbered male students in LAC. Of the 46 students admitted to the cer-
tificate course in 1976, 26 were women. If the certificate course were to
be decentralized, and if training were to be offered in a range of subject
matter at FTCs (as is proposed under the Project), even more women (includ-
ing those with families) might be recruited. The main constraint with this
scheme would not be lack of facilities but rather lack of qualified teaching
staff.
National University of Lesotho
4.        The National University of Lesotho separated in October 1975 from
the former tripatriate university of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland. No
degree in agriculture is presently offered at NUL; candidates for such a
degree must be trained abroad.
Training Courses Abroad
5.        Eighty-eight officers of the MOA were studying abroad in October
1976. The Central Planning and De!velopment Office estimates that about 100
trainees would need to be in training abroad in agriculture at any given
time during the period 1975-80. Such large numbers of temporary vacancies



ANNEX 4
Page 3
would, however, hamper the administration of ongoing agricultural programs.
It is therefore to be hoped that the diploma course can be established at
the LAC as soon as possible and that a Faculty of Agriculture can be created
at the NUL in the not-too-distant future. With such facilities, agricultural
staff could undergo in-service training without having to leave Lesotho for
long periods.
Lesotho Institute of Public Administration and Commercial Training Institute
6.        The Lesotho Institute of Public Administration carries out train-
ing for the public sector in several areas: management, supervision, account-
ing, secretarial skills, operative skills and induction. The accounting
section includes training for audit service and for all posts with financial
responsibility. The secretarial category covers all posts involving typing,
shorthand, and secretarial services. The operative category trains registry
clerks, telephone operators, and messengers. The Commercial Training In-
stitute (CTI) being completed under the first IDA-assisted education project,
and attached to the. LTI will train people in similar areas for the private
sector. The Second Five-Year Plan provides for an initial intake of 30
persons in each field; this intake would be raised to 100 persons per annum at
the end of the Second Plan Period. There are ten secondary schools offer-
ing commerce and bookkeeping courses and nine schools offering typing. Many
of those who are trained migrate to South Africa, however, and there are a
large number of dropouts.
Technical and Vocational Training
7.        Technician training is offered in three upper-secondary level
schools, of which the most important is the Lerotholi Technical Institute
(LTI). LTI offers courses in electrical installation, basic electronics,
carpentry and joinery, plumbing and pipe fitting, automotive mechanics, and
maintenance fitting. The Technician's Training School, which provides a
three-year post-secondary level course in civil, mechanical, or electrical
engineering, was formerly under the Ministry of Works but now has become an
integral part of the LTI. About 15 engineering technicians are presently
produced per annum. The LTI has been substantially expanded under the IDA-
assisted first education project (from 120 to 360 student places). Legisla-
tion to incorporate the Lesotho Institute of Public Administration and the
Commercial Training Institute (para. 6) with the LTI, remaining the whole
the Lerotholi Polytechnic, is presently being considered by the Government.
Vocational (post-primary) training in industrial arts and home economics is
offered in eight lower-secondary schools. In 1975, total enrollments in
vocational and technical education together were 549, of which 355 were en-
rolled in home-economics courses.
National Farm Mechanization Training Program
8.        A large number of the estimated 1,200 tractors now in Lesotho suffer
from extremely poor maintenance and operation procedures. Consequently, at
any one time, a high proportion of the tractors are generally inoperative.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
These difficulties are compounded by the lack of service and repair facili-
ties and spare parts. UNDP is funding a project to establish a National
Farm Mechanization Training Center for training tractor owners and opera-
tors in the efficient maintenance of their tractors and implements. Pre-
sent Government facilities as well as those facilities established under
the area-based projects are expected to be incorporated into the scheme.
The total estimated cost of the project over 4 years (1976-79) is R 144,600.
Non-Formal Training in Rural Areas
9.        A variety of institutions provide training outside of the formal
institutions. The Ministry of Agriculture is particularly active in this
endeavor, with the majority of its efforts being concentrated in rural areas.
The extension and information services of the Ministry have important train-
ing aspects in the areas of crop and livestock production, horticulture,
nutrition, and marketing. In addition to promoting cooperative development,
the cooperative division provides bookkeeping courses. The Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center (LDTC) established under the IDA-assisted first education
project uses correspondence courses and radio to provide educational oppor-
tunities to people scattered throughout the country who do not have the
opportunity to follow formal education courses. The IDA-assisted second
education project will enable two rural technical schools to offer courses
to adults when formal training is not in session. The second project will
also enable thirteen general-secondary schools to initiate community
outreach programs under which the school's practical facilities may be used by
out-of-school youths and adults.
Farmer Training Centers
10.       At present, there are four Farmer Training Centers at Leribe,
Matela, Mohales Hoek and Qachas ]Nek; a fifth Farmer Training Center began
functioning in early 1977 outside the BASP area. Each existing Farmer Train-
ing Center has a capacity to accommodate 72 farmers (except Leribe, which
has a capacity of 64). The Farmer Training Centers are designed to carry
out (i) residential short courses for adult farmers; (ii) in-service training
courses for Government staff; and (iii) a ten-month course for young farmers.
Adult farmers' courses are held from January to May and from October to De-
cember; a summary of short courses held for adult farmers in four FTCs during
1973 is shown below:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Courses Offered and Attendance at FTCs, 1973
Subject                     No. Courses       Men   Women   Total
Cooperatives                               26            213    575       788
Poultry                                     9             35    184       219
Veg. Production                            11             16    235       251
Nutrition                                   9             --    284       284
Summer Crops                                7             99    128       227
Wool Growers' Association                   4            149      17      166
Winter Crops                                4             12    107       119
Women's Association                         2             --     88        88
Study Groups                                2             28     28        56
Chiefs' Administration                      2             44       8       52
Farmers' Association                        1              3       9       12
Young Farmers (short-term)                  1              1     37        38
Asparagus Production                        1              8       4       12
Dairy                                       1             12       8       20
Grazing Control                             1             16       3       19
Farm Machinery                              1             19     --        19
Total          82            655   1715      2370
As can be seen from the above table, women have been the majority of parti-
cipants in these courses except in those fields that have traditionally been
the responsibility of men.
11.       June to September is devoted to in-service training courses for
the staff of various ministries. In-service training courses were held in
the use of visual aids, soil science, government accounting, agricultural ex-
tension, judiciary practices, grazing control, home economics, and nutrition.
Summary of In-Service Training Courses
Held in Four FTCs During 1973
FTC                        No. Courses           Men    Women    Total
Leribe                           5                94       29       123
Matela                           2                24       --        24
Mohales Hoek                     2                34       40        74
Qachas Nek                       4                75       40       115
Total           13               227      109       336
12.       A residential ten-month's training course for boys and girls
between the ages of 16 and 22 years is offered at all four Farmer Training
Centers.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Attendance of Young Farmers at FTCs, 1973
FTC                              Boys       Girls        Total
Leribe                            15          16            31
Matela                             8          15            23
Mohales Hoek                      13          14            27
Qachas Nek                        13          16            29
Total             49          61           110
Despite the fairly good attendance, the residential course has not been very
effective, since the youth do not have easy access to land and few, if any,
resources or services afterwards to encourage them to use the farm practices
they have learned.
Training in Area Projects
13.       The area projects had initially not planned formally to undertake
a significant training function. Because of the shortage of field staff and
the new approaches to delivery of services that the projects have adopted,
however, the area-based projects have played an important role in providing
in-service training to a range of field staff, including storekeepers, book-
keepers, drivers, maintenance and repair workers, and extension agents. Be-
cause the training had to be provided by project staff whose main functions
were supervisory, the numbers that could be trained had to be limited. Be-
cause of the informal nature of their training, the precise numbers and the
types of staff trained are not easily obtained. In addition to the in-service
training of field staff, the area projects have, of course, also provided
training to the project population through a variety of means, including
public meetings (pitsos), demonstrations, the distribution of leaflets and
materials, and formal extension programs.
B. BASP Programs
Objectives and Contents
14.       It is apparent that despite the considerable recent progress in
expanding the size and scope of training, the facilities created are still
inadequate for providing the range of trained personnel required for the
successful implementation of the BASP. The inadequacy of the training fa-
cilities is most acute in terms of the future needs of the extension ser-
vice. Of about 140 certificates in Agriculture planned to be produced by
LAC during the period 1977-79, it is assumed that 57 would be allocated to
BASP in Year 2 to fill the CA vacancies in the BASP areas. A crash program
would therefore have to be launched to train the necessary extension agents
by the fourth year of the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
15.       Training facilities are also inadequate to meet other important
BASP staffing needs in the fields of input supplies and marketing, road build-
ing and maintenance, repair of agricultural implements, promotion of animal
contractors, and credit administration. Three Farmer Training Centers, at
Leribe, Matela and Mohales Hoek, would therefore be upgraded to serve the
training requirements of the BASP. The objectives of upgrading the training
centers include:
(a) Introducing a one-year course for the CAs rather than the
two-year certificate course offered by LAC, given that under
the BASP, intensive on-the-job training would be provided
at FTCs to CAs on a regular basis, as an integral part of
the new T&V extension system to be introduced;
(b) Increasing the capability of the FTCs to run specialized
short-term training courses, to meet a variety of the
field administration needs listed in para. 21.
16.       The numbers of various staff to be trained and their phasing are
shown in Table 1. Funds would therefore be provided under the Project for
additional staff and facilities at the three FTCs; these funds would provide,
among other things, multi-purpose workshops, farm machinery sheds, staff
housing, vehicles for teaching staff, home economics equipment, and livestock.
The Training Program
17.       CA Training.  Students with junior certificates would be admitted
for study at the three FTCs. The syllabus of the Lesotho Agriculture College
(LAC) for the certificate in agriculture would be followed. This course is
covered at LAC in 2052 hours, or in 72 weeks over 2 years. Nine hundred hours
are devoted to lectures and 1152 hours to practical training. Important sub-
jects such as crop husbandry, animal husbandry, machinery, extension, farm
management, soil conservation, and horticulture would be covered in one year
at the FTCs by increasing the number of teaching hours. The remaining courses
would be covered during one- or two-week in-service training at the FTCs in
the second and the third years, during the off season, when extension activity
would be relatively low. A one-year course at an FTC would provide adequate
scientific knowledge to enable the CAs to absorb the training which they would
receive under the T & V extension system. At the end of one-year of training
at an FTC and two years of on-the-job training with short periods of
in-service training, the CAs would sit for the certificate examination in
agriculture at the LAC.
18.       The Principal of LAC would nominate one of his staff members to
coordinate the CA training program at the FTCs with LAC. To avoid developing
a fragmented two-tier extension system, it is important that those who receive
training at FTCs be given an opportunity to obtain an LAC certificate, and
thus to qualify for all the normal benefits of the Government service, par-
ticularly since it is quite possible that the CAs trained in the FTCs would be
more practically oriented than those obtaining certificates directly through
LAC, where the emphasis on training is already heavily loaded in favor or
theory.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
19.       It would not matter very much if the ten-month young farmers'
training course (para. 12) were discontinued in order to accommodate the CA
training program. All other courses now offered by the FTCs would be con-
tinued but would be modified to accommodate BASP requirements.
20.       It is recommended that the FTCs continue the CA training program
initiated under the BASP on a pennanent basis for two reasons: (i) in-service
training (Annex 5) would have to become an integral part of the Training
and Visit Extension system to be introduced and can be offered most effec-
tively at the FTCs; and (ii) about 100 officers of the MOA are expected to
be sent abroad annually for advanced studies in agriculture. If the FTCs
would continue to offer the CA training program, LAC could be converted into
a diploma and degree college offering some of the specialized training in
agriculture domestically, thus reducing the number of the MOA's officers that
would in the future have to be sent abroad.
21.       Other Courses.  New training courses would be conducted at the
three FTCs for:
(a) foremen in road building techniques, including drainage and
erosion control and the operation and maintenance of tractor
and road building equipment;
(b) mobile farm implement repair teams, in the repair and main-
tenance of common farm implements;
(c) animal contractors, in the feeding of the oxen and the opera-
tion of ox-drawn implements;
(d) credit supervisors and assistants, in assessing short-, medium-,
and long-term credit requirements;
(e) assistants to take charge of lock-up stores in bookkeeping,
accounts, and inventory control;
(f) private traders, in the extension of input use; and
(g) local leaders, in taking the responsibility for screening
credit applications, designating contact farmers for ex-
tension, etc.
Courses would be over and above the courses now offered by the FTCs. The
training course given in the Khomokhoana project to storekeepers, including
the procedure followed in the project for selecting trainees, should serve
as a useful model for designing a course for lock-up store assistants in
the FTCs. In general, there is a substantial amount of experience in the
existing area-based projects in the selection and training of field staff in
the various fields listed above, which should provide a useful input into
the design of courses for the BASP.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Institutional Arrangements
22.       Staffing Plan.  An internationally-recruited adviser would be posted
in the reorganized Training and Information Division of the MOA (Annex 3) to
advise the Chief Training Officer and the Director - BASP on all matters
related to training, including the development of detailed work programs, the
phasing of staffing, curriculum development, the scheduling of courses, the
recruitment procedures for trainees, and the physical work plans of the
FTCs. Staffing, housing, and vehicles would be provided for five senior
internationally-recruited trainers and for their local counterparts; the
senior staff would include specialists in each of the following five fields:
(a) crop husbandry; (b) animal husbandry; (c) extension; (d) farm machinery;
and (e) accounting and bookkeeping. It is recognized that not all the train-
ing to be provided is of a very high level, and that a-number of the training
posts specified above might therefore be filled by volunteers. An agreement
should be reached with the Government to staff these posts in each of the
FTCs with a combination of junior volunteer trainers and senior trainers.
There is a good possibility of obtaining volunteers from agencies such as
the International Voluntary Services, the UK, DANIDA, or the US Peace Corps.
It should be noted that the staffing specified for the FTCs does not cover
the training needs related to road improvement; given the relatively few
staff that need to be trained, training in road improvement and maintenance
is expected to be provided by the staff of the Lerotholi Polytechnic through
short-term courses offered at the FTCs on a visiting basis or by the road
engineers to be employed under BASP. It is essential that the GOL give
highest priority to providing local counterparts from the outset of the
project, so that they may be trained to take over the activities of the inter-
nationally recruited staff at the end of the first two years of implementa-
tion. Provision has been made in the project for the training of these coun-
terpart staff abroad if necessary.
23.       To strengthen the communication among and integration of the var-
ious field services, the research staff of the Farm Management Section being
strengthened under USAID's Farming System project are to be involved in the
ES and CA training program. This would allow research staff not only to
utilize their research findings in the design of field programs but also to
gain first-hand experience of the problems faced by farmers and field exten-
sion staff and to focus on the questions which arise in the course of exten-
sion work. USAID's Farming Systems project would provide the necessary staff
and facilities to make such a link between research, extension and training
possible.
November, 1977



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Projected Training at Farmers Training Centers 1/
Project Component                          Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5          Total
Road Construction & Improvement
Foremen                                    1            2            -            -            -               3
Foremen/Driver                             4           11            4            -            -              19
Inputs & Credit Delivery System
Credit Supervisors                         1            1            -            -            -               2
Junior Accountants                         -            1            1            -            -               2
Accounts Clerk                             1            1            -            -            -               2
Credit Assistants                          2            8            6            4            -              20
Oxen Contractors                         20            50           80         100            80             330
Tractor Contractors                      50            50           50           50           50             250
Mobile Farm Implement Repair Teams
Driver/Mechanic                            1            5            1            -            -               7
Mechanic Assistants                        1            5            1            -            -               7
Ministry of Agriculture including
Planning and Evaluation
Extension Agents                          -             -           90           90            -             180
Extension Supervisors                      2            8            6            4            -              20
Junior Accountants                        1             2           -             -            -               3
Assistant Accountants                      1            2            1            -            -               4
Produce Marketing Corporation
Depot Supervisors & Assistants             2           16           12           10            4              44
Area Marketing Supervisors                 2            8            6            4            -              20
Accounting Staff                           5          27            20           14            4              70
Private Traders                            2          16           14             8            -              40
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total                             96          213          292          284          138           1,023   m
1/  In addition there would be courses given to the contact farmers (10 per 100) and local leaders.
February 13, 1978



ANNEX 5
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farm Budgets
General
1.        The BASP area can be divided into two distinct regions.  Farm size
in the southern region tends to be larger (average 7.4 acres) than in the
north (4.4 acres), partly due to poorer farming conditions. BASP would con-
tribute no major advances in crop technology; however, it is expected that
farmers would benefit from the increased use of inputs such as fertilizers,
commercial seeds and pesticides, as well as from an improved infrastructure
and an upgraded and reorganized extension service.
Incremental Labor Requirements
2.        Estimates of the increased labor requirements have been calculated
for each farm model and each crop. These incremental labor requirements are
very modest. Further, given the natural population increase, projected
declining employment opportunities in South Africa and improvements in animal
contracting and tractor and implement usage envisaged under BASP, these labor
requirements are not expected to exceed the available supply of on-farm labor.
In fact, in one small area of Lesotho, labor requirements are already at the
level projected for the other areas in 2002/03, and no labor scarcity is
apparent.
Crop Margins
3.        To measure farmers' benefits, the concept of gross margin has been
used. It is defined as the difference between the gross value of farm produc-
tion and the cost of seed, fertilizer, insecticide. It thus does not include
the cost of labor, whether self employed or hired through animal or tractor
hire contracting. The margins were derived (Table I and 2) from projected
yields and input requirements for each practice in each crop on both a per
acre and per person/day basis. Prices used for all outputs and inputs are
May 1978 farmgate prices. In the case of fertilizers, three price ranges in-
cluding a 12.5% and 40% subsidy for 10-15-0 (25) fertilizers were used. Under
normal circumstances, a farmer would judge the incremental value of yield in-
creases against the increased input requirements both on a total cash and a
return per person/day basis.
4.        The two levels of subsidies over the c.i.f. prices of imported
10-15-0 (25) roughly equal the prices paid by farmers in Lesotho in 1976 and



ANNEX 5
Page 2
1977, respectively. In 1976, the Government received 10-15-0 (25) on a grant
basis from FAO. Difference either in the per acre or per person/day margin
earned on various crops with a 12.5% and a 40% subsidy is most significant in
the case of beans and, to some extent, peas. Whether over the long run input
prices have to be retained at a 40% subsidy over the May 1978 prices (adjusted
from 1976 base for an inflation factor) would depend on a variety of factors,
including future crop and fertilizer prices, and possibilities of improved
technical packages. Such a price level would obviously facilitate production
of beans which are the most significant in realizing the rate of return.
5.        Tables I and 2 show that the farmer is able to maintain or increase
his or her gross margin per person at the May 1978 prices/day and that the
gross margin exceeds the going wage rate of 25i a day, in nearly all cases.
6.        Using the per acre estimates, budgets for typical farms have been
computed (Table 3) based on future crop patterns and farm practices for both
the northern and southern regions.
November, 1977



LESOTHO                                              ANNEX 5
Table 1
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Crop Margins - Northern Region
(by model per acre)
Model I L:              Model II                         Model :                 Model II
Not                        40% Subsidy                  Not                       40% Subsidy
Subsidized  12.5% Subsidy  On 10-15-0(25)               Subsidized  12.5% Subsidy On 10-15-0(25)
On2_ly                            .                    Only
PRODUCTION
Yield (kg/acre)  170         250           250              250             225        365             365           365
Value (Rd/acre)   15.30       22.50         22.50            22.50           17.1       27.74          27.74          27.74
COSTS
Seed                2.70       2.70          2.70             2. 70           0.23       0.23           0.23           0.23
Fertilizer                     7 50          6.55             6.35              -        7.50            6.55          6.35
Insecticides         _- _                                                                0.10            0.10         0.10
Total           2.70     10.20          9.25              9.05            0.23  76.6
Sross yargin
,Rd/acre)          12.60      12.30        13.25             13.45           16.87      19.91          20.86         21.06
No. Persondays    13          14            14               14               19         22             22            22
Gross Margin
(Rd/Persondays)     0.97       0.88          0.95             0.96             0.89      0.91            0.95          o.96
BEANS                                                   PEAS
PRODUCTION
Yield Ckg/acre)    73        115           115              115              67        110            110            110
"aliie (Rd/acre)    21.97    34.62          34.62            34.62           13.00      21.34          21.34         21.34
COSTS
Seed                 5.42      5.42          5.42             5.42            3.49       3.49           3.49          3.49
Fertilizer            -        9.15          8.01             5.50             -         9.15           8.01           5.50
Insecticides          -        0.10          0.10             0.10             -         0.10           0.10           0.10
Total            5.42  14.6            13.53             11.02            39        12. 74         1T             9.09
O4ross Yargin
(Rd/acre)           16.55    19.95          21.09            23.60            9.51       8.60           9.74         12.25
No. Persondays      21        27            27               27              17         21             21             21
Gross Margin
(Rd/Persondays)      0.79      0.74          0.78             0.87            0.56       0.41           o.46          0.58
MAIZE                                                                                 ;
PRODUCTION                                                                Farmgate Prices:
(May 1978)
Yield (kg/acre)   180        325           325              325                                                               kg
Value (Rd/acre)    13.32    24.05           24.05            24.05         M     MTON          Commercial Maize Seed   - Rd 0.372
COSTS                                                                       Sorghum - Rd 76    Commercial Sorghum Seed - Rd o.4A4
CWheat   - Rd 90    Commercial Wheat Seed   - Rd o.2C4
Seed                 06        0.706067                                    Beans   - Rdl 301   Commercial Beans Seed   - Rd 0.51.6
Fertilizer           0.67      7.67          6o55             6.635        Peas    - Rd 194   Commercial Peas Seed    - Rd 0. 4
Insecticides          _        0.10          O.10             O.10
Total      8       -       0.2           0.1               .10         Farmers' Own Seed was priced at farmgate output prices.
Total       0.6~~~7 7Th7            7.32             7.12
Gross Margin                                                                Insecticides:  Rd 6.45/LTR (Thiodan 50% equivalent)
(Rd/acre)           12.65    15.78          16.73            16.93         Fertilizers:       10-15-0 (25) - Rd 183/MTon
No. Persondays      '-7       23            23               23            (without subsidy) Sulphate of ammonium - Rd 117/MTorn
Gross Margin
(Rd/Persondays)      0.74      o.69          0.73              0.74
February 10, 1978



LESOTHO                                             ANNEX 5
Table 2
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Crop Margins - Southern Region
(by model per acre)
MAIZE                             _SORGnWM
Model I ______           Model II           ~Model T                            Model II    _______
Not                        40   Subsidy   M            Not         X40% Subsidy
Subsidized  12.5% Subsidy  On 10-15-0(25)              Subsidized  12.5% Subsidy  On 10-15-0(25,
Only                                                   Only
PRODUCTION
Yield (kg/acre)  150         275           275              275          160        295           295               295
Value (Rd/acre)   11.10       20.35         20.35            20.35        12.16      22.42         22.42             22.42
COSTS
Seed                o.67       o.67          o.67             o.67         0.23       0.23           0.23             0.23
Fertilizer           _         7.50          6.55             6.35           -        7.50          6.55              6.35
Insecticides         -         0.10          0.10             0.10           -        0.10           0.10             0.10
Total          0.67       8T27          7.32             712          0.23       73                              6.68
Cross Margin
(Rd/acre)          10.43      12.08         13.03            13.23        11.93      14.59         15.54             15.74
No. Persondays      16        21            21                21           13         21            21                21
Gross Margin
(Rd/Persondays)     o.65       o.s8          0.62              o.63         o.66       o,69          0.74             0.75
WHEAT                                                   BEANS
PRODUCTION
Yield (kg/acre)  140         250           250              250           70        105           105               105
Value (Rd/acre)   12.60       22.50         22.50            22.50        21.07      31.61         31.61             31.61
COSTS
Seed                2.70       2.70          2.70             2.70         5.42       5.42          5.42              5.42
Fertilizer                     7.50          6.55             6.35           -        9.15          8.01              5,50
Insecticides         _          _-                                           -        0.10          0.10              0.10
Total          2.70     10.20           9.25             9.05         5.72      14.67         13.53            11.02
Gross Margin
(Rd/acre)          9.90      12.30         13.25             13.45        15.65     16.94         18.o8             20.59
No. Persondays      12        14            14           l 14              21         27            27               27
Gross Margin
(Rd/Persondays)     0.83       0.88          0.95             o.96          0.75      O.63           o .67            0.76
PEAS                                   Farmgate Prices:
(May 1978)
PRODUCTION                                                                         M'OI\
Maize  --Rd 74   Commercial Maize Seed   -  Rd 0.372
Yield (kg/acre)   60         100           100              100            Sorghum -  Rd 76   Commsercial Sorghum Seed -  Rd o.484
Value (Rd/acre)   11.64       19.40         19 40            19.40        Wheat   -  Rd 90   Commercial Wheat Seed   -  Rd 0.204
Beans   -  Rd 301  Commercial Beans Seed   -  Rd 0.516
COSTS                                                                       Peas    -  Rd 194  Commercial Peas Seed    -  Rd 0.43
Seed                3.49       3.49          3.49             3.49        Farmers' Own Seed was priced at farmgate output prices.
Fertilizer           -         9.15          8.01             5.50
Insecticides         _         0.10          0.10             0.10         Insecticides:  Rd 6.45/LTR (Thiodan 50% equivalent)
Total          3,49     12.74         11.60              9.09       i
Fertilizers:        10-15-0(25) - Rd 183/MTon
Gross  Margin                                                             | (without subsidy)  Sulphate of ammonium - Rd 117/MTon
(Rd/acre)           8.15       6.66          7.80            10.31
No. Persondays     17         21            21               21
Gross Margin
(Rd/Persondays)     0.48       0.32          0.37             0,49
February 10, 1978



ANNEX 5
Table 3
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Farm Budgets for Northern and Southern Regions
at Full Development
Without Project                    With Project
Model 1
With Continuing         Without Continuin-g
Soil Erosion 1/          Soil Erosion            Model 2
--------------------------Rands-------------___________
Northern Region 4.5 Acre Farm 2/
Revenue                       27.8                     74.2                 127.3
Costs                          8.9                      8.9                  48.8
Surplus before Labor          18.9                     65.3                  78.5
Southern Region 7.0 Acre Farm
Revenue                       39.2                    104.7                 187.7
Costs                         13.8                     13.8                  79.0
Surplus before Labor         25.4                      90.9                 108.7
Northern                        Southern
Model 1       Model 2           Model 1        Model 2
Cropping Patterns
Maize                         1.8            1.6              2.0            1.7
Sorghum                      0.8            0.6               1.9           1.3
Wheat                         0.4            0.5              1.5            1.6
Beans                         0.9            1.2              1.1            1.8
Peas                         0.1            0.2              0.1            0.2
Fallow                       0.5            0.4              0.4            0.4
4.5            4.5              7.0            7.0
1/  Based on yield loss of 4% p.a. (see Annex 7/Appendix 1).
2/ Based upon information in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex but using increased
prices for crops output expected at full development (rate of increase
identified in Annex 6/Table 7).
April 4, 1978



ANNEX 6
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Output Prices
1.        As a result of the Customs Union Agreement among the four countries
(Botswana and Swaziland, Lesotho and South Africa), Lesotho has had free
access to the relatively large Soath African Market. Republic of South
Africa (RSA) is the principle market for Lesotho's bean and wheat exports
and the principal supplier of Lesotho's maize imports 1/. Sorghum and peas
have traditionally been consumed largely on farm. RSA prices thus princi-
pally determine crop prices in Lesotho (see Tables I through 6).
2.        The bean prices in RSA, and until 1977 in Lesotho, have been un-
controlled. RSA prices of wheat, maize and grain sorghum, have been set
at price levels which showed little or no relationship to historical inter-
national price levels. In 1977, RSA prices for these commodities were ap-
proximately equivalent to international prices. Imports of maize and maize
products have been increasing in recent years (Table 10), and are expected
to continue to increase without some domestic action to reverse the declin-
ing trend in production.
3.        The prices to be used for estimating benefits of incremental pro-
duction in Lesotho depends on what are considered the sources of its imports
and markets for its exports. If it is assumed that Lesotho's histroical
trading relationship with RSA would continue in the future, RSA prices would
be the basis for economic evaluatiLon in the case of most crops. However, if
Lesotho continues to trade largely with RSA, it is likely that it would charge
prices to Lesotho that are more in line with international price levels and
trends. To reflect these possible changes in trading relationships, in the
case of maize, sorghum and wheat, the economic analysis is based on interna-
tional prices and transport prices and transport costs from RSA. It should
be emphasized that if Lesotho has to cease importing from RSA, the cost of
its imports and therefore the benefits of its incremental production, would
be even greater than those assumed here, as shipping costs from the tradi-
tional exporters of cereals to Lesotho would be higher than those from RSA.
4.        Beans are expected to be exported both to South Africa and to
Europe. U.K. bean prices are used. Tables 1 through 6 present past prices
of the five cereals in Lesotho, RSA and the international market, as well as
the projected international prices. Table 7 summarizes the prices used in
1/   Lesotho has exported wheat and imported wheat flour as there are no
milling facilities in Lesotho.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
the economic analysis and details the assumptions used.  Tables 10 and 11
present exports, imports and domestic purchases of the various cereals in
the past.
Input Prices
5.        Unlike most farm outputs, manufactured farm inputs such as ferti-
lizers and insecticides used in Lesotho are not influenced by any direct
price intervention by the Government of South Africa. Prices of manufac-
tured inputs used in the economic evaluation therefore reflect the trend in
world market prices.
6.        Given the Customs Union Agreement negotiated in May 1976, costs
of imported goods on Government account are adjusted by using a formula to
reflect revenues. Lesotho would earn from the customs duties and taxes im-
posed by the Government of South Africa. The details of these adjustments
are discussed in Appendix 1.
7.        The prices for farmers' own seeds reflect the prices for crop out-
put presented in Table 7.
8.        Table 8 presents the prices of all farm commodity inputs in May
1978 prices. Prices in Table 8 do not include adjustments for duties and
taxes. Also, wherever inputs are channeled through the BASP delivery
system, the prices do not include PMC's costs of handling and transport.
Table 9 presents the breakdown of costs of fertilizer distribution. Thus,
prices paid by farmers (Table 8) used in calculating the farmers' benefits
(Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2) are greater than those used in the economic analysis
in the case of inputs which are channeled through Project institutions (e.g.
commercial seed), the same in the case of farmers' own inputs (e.g. seed),
and lower in cases where a Government subsidy is assumed (e.g. fertilizer).
The Labor Market
9.        The high rate of labor migration to RSA has lead to a number of
adjustments in Lesotho's farming system. The very substantial field investi-
gations made during appraisal indicate a very low level of labor flow into
agriculture per year, i.e., lower than that estimated in traditional agricul-
ture in other African countries. This level of labor use is substantiated
both by casual observation of the condition of Lesotho's farms and by the
data on agricultural productivity that indicate low return to labor use and,
therefore, little incentive to increase labor flow. In the past, the very
high level of remittances (up to 70% of the rural household income) have also
led to farming being equivalent to a "garden" that at best produces enough to
fulfill the family's domestic food consumption needs.
10.       The absence of male labor has also led to far greater incidence of
contact farming than is noticed in most other African countries, although



ANNEX 6
Page 3
data on its precise role are lacking. Contracting may either be by specific
farming tasks, i.e., for land preparation, planting or harvesting, or for
the entire cultivation of the family plot. Contractors are other farmers
who have ox-ploughs and more recently, tractors. If the total farm is
cultivated on a contract basis, usually half of the produce is paid to the
contractor. If labor is hired on a piecemeal basis for specific farming
tasks, the wage rate of R 0.75 per day for agricultural labor and the wage
rates of between R 3 to R 9 per day for the days worked in the RSA mines.
The ongoing wage rate in the agricultural sector seems well in line with
the marginal productivity of agricultural labor and is, therefore, used in
economic analysis.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Price Adjustments for Taxes/Duties
1.        The prices of imported goods and services overstate the true costs
of these goods and services to Lesotho. Such prices are inclusive of import
duties and excise and sales taxes that are collected subsequently by the
Lesotho Government under the 1969 Customs Union Agreement. The amounts of
duties and taxes are determined according to the following formula and certain
adjustments to it.
LR  =  LT      x  P     x   1.42
t      t-2       t-2
CUAt-2
where
LR      =   Revenue accruing to Lesotho in year t
LR      =   Value of Lesotho's Net Imports (cif).
t-2  
Value of Production and Consumption of Exciseable
and Sales Dutiable Goods respectively.
Excise and Sales Duties raised on the above value.
UAt-2       Total Value of Net Imports to the Whole Customs
Union Area (cif) in year t-2
+
Customs and Sales Duties on those imports
+
Value of Exciseable and Sales Duitiable Goods
Produced and Consumed in the Common Customs Area.
+
Excise and Sales Duties raised in such goods.
Pt-2        Common Revenue Pool:  the sum of all Customs,
Excise and Sales Revenue raised in year t-2
in the C.U. area.
2.        The amount of revenue so determined is subsequently adjusted by cor-
rections for trends and for revisions to trade statistics.
3.        The most important element in the term LI, as far as BASP goods and
services are concerned, is the value of net imports.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        As a result of negotiations in May 1976 between the Governments of
Lesotho and RSA concerning revenue sharing arrangements, Lesotho expects to
receive revenues of the following magnitude over the project period.
LR    =  20 percent of value of net imports in year t-2
This formula has been used to adjust the relevant input and output prices for
the economic analysis. Because of the lags involved, however, the adjust-
ments have not been presented explicitly for prices as such but only for the
total values of relevant inputs and outputs. Projections of revenue in year
t, arising as a result of changes in imports in year t-2, have been totalled
and used to adjust either (i) total costs in respect of imported project in-
puts, such as fertilizer; or (ii) total benefits, in respect of changed im-
ports of items of projected output, such as maize and sorghum.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Small White Haricot Beans
(Rands per m ton)
U.K. cif price         U.K. cif price
Lesotho Farm    South African    No. I Michigan           No. 1 Michigan
Year     Gate Prices    Producer Price          Pea Beans              Pea Beans
(In Current Prices)
1972        146.0              166.5               241                   393
1973        220.5             260.8                289                   418
1974        292.7             388.5                591                   713
1975        379.6              N.A.                347                   362
1976        289.7              N.A.                570                   570
1977        300.0              N.A.               N.A.                   N.A.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 2
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Derivation of Farmgate Price for Small White Haricot Beans
Rands per M/Ton
Average 1972-76 cif U.K. price                                481
17.5 percent size variability d:iscount for
Lesotho beans in the international market                    84
shipping & handling charges from U.K. to
Maseru (through Durban)                                      70
7 percent of Maseru price as handling and
shipping costs from farmgate to Maseru                       23
Farmgate price                   304
On the basis of the above farmgate price and in view of the 1976 and 1977
actual farmgate prices in Lesotho, the price of R 300/per M/ton has been
used in the economic evaluation.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 3
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Maize
(Rands per m ton)
Actual and
Lesotho Farm    South African           International         projected
Year      Gate Prices 1/ Producer Prices 1/         Prices 2/          international
prices 2/
(in current rand)                          (In 1977 Prices)
1972           43.8
1973           44.4
1974           48.9             44.9                   89.8               109.45 3/
1975           49.0             49.4                   87.9                93.6  3/
1976           55.5             55.4                   97.4                97.4  3/
1977           74.0             76.0                   80.9                80.9
1978                                                  100.0                92.6
1979                                                  121.7               104.8
1980                                                  139.1               112.0
1985                                                  195.7               112.3
1/   Gazetted minimum buying price.
2/   U.S. No. 2 f.o.b. gulf port prices converted into rand at the following
exchange rates:
1974: IR = US$1.47
1975: 1R = US$1.36
1976: )1R = US$1.15
and   )
subsequent years
3/   Actual prices in current terms.
Source: Produce Marketing Corporation and World Bank Commodity Price
Forecasts.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 4
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Wheat
(Rands per m ton)
Actual and
Lesotho Farm    South African           International          projected
Year      Gate Prices 1/ Producer Prices 1/          Prices 3/          international
Prices
(in current rand)                          (In 1977 Prices)
1972           47.1
1973           55.5
1974           59.7             73.8                  142.0                211.9 4/
1975           74.2             86.6                  133.3                141.9 4/
1976           73.8            105.0                  128.7                128.9 4/
1977           90.0            100.0                   98.3                 98.3 1/
1978                                                  121.7                112.7
1979                                                  156.5                134.8
1980                                                  195.7                157.6
1985                                                  282.6                162.2
1/   Gazetted minimum buying price.
2/   Refers to Class C super 3 grade.
3/   Canadian No. 1, Western Red Spring in store Thunder Bay.  Converted into
rand at the following exchange rates:
1974: IR = US$1.47
1975:  IR = US$1.36
1976: )1R = IJS$1.15
and )
subsequent years
4/   Actual prices in current terms.
Source: Produce Marketing Corporation, Lesotho and World Bank Commodity
Price Forecasts.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 5
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
International, Lesotho and RSA Prices of Grain Sorghum
(Rands per m ton)
Actual and
Lesotho Farm    South African          International          projected
Year      Gate Prices 1/ Producer Prices 1/         Prices 3/         international
Prices
(in current rand)                         (In 1977 Prices)
1972          40.9
1973          62.2              48.90
1974          54.8             52.90                  82.3               100.00 4/
1975          62.0             60.90                  82.2                87.5  4/
1976          72.15            65.00                  91.3                91.3  4/
1977          76.0              78.0                  74.8                74.8  4/
1978                                                  91.3                84.5
1979                                                 108.7                93.6
1980                                                 121.7                98.0
1985                                                 169.6                97.4
1/   Gazetted minimum buying price.
2/   US No. 2 milo, f.o.b. Gulf Ports.
3/   Prices converted into rands at the following exchange rates:
1974: 1R = US$1.47
1975: IR = US$1.36
1976: )IR = US$1.15
and   )
subsequent years
4/   Actual prices in current terms.
Source: Produce Marketing Corporation, Lesotho. World Commodity Price
Forecasts.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 6
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farmgate Prices of Peas in Lesotho
(R/metric ton)
Lesotho Farm
Year                                                         Gate Prices
1971                                                               82.6
1972                                                               82.0
1973                                                              106.4
1974                                                             201.3
1975                                                             188.0
1976                                                              190.0
Source: Produce Marketing Corporation, Lesotho
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 7
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Output Prices Used in Economic Analysis
(Rands per m ton)
Year          Beans  1/      Maize  2/     Wheat  3/    Sorghum  2/    Peas  4/
1977            300             93             113           86            200
1978                           107             130           97            ---
1979                           121             155          108
1980                           129             181          112
1981                                           ...          112
. ~ ~ ~  ~  .             ..            ..            .. .
1985                                           187
, .....~~~~~...                        ...          ..... ..... .. .......
2001/02
1/   Based on international prices, see Table 2 for derivation of farmgate
prices.
2/   Based on international price projections (in 1977 prices) converted into
Rand at R 1 = US$1.15, + 15% of the value as transport and handling
charges from RSA to rural areas in Lesotho.
3/   As for 2 except  -15% from rural to RSA for export element of project
production.
4/   Based on past farmgate prices in Lesotho (see Table 6).
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 8
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Input Prices used in Economic Analysis and those paid by Farmers
Cost per Unit            Paid by
Unit           Economic Analysis 1/    Farmers
Seed                                                          R                   R
Commercial maize                 metr-ic ton               346                 372
Farmers' maize 2/                metric ton                 69                  74
Commercial sorghum               metric ton                404                 434
Farmers' sorghum 2/              metric ton                 71                  76
Commercial beans                 metric ton                480                 516
Farmers' beans 2/                metric ton                280                 301
Commercial wheat                 metric ton                190                 204
Farmers' wheat                   metric ton                 84                  90
Commercial peas                  metric ton                400                 430
Farmers' peas 2/                 metric ton                190                 194
Fertilizer 3/
10-15-0 (25)                     metric ton                153                 183 4/
Ammonium sulphate (21%)          metric ton                 90.3               117
Insecticide
Thiodan 100% liquid              liter                       6.0                 6.45
1/ Prices used in economic analysis are lower than the farmgate prices by 7 percent to
allow for the internal cost of distribution. Economic prices increase in real terms
by 25% after 5 years.
2/ Farmers' own seed is valued at the same price as the farmgate price of output.
3/ Build-up of the fertilizer prices with and without subsidies is shown in Table 9.
4/ Price without subsidy.
February 14, 1978



ANNEX 6
Table 9
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Derivation of Farmgate Prices of Fertilizers
10-15-0(25)          A/S (21%)
Sept. 77 Basic Cost Factors (SAR)            137.65                79.20
Railage                                     4.86                 4.86
Insurance                                   0.58                 0.33
Sub-total                                    143.09                84.39
Handling                                     .90                  .90
Storage                                      .90                  .90
Transport (Maseru-Area Store)               2.90                 2.90
(Area-Store)                     4.65                 4.65
Sub-total                                    152.44                93.74
Allowance for Overhead                     10.00                10.00
Sub-total                                    162.44               103.74
Distributor's Commission 5%                 7.44                 4.73
Farmgate Price
(Without Subsidy)                 169.88               108.47
Assuming a 7.5% rate of inflation during October 1977 and May 1978, farmgate
prices of fertilizers are expected to be as follows:
10-15-0(25)            - Rd 183/MTon
Ammonium Sulphate      -  Rd 117/MTon
Fertilizer Prices with Subsidies:
12 1/2% subsidy on 10-15-0(25)   -  R 160.10/MTon
40% subsidy on 10-150-0(25)       -  R 110.0O/MTon
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 10
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Official Imports of Maize and Maize Products, Lesotho
(in m tons)
Commercial Imports               Donor Aid              Total
(From Maize Levy Records)
1968                      27,026                                           27,026
1969                      32,118                                           32,118
1970                      31,315                                           31,315
1971                      20,728                                           20,728
1972                      15,849                         9,026             24,875
1973                      37,291                         6,557             43,848
1974                      26,891                        11,912             38,803
Source: Annual Statistical BulletiLns published by the Bureau of Statistics.
November, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 11
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Exports of Wheat from Lesotho
(in m tons)
1953                                                             4,921
1954                                                             3,918
1955                                                             7,385
1956                                                             8,248
1957                                                             5,465
1958                                                             1,576
1959                                                             4,719
1960                                                             8,449
1961                                                             5,546
1962                                                             1,566
1963                                                             5,152
1964                                                            11,061
1965                                                             2,970
1966                                                               510
1967                                                             1,988
1968                                                             9,852
1969                                                            13,511
1970                                                             2,107
1971/72                                                          1,652
1972/73                                                          2,502
1973/74                                                          1,149
Source: Records of the South African Wheat Industry Control Board.
November, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page I
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Estimates of Agricultural Production
A. Program Area
I.        The Project area would cover approximately 730,000 arable acres, in
corporating the whole of the lowlands and foothills and some of the more
accessible parts of the Orange River Valley; thus about three-quarters of
Lesotho's total arable area would be included in the Project area. The area
would include approximately 128,000 farming households. Significant differ-
ences between the northern and the southern part of the country are reflected
in the soil types, the farm size per household and the rainfall. Farm size
per household in the north is 4.4 acres and in the south 7.4 acres. The
number of farming households and acreage covered in each area are given
in Table 1.
B. Crop Patterns
2.        Because of the initial staffing constraints, development would not
commence in each unit the same time. It is also assumed that changes in crop
patterns involving shifts in acreages from food crops to beans would not occur
until a major part of the physical infrastructure development has been com-
pleted. 1/ Therefore, allowances have been made for cropping pattern changes
to start only in the year following completion of the physical infrastructural
development.
3.        In estimating likely production trends, it has been assumed that
if the present input and crop price relationship continues to exist, farmers
would change their cropping patterns to take advantage of improved input and
output marketing facilities, credit availability and reliable extension
advice. 2/ The trend noted in the mid-70s of farmers shifting some of their
sorghum acreage to beans is expected to continue. However, since this trend
was promoted by a considerable increase in farmgate prices of beans since
1972, the rate of shift is expected. to be somewhat smaller. Peas, wheat and
maize acreage may change only marginally.
1/   There is relatively little intercropping in Lesotho.
2/   If output prices do not increase, this implies a subsidy of 40% of
10-15-0 (25) at 1977 prices.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
4.        Experience of the existing area-based projects suggests that even
with the improved facilities becoming available, farmers are unlikely to
change their cropping pattern immediately. It is projected therefore that
changes of acreage under various crops
would take three years for each area. As the last area would not
be developed until Year 4, changes in cropping patterns may not be completed
until Year 7.
C. Farm Practices and Projected Changes
5.        For each crop covering both the northern and southern region of
the country, 9 to 12 types of farming practices were identified during
appraisal. These were aggregated into two significant types defined in terms
of method of planting and whether or not fertilizer, commercial seed and
insecticides were used. Based on detailed investigations carried out during
appraisal, a summary of two input packages for each crop is shown in Table 2.
As the recommendations are an improvement over those followed in the past
projects, the output response would in all likelihood be somewhat better than
that experienced in the area projects. Nevertheless, given that the recommen-
dations are not backed by substantial adaptive research, response co-efficients
assumed are similar to those actually realized during the last five or six
years in the area projects - i.e., significantly below those projected in the
appraisal of the Thaba Bosiu project. Given that the shift in practices is
expected to occur very gradually over nearly a 13-year period, assuming that
price relationships that existed at the time of appraisal continue to apply,
the projections seem quite realistic, if not conservative. Of course, if
packages imporve substantially as a result of the USAID's Farming Systems
project or if output prices become more favorable. The production increases
could be greater than those projected in this report.
6.        Practice I, in all crops, represents farmers who after preparation
of the seed bed, broadcast their own seed and use no fertilizer and insecti-
cides.   They are only marginal farmers and are, at present, the largest
group representing a significant farm practice. Yields are very poor and
produce virtually subsistence requirements only. On the basis of the exist-
ing area-based projects, Practice II, in all crops, can be assumed to repre-
sent farmers who would use their own seed, and approximately half the recom-
mended amount of fertilizer. About 20% of these are likely to use some kind
of pest control.
7.        Because of easy access to input and output marketing facilities,
higher return for some crops and reliable extension advice, farmers are
expected both to change their cropping patterns and to adopt improved tech-
niques once infrastructural improvement is completed. While cropping pat-
terns are changing, 5% of each of the areas at present being cultivated under
Practice I are assumed to progress to Practice II. Once cropping pattern
changes are completed, a somewhat faster adoption rate is forecast, a 10% of
each of the areas cultivated under Practice I is expected to move to Practice
II. It is projected that 20% of the area under Practice I would remain in
that Practice.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
8.        Yields for the different levels of farming practices are outlined
in Table 3; these reflect average actual production achieved in the various
units during the last few years by using somewhat poorer input packages
than those recommended under BASP. Of the 128,000 farming households in the
BASP area it is estimted that 82,000 are at the Model 1 level with the balance
at Model 2 or better.
9.        In identifying the two models, efforts have been made to eliminate
some of the inconsistencies in present fertilizer recommendations (parti-
cularly for the cereal crops), and to increase the amounts of nutrients
applied per crop to sustain the yield increases expected for each model (Table
3). The continuous removal of nutrients which has been carried out for years,
in one of the main reasons for the declining yields encountered for cereal
crops in particular. To avoid confusion on recommendations of the type
experienced in the past, and to gain time for a coordinated research program
to get underway so as to develop appropriate regionally-oriented recommenda-
tions, the aim has been to arrive at packages that would improve N:P ratios
and quantities over the past recommendations, and give the farmer an incentive
to make use of the improved infrastructure being developed; at the same time,
these packages must be relatively simple for the extension service to handle.
10.       Thus for cereals, nutrient recommendations of 7.5 kg N and 3.75
kg P/acre for Practice II, is used. To enable recommendations to be made in
terms of 1 bag (50 kg) for Practice II, it would be necessary to mix two
commercial compounds: i.e., 10-15-0(25) fertilizer which is available
through a present FAO grant and sulphate of ammonia (21%). It has a 2:1 N/P
ratio which is a more realistic N/P' ratio for cereals than recommended in the
past. For the legume crops, recommendation of 50 kg 10-15-0(25) for Model II
has been maintained which implies 5 kg N and 7 1/2 kg P nutrients in Practice
II. Insecticide requirements were calculatd in Rand costs based on May 1978
prices although in some cases another type of insecticide would no doubt be
more effective. However, data generated from local field experiments at this
stage are not reliable enough to make specific recommendations. Commercial
seeds for a number of varieties of the five crops are available in Lesotho and
are supplied mainly from South Africa. Some varieties are enjoying local
preference and the criteria used are often based on palatability rather than
production potential. Until specific proven varieties have been singled out
for recommendations, it is assumed that varieties presently purchased would
continue to be used.
On-Farm Labor Requirements
11.       Projected changes in cropping patterns, farm practices and yields
would affect the farmers' input of labor. While labor requirements for cul-
tivation, planting and weeding are similar for the major crops and different
practices, differences do occur in pest control, harvesting and processing
stages. These differences are detailed in the farm budgets (Annex 5). The
labor requirements, both of the existing and proposed practices, are low and
are not likely to exceed availability. They may also be reduced further if
oxen and tractor services are developed.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Production
12.       Likely production increases at full development are expected to be
as follows:
(a)  By shifting 57,000 current Model 1 farmers to Model II practices
tons
Maize                             10,359
Sorghum                            3,378
Wheat                              7,040
Beans                              5,252
Peas                                 835
(b) By preventing the 57,000 Model I farmers and 50% of remaining Model I
farmers (i.e. 12,500) from suffering production losses due to soil
erosion.
tons 1/
Maize                             13,540
Sorghum                           10,502
Wheat                              6,032
Beans                              3,097
Peas                                 276
These two actions result in production benefits of the Project as
follows:
tons
Maize                             23,899
Sorghum                           13,880
Wheat                             13,072
Beans                              8,349
Peas                               1 111
1/   Based on annual production losses of 4% (Appendix 1).
November, 1977



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Basis for Coefficient of Yield Losses
as a Result of Soil Erosion
1.        It has been identified that over the past 20 years average production
in Lesotho fell by 2% each year. Without intervention it is assumed that this
rate of loss will continue. It is also assumed that these losses only occur
for Model I farmers as Model II and higher practices counteract soil deteriora-
tion and loss of nutrients.
2.        The BASP area (75% of arable land) breakdown of farming practices is
as follows:
Farmers
Model I                              82,000
Model II and better                  46,000
Crop yields of Model II and better farmers is at least (Text para. 5.03).
1.7 times the yields achieved by Model I farmers. Therefore on a production
basis.
Farmers (000's)         Equivalent Production
Model I                 82       x 1.0       82
Model II and better    46        x 1.7       78
128                 160
3.        Analysis shows there is a 2% loss overall therefore total loss =
2% of 160,000 = 3,200. This is alL attributable to Model I farmers. Therefore
Model I farmers annual loss = 3200,/82,000 x 100 = 4%.
4.        It is anticipated that remaining Model I farmers would also take
measures to counteract soil deterioration as a result of extension activities
and demonstration effects of neighboring Model II farmers. Such measures
which need not involve cash inputs, might include contour planting and related
agricultural practices designed to reduce run-off and hence soil and nutrient
loss.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
BASP Areas
No. of             Average             Average
Areas                 Arable        Farming             Arable Acres        Arable Acres
Acres         Households          per Household       per Household
NORTH
Pitseng               30,000            6,000               5.00    )
Khukhune              20,000            7,000               2.85    )
Butha Buthe           40,000           10,000               4.00    )
Hlotse                25,000            5,000               5.00    )
Maputsoe              43,000            8,000               5.37    )
Peka                  20,000            4,000               5.00    )           4.43
Makhordana            25,000            5,000               5.00    )
Teyateyaneng          40,000            9,000               4.44    )
Maseru Triangle       10,000            3,000               3.33    )
Ha Fako    )                                                         )
Ha Ntsi    )          75,000           17,000               4.41    )
Masianokeng)
SOUTH
Morija                25,000             6,000              4.16    )
Matelile              70,000            7,000              10.00    )
Tsakholo              55,000            6,000               9.16    )
Mafeteng              75,000             8,000              9.37    )           7.44
Tsoloane             50,000             7,000               7.14    )
Mohale's Hoek         65,000             8,000              8.12    )
Alwyn's Kop           50,000            9,000               5.55    )
Mt. Moorosi           12,000            3,000               4.00    )
Total      730,000           128,000
February 14, 1978



ANNEX 7
Table 2
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Summary of Actual and Recommended Crop Input Packages
(per acre)
Commercial Seed   Farmers own Seed             Fertilizer                Insecticides
Maize
Model I           -            9 kg (Broadcast)
Model II          -            9 kg (Planter)             25 kg 10-15-0 (25) +         70 ml*
25 kg S/A
Sorghum
Model I           -            3 kg (Broadcast)
Model II          -            3 kg (Planter)             25 kg 10-15-0 (25) +         70 ml*
25 kg S/A
Wheat
Model I           -            30 kg (Broadcast)
Model II          -            30 kg (Planter)            25 kg 10-15-0 (25) +
25 kg S/A
Beans/Peas
Model I           -            18 kg (Broadcast)
Model II          -            18 kg (Planter)            50 kg 10-15-0 (25)          70 ml*
* Only 20% of farmers in this group are assumed to use insecticides.
Source: Interviews of farmers and Government officials, experience of existing area-
based projects and government statistics.
February 14, 1978



LESOTHO                                                       ANNEX 7
Table 3
Basic Agricultural Services Prolect
Yields for Different Levels of Farm Practices
(Kg per acre)
Maize                  Practice I          Practice II                  Sorghum                 Practice I         Practice II
NORTH
North     Khukhune                   215                 370            North      Khukhune                   270                405
Butha Buthe                205                355                       Butha Buthe                 270               405
Pitseng                    200                355                       Pitseng                     270               405
Hlotse                     200                355                       lotse                      270               405
Maputsoe                   200                355                       Maputsoe                    270               405
Peka                       200                355                       Peka                        270               405
Makhoroana                 160                270                       Makhoroana                  135               270
Teyateyaneng               160                255                       Teyateyaneng                180               315
Ha Fako      )                                                          HaFako        )
Ha Ntsi      )                                                          Ha Ntsi      )
Masianokeng )              155                300                       Masianokeng )               180               360
Maseru Triangle            155                300                       Maseru Triangle             180               360
South     Morija                     135                 300            South      Morija                     180                270
Matelile                   150                280                       Matelile                    135               270
Tsakholo                   130                210                       Tsakholo                    135               270
Mafeteng                   130                240                       Mafeteng                    135               270
Tsoloane                   170                310                       Tsoloane                    180               315
Mohale's Hoek              170                320                       Mohale's Hoek               180               315
Alwyn's Kop                170                320                        Alwyn's Kop                180               315
Mt Moorosi                 130                245                       Mt Moorosi                  180               315
Wheat                   Practice I          Practice II                  Beans                    Practice I          Practice II
Khukhune                    150                225                       Khukhune                     85                 130
Butha Buthe                 180                250                       Butha Buthe                  85                 130
Pitseng                     180                250                       Pitseng                      75                 120
Hlotse                      180                250                       Hlotse                       75                 120
Maputsoe                    180                250                       Maputsoe                     75                 120
Peka                        180                250                       Peka                         75                 120
Makhoroana                 135                 225                       Makhoroana                   65                 105
Teyateyaneng                180                270                       Teyateyaneng                 65                 105
Ha Fako      )                                                           Ha Fako      )
Ha Ntsi      )                                                           Ha Ntsi      )
Masianokeng )               180                270                       Masianokeng )                70                 115
Maseru Triangle             180                270                       Maseru Triangle              65                 105
Morija                      150                270                       Morija                       65                 105
Matelile                    180                315                       Matelile                     60                  95
Tsakholo                    135                225                       Tsakholo                     60                  95
Mafeteng                    135                225                       Mafeteng                     60                  95
Tsoloane                    135                245                       Tsoloane                     80                 115
Mohale's Hoek               135                245                       Mohale's Hoek                80                 115
Alwyn's Kop                 135                245                       Alwyn's Kop                  70                 105
Mt Moorosi                  135                245                       Mt Moorosi                   80                 115
Peas                    Practice I          Practice II
Khukhune                     80                120
Butha Buthe                  80                125
Pitseng                      70                120
hlotse                       70                115
Maputsoe                     70                115
Peka                         70                115
Makhoroana                   60                 95
Teyateyaneng                 60                105
Ha Fako )
Ha Ntsi )
Masianokeng )                65                105
Maseru Triangle              60                105
Morija                       -                  -
Matelile                     -                  -
Tsakholo                     -                  -
Mafeteng                     55                 90
Tsoloane                     70                120
Mohale's Hoek                70                120
Alwyn's Kop                  55                 90
Mt Moorosi                   60                100
Source: Experience of existing area-based projects, interviews of farmers and government statistics.
February 10, 1978



ANNEX 8
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
The Produce Marketing Corporation (PMC)
A. Background
1.        The Produce Marketing Corporation (PMC) was established in 1973
through an amendment to the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1967. The PMC was
set up "to control and improve the production, preparation, processing and
marketing of agricultural products and the marketing of agricultural supplies,
to consolidate and amend the law relating to the preparation, processing and
marketing of agricultural products, and to provide for incidental and con-
nected matters." PMC started operations on June 1, 1974. In practice, its
main functions have been to organize and regulate the marketing of agricul-
tural produce, to advise the Minister of Agriculture on establishment of
minimum producer prices and price differentials related to quality standards
and grading systems, and to export and import pulses and grain and grain pro-
ducts as necessary. With FAO assistance, PMC is developing a general market-
ing policy which would entail the establishment of a distribution system
which would provide an incentive to the producers to increase the quantity
and quality of crop production. The first appointed Board of PMC included
two farmers and a trader in addition to the Government representatives, and
a stronger representation of farmers is being considered.
2.        More recently PMC has been engaged in handling the local potato
production, as potatoes have gradually increased in importance as a cash crop,
particularly in the Khomokhoana Project area. To encourage local production
of vegetables, PMC has also undertaken vegetable marketing; however, its
operations have so far been restricted to getting large producers in direct
contact with large buyers, including hotel and cafeteria owners. Lesotho
has thus far not been a fruit producing country, despite the considerable
assessed potential. For this reason and due to lack of wholesaling and re-
tailing facilities, PMC's activities in fruit marketing are still limited.
A marketing complex which would include UK assisted cold-storage is planned
at a total cost of R 400,000. This should facilitate PCM's activities both
in vegetable and fruit marketing.
3.        PMC's packaging activities relate to packing of small white haricot
beans in 500 g bags by using rented equipment. Most are sold on the local
market, and small quantities are exported to Swaziland and bordertowns in the
RSA.
4.        PMC has also been involved in processing on an experimental basis.
For the first time in 1976, 118,000 cans of beans were produced on a commer-
cial basis and sold in the local market. In addition, under the Thaba Bosiu



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Agricultural Development Project, a small canning factory was set up with
financing under the UN Capital Development Fund for canning of asparagus for
export to Europe. The factory could be expanded to handle larger quantities
of both asparagus and eventually other crops.
B. PMC's Involvement with the
Basic Agricultural Services Project
5.        Under BASP, PMC is expected to expand its activities to include re-
sponsibility for the handling of farm inputs (a function that in the past
was the responsibility of Co-op Lesotho, Ltd.) and purchase and disposal of
marketed output. The upgrading of the lleadquarters' staffing and facilities
would be handled as a separate project. USAID is presently engaged to review
appropriate proposals and it is expected that the forthcoming project would
start operations by the time the infrastructure at the field level is basi-
cally completed.
6.        PMC's requirements at the field level would be covered under the
BASP proposal and the costings are included at the Block level. Upon comple-
tion of the construction work, there would be a total of 20 unit level depots
and about 65 lock-up stores. The precise location would be determined by
PMC in consultation with the BASP management and the local population, after
taking into account the expected level of activity. The aim would be to
provide at least one trading point within each 5 km radius. In order to
achieve this, PMC would have to appoint private traders as their agents, many
of whom are already acting for PMC. On the basis of an assessment of past
performance, PMC has identified 40 such needed traders as eligible candi-
dates to be licensed.
7.        The unit-level stores would be managed by a full-time depot super-
visor, a cashier and support staff. There would also be an area marketing
supervisor, who would be responsible for the lock-up stores and private
traders in his respective unit. The lock-up store would be expected to be
open twice a week. For each three lock-up stores there would be a mobile
team consisting of a supervisor, a cashier, a driver and two laborers sta-
tioned at the unit depot. The teams would be responsible to the area market-
ing supervisor, who in turn reports to the depot supervisor.
8.        The cost of the construction program may be somewhat reduced, if
a decision by GOL should be made to transfer some of Co-op Lesotho's stores
to PMC. A summary of the total store program is attached as Table 3.
9.        As far as transport vehicles needed at the field level to distri-
bute inputs and collect outputs, BASP would provide a pick-up as well as a
tractor with trailer for each unit.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
10.       Under the BASP training program there would be provision for the
training of some of the junior supervisory staff, especially those required
at the field level. It is expected that there would be sufficient capacity
at the Farmers Training Centers to also accommodate the training of low-
level staff needed at the PMC headquarters.
November, 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PMC's Balance Sheet as of September 30, 1976
March 1976
R        R              R
Source of Funds
Loans                                                772,250        288,693
Lesotho Government                          764,250
Agricultural Development Fund                 8,000
Accumulated Surplus                                  124,883        (16,091)
897,133        272,602
Employment of Funds
Fixed Assets                                          29,292         26,581
Current Assets                           1,044,899                  932,314
Stocks on hand                             621,369                  657,595
Debtors                                     357,121                 149,747
Deposits & Payments in Advance                9,104                     100
Loans/Staff Advances                         20,955                  11,972
Bank Balances and Cash on Hand               36,350                 112,900
Current Liabilities                         117,058                 686,293
Agents (including provisions
for outstanding invoices)                130,852                  511,037
Creditors                                   46,206                      187
Bank Overdraft                                 -                    175,069
Net Current Assets                                        867,841        246,021
997,133       272,602
November, 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 2
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PMC's Income Statement for the Six Months to September 30, 1976
1975      1976                      12 Months
Crop      Crop        Total        to 31.3.76.
Income from Trading
Small White Haricot Beans            18,984   104,318       123,302        (78,627)
Other Beans                            1,494    14,023       15,517          1,000
Peas                                  2,050      5,331        7,381         10,096
Fruit & Vegetables                      -       10,765       10,765             491
Other Produce                           -        5,748        5,748         26,865
162,713        (40,175) LOSS
Annual Subvention -
Government                                                   40,000         40,000
Inspection Fees Levied                                          5,007          5,358
Sundry Income                                                     573           1,917
208,293          7,100
Administration Expenses                                        67,318          64,799
Accounting Fees                                  1,588
Bank Charges                                     3,180                       3,420
Electricity                                        318                           58
Interest Paid                                    3,073                       4,698
Office Maintenance and
Sundries                                        419                         329
Printing and Stationery                          4,152                       4,627
Pension Contributions                            1,310                          571
Rent and Rates                                   3,392                       2,804
Salaries and Wages                              28,889                      35,175
Subscriptions                                     -                            183
Telephone and Postage                            2,596                       3,492
Travelling and Entertainment                     6,163                       3,546
Vehicle Expenses                                 4,838                       3,448
Depreciation
-  Motor Vehicles                              2,250                       1,820
-  Furniture and Equipment                     5,150                         628
Excess Income Over Expenditure
(1976 Shortfall)                                           140,975        (57,699)
Accumulated Deficit (1.4.76.)                                  16,092          41,608
Accumulated Surplus (30.9.76.)                                124,883         (16,091)
November, 1977



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
PMC Store Program
Number           Arable          Stores Recommended for Construction7             Existing          Existing             Total Number
of Farm          Acreage        Railhead        Unit Level         Lock-up         Private          Area-based  2/        of stores
Unit Area             Households                         Store             Store            Store         Traders          Project Store          required
Khukhune                 7,000           20,000            -                 1                2               2                                       5
Butha Buthe      I     10,000            40,000            -                 1                1               6                                       8
Hlotse                   5,000           25,000            -                 1                -               4                                       5
Pitseng         _        6,000    -      30,000        __  -.                                --_--3--3 -                  7.-                 7-
Maputsoe                 6,000           43,000            1                 -                -               1                  6                    8
Peka         TI & ITI  4,000             20,000            -                 1                1               3                  -                     5
Makhoroana               5,000           25,000            -                 1                3               1                                        5
Teyateyaneng      _     9, 000  _       40,000   _   _        -                               5               I                                        7
Maseru Triangle          3,000           10,000             1                -                -               2                                        3
Ha Fako      )                           25,000            -                 1                3               -                  1                    5
Ha Ntsi           V                      25,000            _                 1                -               3                                       5
Masianokeng )           17,000           25,000   ,_                       -_                 2       _       1  _          __ 1                       5 _ _       
Morija                   6,000           25,000            -                 1                -               3                  1                     5
Matelile         V       7,000           70,000            -                 1                8               3                  -                    12
Tsakholo                6,000            55,000            -                 1                6               3                                      10
Mafeteng                 8,000           75,000                              I .-   1       .12               -        -                    .     ,  13
Tsoloane         VT     7,000            50,000            _                 1                6               1                  1                     9
Mohale's Hoek            8,000           65,000             -                1                 7              1                  2                    11
Alwyn's Kop              9,000           50,000            -                 1                6               1                  1                     9
Mt Moorosi               3,000           12,000             -                1                 -              1                  1                     3
TOTAL                                                      2                18               65              40                15                   140
1/  With the exception of the two railhead stores, the cost of stores are included in BASP; pending a decision to transfer some of
Co-op Lesotho Ltd  stores, the costs may be reduced.
2/  It is assumed that these stores will be used for PMC activities.
February 14, 1978



ANNEX 9
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Improvement of Feeder Road Infrastructure
A. Background
Roads
1.        In a mountainous country like Lesotho, the topography presents major
obstacles to the construction of transport facilities and thus to agricultural
development. Roads constitute the most important category of transport infra-
structure which is generally inadequate. In 1974, the country had an esti-
mated total of only 2,725 km of primary, secondary and tertiary roads; of
these, 200 km were bituminous paved, 370 km were two-lane grael and the rest
dry weather feeder and access tracks. The better sections of the primary
system and virtually all other roads are in the lowlands. While the bitumen
roads are built to an adequate standard and maintained adequately at most
times, the others are constructed to low standards and maintenance is poor.
Inadequancy of technically competent staff and the lack of an effective local
organization have been major constraints to construction and maintenance of a
feeder road network.
Air Transport
2.        Air transport has played an important role in Lesotho due to the
difficulties in developing surface transportation. There are about 30 air-
fields in the country; these constitute an important means of access to many
mountain areas, which are often inaccessible by foot or animal. However,
due to recent construction of access roads, only a few areas need rely solely
on air service. The Second Five-Year Plan (1976-80) provides for improvement
of some of the more important airfields.
Railways
3.        Apart from a 1 km single track connecting Maseru to the South Afri-
can Railways (SAR system, there are no other rail lines in the country. A
large portion of Lesotho's external freight traffic is carried by SAR to and
from Maseru and six railheads at border posts; the Customs Union transport
agreements favor railways for long distance traffic.
B. BASP Proposals
4.        Due to the lack of an adequate road network, a large number of the
farming population are not being reached by either input or extension services



ANNEX 9
Page 2
or output marketing facilities. To ensure the timely supply of inputs
and market outlets under BASP better transportation facilities are crucial.
Under BASP funds would be made available for the following:
(a) the construction of 15 km of access roads to connect unit
centers with the main road network;
(b) the improvement of 947 km of unsurfaced roads to provide
access to villages and storage facilities; and
(c) the maintenance of roads built under (b) above, the 40 km
already built under the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development
Project, and the existing roads that would be used for
BASP activities.
5.        The main all-weather and gravel roads in the BASP area are main-
tained by the Roads Department of the Ministry of Works (MOW), and these ser-
vices are generally adequate. However, feeder roads and particularly access
to villages and storage facilities are in poor condition. Almost all of
these roads are in need of some improvements and thereafter routine mainte-
nance. The rapid deterioration is largely caused by the climatic extremes
prevalent which include drought and frost in mid-season. Occasional heavy
rains wash out the roads and make parts of the countryside inaccessible for
short periods of time.
6.        With the exception of the proposed Tsakholo area unit center, all
units have acceptable year-round access as they are either located next to
main roads or are connected by bitumen or gravel roads. To ensure access
to the Tsakholo unit, BASP would provide funds for the construction of a
15 km gravel standard IV access road to accommodate 7-ton truck traffic.
7.        Table 1 gives a breakdown of the feeder roads which would have to
be improved and maintained to ensure access during the dry seasons. The
table shows the works on a district, block, and unit level as well as the
phasing on a yearly basis.
8.        The MOW would not be capable of undertaking such a large additional
task. Further, it is essential to ensure that the works are implemented effi-
ciently in line with the BASP phasing, and that there is a close link between
the improvement of the feeder roads and other Government activities. BASP
would therefore finance the establishment of three construction teams to be
under the supervision of a road engineer who would be assisted by foremen.
BASP would also provide for the creation of a road maintenance team for each
of the units. These teams would be headed by a foreman/driver. Due to the
widely dispersed activities, the road engineer responsible for the teams would
be assisted by one supervisor per Block. The engineers would be responsible
to the Director-BASP, coordinate their activities with the District Crops
Officer and get technical guidance from MOA's Conservation Division.  The
maintenance teams would be responsible to the engineers. A summary of equip-
ment and staffing of the teams is given in Tables 2 and 3.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.        The three road engineers are expected to be provided by the parti-
cipating financiers. The supervisors, who would require knowledge of road
building techniques together with the ability to assess soil and drainage
conditions, would be locally-recruited and would be trained either at the
Technician Training School of Maseru or by staff of the TTS made available
to teach such courses at FTCs. The foremen/drivers would get their training,
including some mechanical repair work, at Farmers' Training Centers. In
addition, the road engineers would be expected to provide further on-the-job
training. Major equipment repair works would be done by the BASP workshop
in Maseru which has mobile workshops for emergency assistance. The staff
trained under the Associations labor-intensive highway project could be
utilized for some of the newly established positions.
10.       All construction would be in line with the Ministry of Works (MOW)
standards and specifications. The 15 km gravel standard IV road would essen-
tially be an upgraded access track with a formation of 4 meters and a carr-
iageway width of 3.2 meters. Drainage and erosion control may be less
rigorous than on higher standard roads, but nevertheless would be taken into
account to minimize problems that may occur in maintaining roads. Attention
would also be paid to elevation and alignment. The construction of the 15
km stretch would be undertaken by MfOW. Access roads to the units center
would be undertaken by MOW. The maintenance of improved feeder roads would
be undertaken by the newly established teams.
November, 1977



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Improvement of Feeder Road Infrastructure
YEAR I                     YEAR 2                      YEAR 3                      YEAR 4                       YEAR 5
tConstruction   Distit          Block           UntTotal Kmn
Team No.                                                                                                                                                                                   To Be Completed
Butha Buthe        T       Khukhune                                                                                        61 km                                                    61
I                                  Butha Buthe                                                         43 km                                                                                 43
Leribe                     Pitseng                                                                                                             .       70 km       ,                 70
II & III  Hlotse                                                                                           64 km                                                    64
Maputsoe                                 47 km                                                                                                           47
Peka                                                                21 km                                                                                21
Berea                      Makhoroana                                                                                      4km                                                        4
Teyateyaneng                                                        58 km                                                                                58
Ha Fako
Maseru             JV      Maseru Triangle                                                      6 km                                                                                  6
Ha Ntsi
Masianokeng
2       Mafeteng            V      Morija                                                                                           34 km        ,                                           34
Matelile                                                                                                            \       86 km                         86
Tsakholo                                                                                       188 km                                                   188
Mafeteng                                                    '       22 km       ,                                                                         22
Mohales Hoek       VI      Mohales Hoek                                                        89 km                                                                                 89
Tsoloane                                                                                                             .      68km         ,                68
3
Alwyn's Kop                                                                                     71 km                                                     71
Quthing                    Mt. Moorosi                                                                                                                 15km          /               15
1978/79                   1979/80                     1980/81                     1981/82                              1982/83
47 Km                    239 KM                      422 Km                      239 Km                               947 Km
5%                       25%                         45%                         25%
February 14, 1978



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Composition of the Three Road Improvement Teams 1/
Cost per        Total Cost         % Foreign
Quantity          Team          (3 teams)          Exchange
(Rand)
Equipment      (i)  Bulldozer (D 3 type)                          1            24.500          73.500               90
(ii)  Motorgrader or drags                         1            19.600           58.800               90
(iii)  Lorry (5 ton)                                1              8.500          25.500               90
(iv)  Lorry (7 ton tipper)                         1            11.500           34.500               90
(v)  4 Wheeldrive                                 1             3.700           11.100               90
(vi)  Tools                                                      1.000            3.000               90
(vii)  Spare parts                                               10,500           31.500
Staffing       (i)  Team leader/road engineer                     1            42.000 p.a.   420 000               100
(ii)  Foreman                                      1             2.500 p.a.    25.000                 -
(iii)  Drivers                                      4              4.800 p.s.    48.000
(iv)  Laborers                                    10                700 p.a.    70.000            _
approximately   800.900                76
Teams based at                                                     Units to be covered
Butha Buthe                                                        Khukhune, Butha Buthe, Pitseng, Hlotse, Maputsoe,Peka
Makhoroana, Teyateyaneng, Ha Fako, Maseru Triangle00%)
Maseru                                                             Maseru Triangle,(50%), Ha Ntsi, Masianokeng, Morija,
Matelile. Tsakholo. Jtafeteng.
Mohales Hoek                                                       Mohales Hoek, Tsoloane, Alwyn's Kop, Mt. Moorosi.
1/ Equipment and staff costsare included in the unit cost estimates shown in Annex 16-
February 14, 1978



ANNEX 9
Table 3
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Composition of the Nineteen Road Maintenance Teams to be Located in Area Units 1/2/
Total       Foreign
Cost per   Cost        Exchange
Quantity   Team        (19 teams)     %
-________--------Rand-------------------
Equipment
Tractor (165 type)                          1          7,300      138,700    90
5-ton tipper trailer                        1          2,500       47,500    90
Grading blade with castor (for towing)      1            600       11,400    90
Tipping hitch                               1            300        5,700    90
Tools                                                    100        1,900    50
4-wheel drive                               6          3,700       22,200    90
Spare parts                                            1,795       34,110
Staffing
Supervisors                                 6          2,500/p.a.  67,500    -
roreman/driver                             19          1,200/p.a.  60,000    -
Laborers                                  114            700/p.a. 210,000    -
Approximately                                              599,000    58
1/ Equipment and staff costs are included in the unit cost estimates shown in Annex 16.
2/ The team in charge of Maseru-Triangle will also take care of Ha Fako or Ha Ntsi unit.
February 14, 1978



ANNEX 10
Table 1
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Summary of Costs
(Rand)
Year:    1           2           3           4          5          Total
Ministry of Agriculture    1,177,421    341,114    880,323    956,151  1,096,021   4,951,030
Training                       879,494    611,383    509,443    405,134    130,399   2,535,853
Subtotal          2,056,915  1,452,497  1,389,766  1,361,285  1,226,420   7,486,830
Block I                        731,765    451,893    785,204    723,983    549,046   3,241,891
Blocks II and III              799,902    535,999    423,474    427,170    450,849   2,637,394
Block IV                       283,899    156,012    210,686    232,118    242,990   1,125,705
Block V                     1,474,531    456,196  1,133,082    889,749    677,683   4,631,241
Block VI                    1,053,701  __642,784    724,743    819,012    561,317   3,801,557
Total Costs       6,400,713  3,695,381  4,666,955  4,453,317  3,708,305  22,924,618
April 4, 1978



LESOTHO                                                                                   ANNEX lB
Table 2
BseAgri-,lt-rl Service  Proj-ct
Bait Cant              Ye-  0            Yer               Ta  3             Year 4           Year S          Tatal               F-ripv iE.heege
A. CAPITAL COSTB
4 WhneS drive                              6,400            (3)  19,2BB        (2)  12,8000-                                                            3,09020D
4 iWheel drive                             3,700            (2)   7,400                 -                                -         (2)  7,4BB           14,80o          9B                    13,320
Passeger  -a                               4,000            (5)   4,000        (1)   4,OB00-                                       (5)  4,000           00,000          90                   IBOOD0
POns- equip-et                                                   BO,BBO              5,B00              -                                  -            15,000          90                    13,500
Pl-aing end tr-lkti-                                                                                                                             0            56v                                 02,4
4 thned  drive                             6,400            (3)  19,BBB00                               -                           (5)  6,405,0                        9B300
4 Wihve  drive                             3,700            (5)   3,7B0        (5)   3,7BB0                                        (5) -3,7BB           11,100          SB                     9,990
Office Fquipseet                                                 19000                                  -                                  -            70,000          90                     9000B
Not-rynit                                  1,000           (21)  201,000                --                                                 -            21,000          90                    10,900
Credit Aninistr-tine
4 Whcal dniva                              3,700            (2)   3,700                 -        (B)   3,700             -          (5)  3,700          11,100          90                     9,990
Poseng-e ca                               4,000             (55   4.000                      -          -         -                (1)  4.000            8,0cc          90l                    7. 000
TOTAL, A                                            102.200             25.000             3.700-                          29.200          i,O 0                                144,540
B. OPERATING2 COSTS
()Saaries and Wages
OrN-tr                                  6,960           (55   6,06o        (5)   6,960       () 6,960          (1)   6,960    (5)  6,960             34,800          - 
Advie  nOictr4200 2,,,0                                                     1    2000        (1)  4200         ()42,000    (1) 42,000              210,000         LBO                   210,000
Beputy Djeetatr                         5,BOB           (1)   5,00         (5)   3,000       (1)   5,OBO       (5)   5,000      (1)  5,000          05,000           -
?innvicl contrller                     42,000            (1)  40,000        (5)  40,000       (1)  42,000      (1)  42,000      (1) 42,000          210,000         tBo                  210,000
legal Advise                            6,420            (0)   6,42o        (1)   6,420       (1)   6/420      (1)   6,420    (1)  6,420             30,100          -
Perna..el Offce                         3,720           (1)   3,700        (1)   3,220       (1)   3,720       (1)   3,720    (1)  3,720             14,6oo          -
Onc..etesy                              2,736           (2)   5,4272       (2)   3,472       (2)   0,472       (2)   5,472    (2)  3,472             27,360          -
Clerical Bopeei-                        2.064           (1)   2,064        (1)   2,064       (1)   0,064       (1)   2,064    (1)  2,064             10,320          -
Clerk-Typist                            1,420           (7)   9,940         (7)   9,940      (7)   9,940       (7)   9,940    (7)  9,940             49,700          -
Messeger                                  744            (3)     774        (1)     774      (B)      774      (0)      774    (1)    774             3,720          -
Snater Anneun.tant                      4,000            (4)  4.6,032      (4)  16,032       (4)  16,032       (4)  16,032    (4) 16,032             00,160          -
Accaun t Assistants                     2,064            (2)   4,i28        (0)   4,120       (2)   4,129      (2)   4,128    (2)  4,120             20,640 
Derelop-tc and Mite-i-e Adviser  42,000                  (3) 126,000        (3) 126,000      (0) 126,000       (3) 126,000      (3)126,0100         630,200         SOB                  630,000
neR-ds Clerk                            2,004            (5)   2,021;       (1)   2,004       (1)   2,004      (1)   2,004    (5)  2,004             10,000          - 
I.,er-al Aditar                         3,396            (1)   3,396        (0)   3.396       (1)   3,396      (1)   3,396    (0)  3,396             16,960          -
staresa                                 1,992            (1)   1,991        (1)   1,992      (1)   1,992       (1)   1,992    (1)  1,992              9,960          -
Dneer                                     816            (4)   3,264n       (6)   3,264       (4)   3,264      (4)   3,364    (4)  3,264             16,322          -
Aedie Visual  Soper_ise                 2,320            (1)   2,324        (1)   2,320       (1)   2,32g      (1)   2,320    (1)  2,320             11,64o 
Audia Vis..al Ainsitent                 1,600            (1)   1,600        (1)   1,600       (1)   1,600      (1)   1,600    (5)  1,600              309,o-
Cashier                                 2,104            (1)   7,184        (1)   2,104       (1)   2,104      (1)   2,184    (1)  2,104             1,0,922 
Jasi-r Accessat                         2,104            (2)   4,768        (2)   4,360       (2)   4,360      (2)   4,360      (2)  4,360           21,84o          -
W-ekehp Manager                        42,000            (1)  412,000       (1)  47,000      (1)  42,000       (0)  42,000      (1) 42,000          200,000         000                  000,000,
W-k.ehep Fa-es2,556                                      (1)   2,556        (1)   2,396       (1)   2,056      (1)   2,156    (1)  2,556             1-2,700         -
T .n.ncrt Svp-ri-v                      2,300           (1)   2,300        (1)   2,300       (1)   2,300       (1)   2,300    (5)  2,300             11,5300 
Mehai                                 1,200            (2)   2,402        (2)   2,400       (0)   2,400       (2)   2,400    (2)  2,400            12,2000          -
Mechenic/Briver              ~~~~~~           ~~2,000  (2)   4,000  (2)   4,B0O    (2)   4,000       (2)   4,000    (2)  4,000             20,000 
Yard-,a                                 1,200            (17    ,0          (11   1,200      (1)   1.200       (1)   1,200    (11 -1.200            -6.ooo           -       
Sobtate1                                           346,07             346,072           346,072          346,072         346.072        1,730,360         73                 1,260,00'(
Planing 4  ve-eatiac
Bivisien Head                           5,760           (1)   5,6           (0)   5,360      (1)   5,760       (1)   5,760    (1)  3,760             OgOOB0          - 
Fena M-ang-it  cEnestist              42,000             (0)  84,0oo        (2)  84iB00       (2)  94,000      (2)  04,000      (2) 04,000          420,000         100                  420,003
tEsesist                                3,100            (3)    9,30        (3))  9,300      (3))  9.3010      (3)   9,300      (3)  9,300           46,500          - 
Sn-ey Sepenviser                        2,200           (2)   ,400          (2)   4,400      (2)   4,400       (2)   4,4000    (2)  4,400            22,000          -
S.rsy Assistants                        1,80G           (3)   5,400         (3)   5,400      (3)   3,400       (3)   3,400    (3)  5,400             27,000          -
Enu-setne -Snier                        1,140           (4)   4,,560        (4)   4,560      (4)   4,560       (4)   4,360    (4)  4,360             22,900          -
-Pinld                     1,140            (6)    6,O40       (6)   6,040       (6)   6,040       (6)   6,040    (6)  6,840             34,200          -
-Anniot.nt                   940           (02)   11,200      (02)  11,200      (12)  13,200      (22)  01,200    (32) 01,290            56,400          -
Secrtay                                   940           (2)    1,000        (2)   1,060      (2)   1,600       (2)   1,000      (2)  1,000            9,400          -
Drive                                     816           (2)    i.605        (2)   1,632      (2)   1,632       (25   1,632    (2)  1.632              S,6            -
Sobtatul                                           135,0502           135,052           125,032           133,032        135,052          673,7600        62                   420,0CC
C-ndit Op-rti-n
Credit s.p-riner                        4,200            (0)    1,200       (1)   4,200      (2)   8,400       (2)   0,400      (2)  0,400           33,000          -
Credit Assisantst                       3,200            (4)   12,800       (4)  12,900      (4)  12,000       (4)  12,000      (4)  12,800          44,000          -
Credit Acc-tent                         3,200            (1)    3,200       (1)   3,200       (1)   3,200      (1)   3,200      (1)  3,200           16,000          -
Legal.1   cse                           2,652            (1)    2,6)2       (1)   2,632      (1)   2,652       (1)   2,632      (1)  2,652           13,260          -
Ac-eat Clerks                           1, 000)          (2)    2,0        (2)  _2.000       Ci)   2,000       (20   2,000    (2)  2,000             00,0GB      
Sebt,tal                                               :,   24,9607,52                   29,052            29,032          29,057         136,060          -
Sahee_j                                                      505,976            505,976           310,176           310,176        510,176        7,542,4800
257, ir-citien  (L ..al SaLaries)                   42,4L              4.2,494           43.344            43.5S"         43,544          215.420          -
Svhtetal~~~~~~~~~~a(  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       54,4oo ~~~~~~     540,470           553,720           553,720        353,720        2,730,S00         61                 1,68o,090
(4) Other Olpertleg Cents
BABP Mange-et
4 wheel deSre 30,002 46/yr a51 02   3,600                (3)   20,802       (5)  10,000       (3)  10,000      (3)  00,000    (3) 10,000              82,800        90                     74,520
45 hele drive 30,000 46,/ye nt lO    3,000               (7)    6,000       (2)   6,000       (2)   6,000       (27   6,000      (2)  6,000           30,000        90                     27,000
Pa.neng-r ea  20,3007 ct 1Op           2.000             (1I    2,000       (,2)   4,000      (~2)   4,000      (2)   4,000      (2)  4,000           l80,O        90                     16,200
Office Ru-etg Cean                    6,000o1                   60o0 (o           6,000      (,     6,00  1000           00     ()    ,0             30,000         50                     15,000
Andiie Oga                           20,70               1)_0,02ig)   1,00t(i   1000:                          (l )  10,000    (4) to,.oooo,o                                             370
Training & Recruiting Taste  3,000       ~~~~~ ~~~(1.)    5,000: )  SO          2     5000  (1)    5.000          (10500               2,00           75                    l,S
Planing and Rvels-tias,0                                                                                                                                   501"5
4 vhncl drive 30,000 46/yr at 120  3,600                 (3)   00,000       (3)  00,000       (3)  10,600       (1)  00,800      (0) 00,002           24,000        90                     40, 600
4 wheel drive 30,000 46/Yr at 107   3,009                (1)    3,000       (2)   6,000       (2)   6,000       (2)   6,000      (B)  6,000           27,000        90                     24,10OO
Metrv-vyle 22,020 46/yr at 60            720            (21)   15,122      (21)  13,120      (21)  15,120    (21)  05,120   (21) 13,120               75,600        90                     6,0,40
Office SPppites                                                10,000             5,000             5,000             5,000           5,000           30,000        75                     22,'00
Bate Pr-ece.sing                      5,000             (1      5,000      (1)   5,000       (1)   5,000       (i(    5,000    (1)  5,000             25,000       100                     25,1000
Credit AdnOaltr-tien
4 Shedl tr     30,000 46yr at iSA   3,000                (2)    3,000       (1)   3,000       (2)   6,000       (2)   0,000     (2)  6,000            34,000        90                     21,600
Passnge 0- 0,000 at 00 cets           2,000              (1)    2,000       (I)   2,000       (1)   2,000      (1)   2,000    (1)  2,000             10,000         90                      9,000o
Prlatteg    Statins-y                                   (1)    0.000       (1)   3.00        (1)   3.000       (1)   3.00  1000          005000                     75                    00,750
Suhtetal(b)                                                    91,720            98,920           101,920           101,920         101,920         496,400         77                    501,160
C.    IVI  WOKS   0CrA  B                                            640,190           647,390           655,640           6)5,640         653,640        3,254,300        63                  2,061,760
MOP Maneges-t
fleecig - Weld.. type                 37,000             (2)   74,00               --                                                                 74,000        30                     37,000
Torije Type                           13,000             (4)   72,000               ----52,000                                                                       50                    26,000
Daplen                               11,000              (2)   22,00               -                 -                                 -22,000                      50                     11,000
Planing & IaE-natien
H.nosing - Caleden   type             57,000             (2)   74,02                --                                                                74,000        50                     37,000
- Dsple,                     01,000             (3)   33,000               -                 ---33,000                                                     s0                     16,300
Credit Op-artien
Mess ing - m-rjjsTy'V                 13,000             (1)   12,000       (1)  13,000                                                               2    6,000     50                    13,000
Doplra                     11,000             (12   11.000              -                 --                                               11.000        50                      5.500
TOTAL C                                             2720.000           1300---                                                              9.00                                14.000
Boss Cent                                                            1,021,790           605,090           655,340           655,640         604,940       3,707,100         63                  2,332 300
Phynocal Coogrin47,292                                                                    13,742            10,262             9,092          12,812           94,000        63                     59513
n-bntal.                                                        1,6,6              699,632            669,502          665,532         697.652        3,801.100         63240,3
N~ine Cantingn...te                                                    104,739           141,402           210,721   -       200,619         390,369       1.149,920         61                    729,573
TOTAL COSTS                                                    1,177,421           841,114            8090.023.        936,13        1,096,023        4,930,030         63                 3,040,306
Fabroar 13, 1970



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services PreiecL
Tra ining
(Band)
Forei ge E.achange
Unit Cost        Yeas 1           Year 2            Year 3           Year 4            Year 5         Tetal                Total
A. CAPITAL COST0
Wnrkshop Equipment j                                           36,000             __               __                __                __             36,000     90       32,400
Farn Machinery i/                                              30,000             --                                                                  30,000     90      27,000
Heor Fconom;cs Equipment 4/ ,500                                                  __               --                --                __              4,500     80        3,600
Livestock and Related Equipment                                                 i --  18,000       --                --                --             18,OOO     20        3,600
Tractor I/                                    5,300              --             15,900             --                --                               15,900     90       14,310
4-Wheel Drive i/                              3,700              --        (3)  11,100             --                --                --             11,100     90        9,990
Passenger Vehicle                             3,400       (5) 17,000              --               --                --                --             17,000     90      15,300
Total A                                87,500           45,000             -_                __                __            132,500     8O      106,200
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a)  Salaries, etc.
Teacher - Crop Husbandry                     42,000            21,000          42,000            42,0oo            21,000              --            126,ooo    100     126,000
Counterpart                                   2,000              --             2,000             2,000             2,000             2,000            8,OOo     --        __
Teacher - Animal Husbandry                   42,ooo            21,000           42,000           42,000            21,000              --            126,000    100      126,ooo
Counterpart                                   2,000              __             2,000             2,000             2,000             2,000            8,ooo     --        --
Teacher - Extension                          42,000            21,000           42,000           42,ooo            21,000              __            126,000    100      i26,000
Cosnterpart                                   2,000              __             2,000             2,000             2,000             2,000            8,000     -_        __
Teacher - Farm Machinery                     42,000            21,000          62,000            42,000            21,000                            126,000    100     126i,0oo
Counterpart                                   2,000              --              2,000            2,000             2,000             2,000            8,000     --        -
Teacher - Accounting                        46,000             21,000          42,000            42,ooo            910  00             __            726,0oo    100      126,000
Counterpart                                   2,000              --             2,000             2,000             2,000             2,000            8,000          --
Training Adviser                              62,000           42,000          42,000            42,000            42,000            42,000          210,000    100      210,000
Agricultural Training                         1,600       (2)   3,200      (2)   3,200      (2)   3,200       (2)   3,200       (2)   3,200           16,000     --        --
Information Officer
Crop Assista-t  (CA)                          1,000             --       (90)  90, 000     (90)  90,000      (90)  90,000              --           270,000      --        --
25% Gratuities for Counterparts                                   800           3.300             3,300             3,300             3,300           14,000     --       --
Subtotal (a)                          151,000          358,500          358,500           253,500            58,500        1,180:,00     69      840,000
(b)  Fellowships                                  13,000       (5)  65,ooo             --               --                --                --             65,ooo    100      6oo
(c) Other Operating Costs
Tractor Operating  I1 --                                                        70,640           10,440            10,440            10,44o.          41,760     90       37,584
Travel for Study Trips                                           --              1,500            1,500             1,500              --              4,5oo    100        4,5oo
4-Wheel Drive 20,000 ki/yr at 10 cents  /   2,000                _-       (3)   6 000         ) 6,094         (3)   6 000       (3)   6,o0o           26,000     90        1,600o
Subtstal (b( )1,6    17,940                                                       17,940            17         ,96o0          702          o 9    63684
Total P                               216,000          376,440          376.440           271,440            74,940        1,315,260      74    5 686
C, CIVIL WORKS
Workshop (135 m2)                            35,000       (3) 105,OOO                                     105,000                                                50       52,500
Machinery Shed (100 n2)                      20,000       (3)  60,000             --                --               --                --             6o,ooo     50       30,000
Laundry Roo. (25 a2)                          5,000       (3)  15,000 -O O-                                                                           15,000     50        7,500
Expanded Dining Facilities (50 m2)           10,000       (3)  30,000             --                --               --                --             30,000     50       15,000
lousing - Caledon Type                       37,000       (6) 222,000                                                                                222,000      50     111,000
Ho,sing - Moriija Type                       13,000                       (5) 65,o000              __                __                _              65,000      50      37,500
Subtotal                              632,000Q          65,o0               -                 -                -             517,000      50     253,500
Maintenance 2-1/2 p.a. Fxci,ding Hlousing                        __              5,250            5,2505 5,250                                        21,000     50       10,500
Total C                               432,000           70,250            5,25e             5,250             5.250          51B,000      50     244,oo0
Pane Cost                                                     735,500          491,690          381,690           276,690            80,190        1,965,760      67    1,318,884
Physical Contingencies                                         58.450o          13,39             2 319             2;319             2,3569       2 478 6        65       50.821
Subtotal                              793,950          505,0019          384,009          279,009            82,359        2,0633         67    1,369,705
Price Contingencies                                            85,566          10,37            125,434           126,125            48,040          491,517      67      329,316
TOTAL COSTS                           879,494          611,383          509,443           405,134           130,399        2,535,853      67    1,699,021
4/  Relates to three FTC!s.
J   Fight hundred hours per FTC.
4/ See Annex 16, Appendix 1.
Febroary 13, 1978



LESOTHO                                                                                 ANNY  10
Table 4
Basic Agricultural Services Pro(eciTbl 
Block 1
(Road)
Usic CEt             Year I            Year 2            Year 3             year 4            Year I         Total          T, Trial
A.  CAPITAL COSTS
BOA FieId Services
Pick-up ticuk                                      4,000               *        (4)      16,000             -                 _                  -            16,000        90            14.400
4-uheel oilie                                      6,400   (1)         6,400              -                 -                 -        (1)       6,400        12,800        90            11,520
Motorcycle                                         1,000               -                  -      (14)      14,000   (9)       9,000              -            23,000        90            20,700
Mobile Farm lepleaat Repair T.oe
4-Wheel drive                                      3,700                -       (1)       3,700             -                 -                  -             3,700        90             3,330
Credit Iperatiers
M.otrcycle                                         1,000               -        (4)       4.000             -                 -                  -             4,000        90             3,600
YMC AetIviti a
Pick-op croak                                      4,000   (4)        16,000              -                 _                 -        (4)      16,000        32,000        90            21,081
Tractor eith trailer                              12,000   (4)        48,000              -                          -                           -            480,00        90            43,200
Motorcy-le                                         1,000   (4)         4,000              -                 -                 -                  -             4,000        90             3,600
Ueit level et-e equiptent                          6,000   (4)        24,000              -                 -                                                 2 -  34,000   90            21,600
Lock-op seore eqoiptsent                           1,100   (6)         6,600              -                 -                 -                  -             6.600        90             5,940
TOTAL A                                                              105.000             23.700            14.000             9.000             22,400      174,100        90            156.690
B. OPERATING COSTS
(a)  Salaries - od iagos
MOA Yiold S rvi-e
Senior Crop A-esisat                               3,100               -        (3)       9,300   (3)       9,300   (3)      9,300   (3)         9,300        37,200
Crop Aasiset-ts                                    1,300                                  -      (14)      18,200  (23)      29,900  (23)       29,900        78. 000
Driver                                               816   (1)            816   (1)         816   (1)         016   (1)         816   (1)          816         4,080
Mobile Farm Oeple-eat Repair Tear
Driver/MehIasic                                    1,700   (1)         1,700   (1)        1,700   (1)       1,700   (1)       1,700   (1)       1,700          8,500
Asisista1                                                               1,100   <1)       1,100   (1)                         1,100   (1)        1,100         3,500        -              _
Credit IOporotoos
Credit A-s stast                                   1,600   (4)         6,400   (4)        6,400   (4)       6,400   (43       6.400   (4)        6,400        32,000
PMC Activitiet
UIit Level SEoTes
Depo  toSpervis-                                   2,328               -        (4)       9,312   (4)       9,312   (4)       9,312   (4)        9,312        37,2408
Stove A,c,outant                                   2,320               -        (4)       9,312   (4)       9,312   (4)       9,312   (4)       9,312         37,240
Aret Marketing Sope"tvior                          1,440               -        (4)       5,760   (4)       5,760   (4)       5,760   (4)        5,760        23,040
Cashier                                            1,440               -        (4)       5,760   (4)       5,760   (4)       5,760   (4)        5,760        23,040
PoFtom                                               912               -        (4)       3,648   (4)       3,648   (4)       3,648   (4)        3,648        14,592
DriveL0 816                                                            -        (4)       3,264   (4)       3,264   (4)       3,264   (4)        3,264        13,056
Satibea                                              500                -        0        4,004   (0)       4,704   (0)       4,704   (0)        4,704        18,016        -       
.L ..ore                                             500                       (12)       6,000  (12)       6,000  (12)       (7004  (12)        6,000        24,010
Lock.op Stores
Store Supervi-or                                   1,500                        (2)       3,000   (2)       3,000   (2)       3,000   (2)        3,000        12,000        _.
Cashier                                            1,300                -       (2)       2,600   (2)       2,600   (2)       2,600   (2)        2,600        10,400
Drivers                                              816               -        (2)       1,632   (2)       1,632   (2)       1,632   (2)        1,632         6,528
L.aborer                                             500               -        (43       2,110   (4)       7,003   (43       2.000   (43        2.000         8,000
Sob-Total                                                             10,016            76,308             94,508           106,7.08          106,208       393.248
25% Gratoeiri-                                                         2.504             19.073            23.623            26.548             26.548        98.296
Sob-Total (0)                                                         12,520             95,381            11,831           132,756            132,756      491,544         -
(b)  3th-e Operating Costo
Fiob-ap ttock 20.000 kco/p.o. at 10 costa          2,000               -        (4)       0,000   (4)       60010   (6)       0,011   (4)        0,000        32,000        90            20,6000
4-whetl dri-e 301000 k/p.a. at 12 teats            3,600   (1)          3,600   (1)       3,600   (1)       3,600   (1)       3,600   (1)        3,600        10,000        90            25,200
Motrorcycl  12,000 lasp.a. at 6 orate                720                -                 -       (14)     10,080  (23)      16,560  (23)       16,560        43,200        90            33,800
Mobile Fars lapottNea oRpoir Tetm
4-Wheol deive 30,000 kblp.o. at 12 c-eti           3,600   (1)         3,600   (1)        3,600   (1)       3,600   (1)       3,600   (1)        3,600        18,000        90            15,200
Tool kit                                             300   (2)            600             -                 -        (2)         600             -             1,200        90             1,080
Credit Iperatirca
M-tooyo 12,000 br-p.o. at   v                        720                -       (4)       2,8b0    (4)      2,800   (4)       2,880   (4)        2,880        11,520        90            12,368
pMC Ac tivitiea
Picb-op 30,000 km/f` t.t 10 L evti                 3,000               _        (4)      12,000   (4)      12,000   (4)      12,000   (4)       12,000        48,000        90            43,200
Tractor oith trailee 12,000 km/p.o. at 43 crta 5,160                    -       (4)      20,640   (4)      20,640   (4)      20,640   (4)       20,640        82,560        90            74,304
Motorcyclo 12,000 km/p.o. at 6-tett                  720                -       (4)       2.880   (4)       2.880   (4)       2.880   (43        2.880        11,520        90            13 368
Sob-Total (b)                                                          7,800            53,600             63,680            70,760            70,160       266,0OO        90           239,400
TOTAL B                                                               20.320            148.981           181,811           203,516           202,916       757.544        32           239.400
C. CIVIL WORES
lead Coupe...t
Feedor  ao-d iOprove--ea                           2,000                -      (43)      86,000 (125)    250,000  (70)    140,000                -          476,000        b0           303.800
Feed-r road =ainte.a.ce                              300               -                  -      (43)      12,900 (168)      50,400 (238)       71,400     134,700         50            67,350
Uouatag-  aCledac Type                            45,000   (1)        45,000              -                 -                 -                  -           45,000        50             22,500
- Morijo Type                            16,000   (1)         16,000             -                 -                 -                  -            16,000        50             8,000
MOA Field Services
Ho-sing - Mari3. Type                             16,000   (1)        16,000              -                 -                 -                  -            16,000       50              8,000
PMC Activitier
Unit level stoea yibth  0ffic                     44,000   (4)       176,000              -                 -                 -                  -          1760000        50            88,000
L.ook-p atorea                                    13.200   (6)        79,211              -                 -                 -                  -           79,200        50             39,600
Ho_sing - Morija Typo                             16,000   (4)        64,000              -                 -                 -                  -           64.000        50             32,000
Mainaenance 2-1/2 p.o. fot atorea                                       -                 6,380             6,380             6,380              6,380        250520        50            12,760
TOTAL C                                                              396,200             92,380           269,280           196.780            77,780    1.032.420         64           659,010
D.  CREDIT PFUiD AND P4RMERS CONTRIBUTIONS                                      92,563            93.376             03,313            722904            46.840       398,996        90           359 040
B.a.  CaSt                                                                 614,083           358,437           558,404            482,200           349,936    2,363,060         59         1,414,140
Physicai Coutiagoatira                                                      48,235            22,963            39,814             30,150            17,034       158,196        57            (0,172
Sob-Tatol                                                            662,318            381,400           598,218           512,350           366,970    2,521,236         59         1,5(14,312
Price Coatiageati-a                                                         69,447             70,493           106,906           211,633           182,076       720,635        57           4:0,762
TOTAL COSTS                                                           Z3l,7R_           45193             785_204           72=3 98           5229046   V324109A1          52         L92-5  M
Pebruaty 13, 1978



LESOT1 O                                                                        ANNEX 10
Cable 3
B-sic Agricultural Ser-ices Project
Blocks II and III
(Rand)
Forign Exchange
llnit Cost       Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 3           Total                 A-t Each
C: OITAL COSTS
'0A Field Services
Pick-Op Tr-vk                         4,ooo               --          (4)   16,000           --                --                --            6,9000        90         14,402
4-Wheel Drive                        6,400         (2)   12,800             --               --                --          (5)  12,833        25,600         90         ye,oL-
'vtorcycle                          1,000               --                __        (13)  13,000       (8)   8,300             --          211,000         90         18,910
ob l1e Fsrr. Impler.et Repair Tesa
U-i.heel Drive                        3,700        (1)    3,700             __               --                __          (1)   3,700         7,40o         90          6,66^
rrelit Ocerstio-s
Fotorcycle                            1,300         (4)    4,000            --               --                --                --            4,000         52          3,610
PMF Activities
Pick-_,p "rc 4oe,000                               (3)   12,000             --               --                --          (3)  12,000        o4,o0o         90         21,600
Trevtor vith Trailer                 12,000        (3)   36,o50             --               __                __                __           36,O0o         90         32,400
Mot-rcyvle                            1,003         (3)    3,002            --               --                --                --            3,000         90          2,700
ni:t level Steve  oEuip-ext         6,00o         (3)   18,000             --               __                __                __           1,o000         90         16,20o
evk-7p St-  EqrF   pment              1,100        (9)    9,900            --                --                --                --            9,920         90         8,010
octal A                               99,400           16,20o          13 00              8,030            28,500      1S4,920          90        148,41
-0YRATTNG COSTS
aE Salaries ard Wagec
'OA Field Services
Senior  Crep Assistant                3,100               --         (2)   6,2oo      (2)   6,200        (2)   6,2oo       (2)   6,20^        24,391         -_          __
"vep Assistact                       1,300                                  --       (13'  16,900       (21)  27,300      (21)  27,300        71,500         --          --
nrirer                                  816        (2)    1,632       (2)   1,632      (2)   1,632       (2)   1,632       (2)   1,632         S,160         --
-'cbile Far- Trple-eat Repair TCax
Oriver/ echat c                       1,700         (1)    1,700      (I)   1,700      (1)   1o00        (11   1,700       (1)   1,700         8,530         -_          __
Assistxxt                             0,loo        (1) 1,100  (1)           1,100     (1)   1,100 (I)      1,100           11)     100         x,500         --          _-
Oredit Oxersl)xxs
Credit  -ssiotant                     1,630        (2)    3,200       '2)   3,200      (2)   3,200       (21   3,200       '2'   3,200        16,010         --          __
""tCc 'c'Szniec
' it Level S3
'epot SOpervisIr                     2,32B               -_          (3)   6,984      (3)   6,984       (3)   6,984       '     6,984            9,6
S.ore Ac--tat                        2,328               -3)  6, 984                  (3    6,984       (3)  6,984              6,98         2-7 36
Area ''erketinv Oreevrisvr             1,44               -          (3)   L;-2       (3    4,320        (C'   -1,20        3)   4,32              0               --
^as cier                            1,440                --         (3)   4,320       3)   4, 320       '        (3'   - C-o  ')   4 -20     :-
912               _           31   2,70 o      3 '   2,736      '3'   2 76         (31   2,736        10,944         __
Pri-                                    816                          (3i   2,448       '3'   2,413       '3'    ,44              2,448         9,792                     --
clatx en9588                                             -          (6    3,528      '6)   3,528 v      6)   3,02c       '6'   3,528        i4,1           -           --
'rh-vret                                500               --          (9    4,500     (9)   4,10o       (9)   4,5o"       '9'   4500          18S00C         __
7 ock-Up Stcres
"t- c",pevvls-c                       1,300               -          '3)      ,500    (3)   4,500       (3)   4                  4,503        18,020         __
Chi-er                                1,300               -          (3)   3,900       (3)   3,900       (3)   3,900       (3)   C900         '5,300         -_
916                          (3)   2,448      (31   2,448       (3)   2,448         3)   2,4 8         9,702         _ 
.abtrer                                  00               --          16)   3,000      (6)   3,00        (6'               (6)  3,0oo         i2,00 O
ieh',otah                    ~~~~~~         ~~~7, 32  60),900 7 o,  (loo         67,10              'v,Boo      920,032          --
056 Sretcities                            1.908          15,125           19,350    _       21.950             21,970         o0ot         =-          --
OdIxeIxO (a)                          3,510           75,623           96,753           109,753           109,350 0       1,4t3         --          --
c    thXer Opeatihg C.xtn
i'3A Field Services
0Tc-- CoTrsck 20,0k0 0k/yr
at 10 cents                      2,013               --          (4)   3,ooo      (46   8,ooo       (4)  8,          000 (4)   3,010      31,100         90        28,801
4-Wheel Dr' ,e 30,000 kr/yr
at 12 cents                      3,6OO         (2)    7,200      (2)   7,1200     (2)   7,200       (2)   7,200        (2)   7,200        36,300         90         32,410
"51cr~c'c_  12,000 kl/ys-
atrm cems                           7210              --                --       (13)   9,360       (21)  15,120      (21)  15,120        39,600         90         35,640
"sItel Fa- Cv.ple-et RePair Ceacs
4-"keel "rice 30,OCC lm/yr
at 10 cents                      3,031         '1)    3,000      (1)   3,001      (1)   3,000       (1)   3,000       '1)   3,0C2         15,000         91         13,500
rret   ,0                               301        (1)       300            __        (0'      3-30000                                                       90         1310
30D                     _,Co~~~33        -            1-     301           9oo         91            Sb0
etercvvel 02,011 kIs/yr
6 .ent                          72          (4)    2,830      )4)   )380       ^41    ,88c       (4)   2,883       (4)   2,880         14,L00         90         12,960
PieS 'p Tr_vk 30,000 ktn/yr
at I  v~evts                     3,000                --         (3)   6,000      (3(   9,000        (31   9,000       (3)   3,010        38,00o         90         01,400
*ra-vr 11,000 It'n/ye at 43 cacts    5,16o               --          (3)  i5,43r     (3)  15,00         (3)    ,6904o     (3)' 05,48o        61,920         91         55,726
'e   cte0 1200 0/y  at 6 vett    700-                           3 210             )210            ')1,6              3     ,8           86o           3            ,7
Svhtotal (b)       72,380   -                           7,720           57,380            62,840            63,10        2,60            90   _      7 0760
Tcta1 B                               22,920         123,34           '' 0130           172590            1702.0        647,375         34        220,014
. '- IL FOKS
'exd C-epeoe-t
Feele  toad IJvrovex.er.t            2,000        (47)   94,0oo      (79) 153,000      (4)   8,l00             --                --          260,000         80        208,000
nade- Read Oaite e                     300               --         (47)  '4 1o00   (126)  37,800    (130)  39,000    (130)  38,000         103,900         50         64,750
VOA          es        eo1---                                                                                                       --           16,100        50          8,Ooo
-ocivg - :40rijx Thpe               16,ooo          (2)   32C00-           .-                __                __6 32,000                                    70         16,0oo
r'niP Ie"vel Onxrec witk OCfice    44,r30          (34  132,000                                                                             132,000         So         66,ooo
L.ckd'p Stores                       13,200         (9'    , 1183 Boo                        --                --                            116,900         50         59,100
'ieecx"g - Y"ric'     -Thpe          16,00C         (3) 43,oco         .    .-               --                --                --      1     8,o 30         0         249,Oo
'lavntenaase 0-0/26 c.a.
Per vterrs                                             --                 6,270_          6,270              6,270             6,270  _o5,980             50         12,511
octal C                              440.800  1--        6,370           32,070            45,270            15,270      761,780         6o        153,390
CREDIT FUND AND FARISERS C03TRI3UTIONS                            98.489            98.537           97.718             75.052           46,540      416.686         90        374.972
Base Cost                                                  661,609           416,330          316,916           300,912            293,500   1,989,191          60     1,202,286
Physcal  seticexeee                                   6,336            00.30 t2l0414 322                                     10,691      139,274         57        09,386
Price C-etitgecies                                          744657          8     973 3268, 72                   11,36_           143,658    589,2          _2           290,090
02br0ary  003,2 19780                                                                                       4     9 A L6CO STS79 9a,9 02  53 59999  423 4 7  4 2 a1 Z 2  a a8a2 7 3 94  a 2
Frie--y 13, 1978                                                                                           _              ___ 



2<                                                      (00  dOT  O' 
8  °° °fi5° ~ 1  aooNo Ott                     =4    a       011-0000000oo         0   00o000 1   -          4           *4  O<,g zn
0 ~ ~    ~ ~ o         -  0a o 0                       g <<t0&0 8000088  =0 0 000-1-.0 -<I00                                              0,,     8888888                nn
2                                                       bo 0'''' W   S0:0 : 8o   m         ooOtX888   Sg8w                                                                 * |
1   ~  ~   °  0       0828           80o1oo o o8                      '' - or8o  3t  0:  8                  <o    00       woO       2 o0'010                  - v~ 8            88o8  
00* o2                    %0                             a     --          01'S1 ->  8  8                                                                     o          v@8oosSoXX    o s888>
~~~~~~o                 <0Z   &  gt g~                                          --~S      2        a -Ss'r   S''    w0
2:°n_                 O          O                        s   -  022  N 0* >sS  8 8     
0 O  O2  40 0                                                                                                                                    2              0 8088 88     o      8     w 8>tos 8 g  8     88 88 88 |
§ 0-0°                  C"OSOs°Ss   0tl0HoO@Ol 1ls  l l o v'=sDoo  > I 2000
04  x0  r  _  M       o    ourB,   omW   o   O    --  M  O   =s      ;O                  0  0    00       0  0                 0               0   0    o
IIO 4 _ <0  ~4880 SSo   a   8 .  ll  ,,1  8  o88|



UnS  t   Year I              Yeat 2                 Y ar      ~     ~    ~~~~~       ~     ~    ~~~~~      ~     ~     ~~~~3 YeA,r 4  Year 5                        .1a ue6nEcig
'dO  VI Id S-ti-:s
Pic~k -up erck/+m0                                                                      (4)   16,000                                                                _                     6,000               90                  14,400
4 k 1e Dr,v-                                    6 400                    6,400                    -_6,400                                                                                12,80                 90                 t,2
If otor Cycle                      ~~~~        ~       ~      ~           ~          ~~~~~1 000  -- (14)  14,00D           (8)  8,000                   -                    220'00                90                 19,B800
4 kh-l Drive                                    3,700                    3,700                                         -                      -                   1,00                    7,400                90                  6,660
hoLor    1yl                                  ,000           il      I,)(O-                                                                                      -                     4,000               90                   3,600
Fc - -ptsk                                  4,000           (4)    I,0---                                                                           (6       16,O00                  32,000               90                  2,0
Trco   ith OrLe                            1200              4)    4S,0 _GO4,009                                                                                                                                              43,200~
Mrtortyctc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'O *,00                     4)    14,0----                                                                                                           4,00                 90                  3,00
Unit level ctoro equipmenr          6,000~~~''lo    (46)    6400----2,00                                                                                                                           90                 21,600
L0ck-E1p  store  equirmcne I .100 (26) 28.600 _ _ Zds _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19,80                                                            0                1792
Fi) 8 lAirod  va-t
efOA FiuLi beevLees                                                   ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                  ~      ~~~~~~~~~~(2)    6,200  (?)     6,02)  6,20  (2)  6,200  24,B00           
Crop Ansis aDe        1,300                       -                     ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (1(4)   18,200  (22) 28>60  (22)    28,600   75,40
Dr--e                                           8L6                       8L6                    8lb                   8L6                    86                    816                  4,060
M2bile §'-z  I          I- plmn  l -al   e:
Driver/hechanLc             1.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l00          1,700                  L,700L70                          1,700170                                     8,500
AssLstant                   L,L00                     L~~~     ~      ~     ~~~~         ~        ~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~,L00  "IGO0  1,10D  LIOO  IjGl0          5,00
Credit AsALseant                  ~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~1,600  (4)   (:   ° (4)    6,400         (4)    6,400             (4)  6,400        (4)      6,400                  25,600_
OwIte     'trs                                ,2                                       4       ,1             4)    93,5L2            (4,)  9,3121      (4,)    9,312                   37:,248
A to441                                                                                (4onn  2,325,3160      4      5,73L2            (4))  5,3160       4)        76, 21 37, 28 
GrAkreigSprL0                               1,440                                    (4)    S,760           (4)    5,760             (4 5 ,760         (4)      5,760                  23,040
7areman                   9L2                       -            (A~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 3,64S   A    4  (4)   3 64B  (4)   5,4                    14,59
Oriver                             BL6                        -     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~          ~     ~~~ (4)    3,264  (4)    3,2z64  (4)  3,264  (4)  5264                  L3056
karohman                  588                       -            ~~~~~~~~~        ~    ~~~~~~~~~         ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~(8)    4G74  () 4,704  ()4,0 (8  4,704    L8816
LAbsrer                             500                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  (12)    6,0        (t2)    6000            (t2)  6,000         (12)    6,000                     ON00           
str  sprv- rsL50                                                                      (9)    1330  131,0                               (9) 1(9) 1 3       9)     13500                  54,000
Cashier                          ~~~~~           ~           ~     ~     ~~~~ ~~~~1,306  (9)    IL,344  (9  on70() 170                       (7     t1704,
Driver               816                       -           (9)     7,344         ~~~~~~~~~          ~      ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                  ~        ~~~~(9)  7,344  (9)  7s314'4  (9)  7,3'44  29 376
I.aborer                            5~       ~        ~      ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~00  -~                                                                                     O"l900 (8  ,0   (8    .0   g_ 3.0
S.,/.                                                                                                                                                                                62ttLtc  370Yi  26 38   0903   3  2
b,        -tt- (,h .0?' .....0                                                                                       15,5                    67601765                                      2,7
MOA Field  _crvce_
Plcg-up l-uk  20,OGO kbyr. 9 IOC              2,0                         -           (4)     8,000           (4)    a,ooo            (4)  8 000          (4)    a,0                     32000                90                 28,8OO
4-=herl drive  30,000 k8yr 92C                3,'600                    3,600                  3,600                 3,600                 3,60360                                       1,000                90                 16:,200
e,d-,bcyl,      12,000 4g/y,. 9  6C             7 20                      -                      -            (14)  10,080           (22) 15,840         (22)   15,840                   4l1,60               90                 37,584
H.bil. Fai  lbp r_..t
4-v ldrivc 30,000 kmyr. (I IOC                3. 000                    3.000                  3,000                 3,000                 3,000                  3,000                  L5,000               90                 13,500
-Io kll                                         300              ()       60                                -                         (2)    600                    -                     1,200               9                    I*,oo
Motorcycle12,000 k./,. 9I 6,                    720             (4)    ?.,680         (4)     2,880           (4)    2,880           (4)  2,880           (4)    2,880                  1)1, 1 00             90                1 s960
Pctptuk30,000 k=y.   9 lO               ,0                                      4)    12,000          ( 4)   12,000           (4)1~2,00            (4    1.2,000                 48,00                 90                43,200
TrActor v/trAiler  1,000 km/yr. 9(43t  5160                                  (4)    20,640           (4)   2,40              (4)2,40              (4)   2,40                    882 560               90       ~        74.304
Motprcycls 12,000 km/yr.   6t     ?,                                            4        ,8             4         8             4     Q0            (4)    2 880    _t   Z                               0*   6
9vb-tptAL (b) Ix5,()M() 53,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000                                 63,00        6         9          40        68,840 ?l b 3
TOTAL 9                               ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~20,35D  _ 1_4 90                                23,9026.9
-.2si od. (190)                         20 ODDIU.           (15)  300,000                   --                                           -                      -0 30,00a40,00
Feeder rood iesprovement         ~~~~~~~2,000/k               -           (22)    A44,000        (222)  444,000        (86)  172,000                    -                   6"60,000              50                 30,000
Fed-a rs  b-mint=na-                           300/k                                                         £       6,600        (244)   73,200       (330)    99,000                  LT8,Bo                50                 89,400
Io5e         . hoil  YP                    b,O                        16,000                  --                                           -                      -                     16,000              50                   8,000
Houfing - MorLJa type     16,000                     ~~~~~      ~      ~     ~            ~          ~~~~~16,000  ____16,000                                                                50                  8000
Unit leicl soreA vAtls  ffi,.            144,00               (4)   176,000                                                                                                            .. -..-16,0          50                 88000
Lo2k-up ere                                     1320               (2)   343  0                                                                                                              4 200501   600
Ho-sin  - "...C typc                            16,000              (8)   128,000                    -                                                                                       128,000              50                  64 040
h i---nc  2f/. Bs  for .te _.6...610.61016106470503   6
Bae Cost                                                                    1,209,165                365,694                792,066               586,343                424,610               3,377,878               53              1,813.269
Ph.,,yi-n  ron17,994Le                                                                                 20,037                59,528                37,075                 21,012                 255,646               57                 145,718
Sulb-totA)                                                      1.327,159               385,713                851,594               623,418                445,622               3,633,524               53              1,958,987 
I'ritn rontingnies 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 4~7.372                  ~                       _   _    _ 25 8    1            266,3 232161 97775 6,9  r
T0 rOT  S'5L41,3                                                                    45b,L94              7 ,L33,0_9974                                   7,2_462,ZL3                                           7!Z,8
Feb-uay 73, 1978



LESOT70                                                             ANNIT  10
Basic Agricultural Services Projet                                                      8
BL0CR V1
(Rand)                                                           Foreign ExchanR
Unit Cost          Year-l          Year-2           Yesr-3           Year-4          Year-5        Total           7      Ttal
A.   CAPITAL COSTS
MOA FielId Services                                                                                                                              2,0             0       2,0
Pink up Trucks                                 4,000  (2)        8,000  (2)    8,000            1                -         (8)    8,500        24,000         90      21,60D'
4  Wheel Drive                                  6,400  (1)       6,400          -                                -         (1)    6,400        12,800         90       11,52)
Motor cycles                                    1,000            -              -      (14)    14,000  (8)       8,000            -            22,000         90      19,80)
Mobile PFri Tnpleceot Repair Teao
4 Wheel DrIve                                   3,700  (1)       3,700          -                -               -         (1)    3,700         7,400         90        6,660
Credi,t Opertions
Motor cycleo                                    1,000  (4)      4,000           -                -               -                -             4,000         90        3,600
P1M0 Activittes
Pick op Truck                                  4,000  (4)       16,001                          -                          (4)   16,000        32,000         90       28,800
Tractor rith Trailer                           12,000  (4)      48,000                          -                                 -            48,000         90      43,2CO
Motor cycle                                     1,000  (4)       4,000          -                                --                             4,000         90        3,6C0
Unit level Store iquip-oet                      6,000  (4)      24,000          -                ---                                           24,000         90       21,6C0
Pick op Store Equipment                         1,100 (19)      20.900          -                ---                                           20.900         90      11.810
TOTAL A                                            135,000           0,ooo i4,0o0                    l,ooo            14,000      199,100         9O      179,1.90
B.   OPERATING COSTS
a   Salaries and Wages
MOA Field Services
Senior Crop Asoistont                        3,100                   (2)    6,200   (2)       6,200  (2)      6,200   (2)      6,200        24,800
Crop Assistant                               1,300            --                     (14)    18,200 (22)    29,600  (722'      28,600        75,400         -       -
Driver                                         8816  (1)         86  (3)        016   (1)        816  (1)        816   (1)        816         4,080
Mobile Fesm Imploemnt Repair Tesam
Driver/Mechani.                               1,700  (1)       1,700  (1)    1,700   (t)       1,700  (1)      1,700   (1)      1,700         8,500
Assistant                                    1,100  (1)        1,100  (1)    1,100   (1)       1,100  (1)      1,100   (1)      1.100         5,500
Credit operattons
Credit Assistant                            1,600  (4)       6,400  (4)    6,400   (4)       6,400  (4)       6,400   (4)      6,400        32,000
PMC Activities
Unit Level Stores
Depot Supervicor                            2,328            -       (4)    9,312   (4)       9,312  (4)      9,312   (4)      9,312        37,248
Accountant                                  2,328             -      (4)    9,312   (4)       9,312  (4)      9,312   (4)      9,312        37T248
Area Marketirg Supervisor                   1,440            -       (4)    5,760   (4)       54760  (4)      5,760   (4)      5,760        23,040
Cashier                                     1,440            -       (4)    5,760   (4)      5,760  (4)       5,760   (4)      5,760        23,040
Forelan                                        912           -       (4)    3,648   (4)       3,648  (4)      3,648   (4)      3,648        14,592
Driver                                        816            -       (4)    3,264   (4)       3,264  (4)      3,264   (4)      3,264        13,056
Watchman                                      588            -       (8)    4,704   (8)      4,704  (8)       4,704   (8)      4,704        18,816
laborers                                      500            -      (12)    6,000  (12)      6,000 (12)      6,000  (12)       6,000        24,000
Lock-up Stores
5upervisors                                 1,500            -       (6)    9,000   (6)      9,000  (6)      9,000   (6)       9,000        36,000         -       -
Cashier                                     1,300            -       (6)    7,800   (6)      7,eOO  (6)       7,800   (6)      7,800        31,200         -       -
Driver                                         816            -      (6)    4,096   (6)      4,896  (6)       4,896   (6)      4,896        19,584         -        -
L.aborer                                      500            -      (12)    6,000  (12)                                        6.000        24.000         -       -
Slb-total                                           10,616         92,272          110,472         120,872          120,872       455,104         -        -
25% 3rtiitleo                                        2,654         23.068           27,618          30.218           30,218       113.776
Sub-totll(a )                                       13.270        115.340          138,090         151,090          151,090       568,880
(b   Other Operating Coots
MOA Field 8ervic.s
Rick up Truck 20,000 km/yr   10 cents       2,000  (2)       4,000  (4)    8,000   (4)        8,000  (4)      8,000   (4)      8,000        36,000         90      32,400
4 Wheel Drive 30,000 km/yr   12 cents       3,600  (1)       3,600  (1)    3,600   (1;        3,600  (1)      3,600   (1)      3,600        18,000         90      16,200
Motor cycle 12,000 km/yr § 6 cents            720             -              -      (14)    10,080 (22)    15,840  (02)    15,840           41,760         90      37,584
Mobile FPri Isple-ent Repair Tcacs
4 Wheel Drive 30,000 km/yr 5 1O cents       3,000  (1)       3,000  (1)    3,000   (1)        3,000  (1)      3,000   (1)      3,000        15,000         90      13,500
Tool kit                                    300  (1)         300'         -        (1)        300           -                -               600         90         540
Credit Operatioso
Motor Cycles 12,000 km/yr 5 4 Cets             720  (4)       2,880  (4)    2,880   (4)       2,880  (4)      2,880   (4)      2,880        14,400         90      12,960
PMC Activities
Pick Up truck 30,000 km,/yr 5 15 cents      3,000            -       (4)   12,000   (4)    12,000  (4)    12,000   (4)    12.000            48,000         90      43,200
Tractor 12,000 ':/yr   h 43 cents           5,160             -      (4)   20,640   (4)    20,640  (4)    20,640   (4)    70,640            82,560         90      74,304
Motor cycles  12,000 km/yr   6 cents           720           -       (41    2.880   (4)       2.880  (4)      2.880   (4)      2.880        11.520         90      10,368
Sub-totml(b (                                       13,780         53,000           63,380          68,840           68,840       267,840         90     241,056
TOTAL B                                             27.050        168,340          201,470         219.930          219.930       RIg             29      241.056
C.   CIVIL WORKS
Road Conpo.ntt
Feeder Roed Ivprovement                        2,000            -     *(89)  178,000  (71)   142,000 (83)   166,000              -         486,000           80     388.800
Feeder Road Mointenanne                         300            -              -       (89)    26,70C(16o)    48,000 (243)    72,900        147,600          50       73,800
Housing CalenndonTypo                        45,000  (1)      45,000           -                -               -                -          45,000           50      22,500
Morija Type                          16,000  (1)      16,000          -        -               -                        -           16,000          50        8,000
15OA Field Seevi.so
Housing Morija Type                         16,000  (1)       16,000          -                -               -                -          16,000           50       8,000
PUC Activities
Unit Level Stores oith Office                44,000  (4)    176,000           -                -               -                -         176,000           50      88,000
Pick op Stores                              13,200 (19)    250,800           -                 -               -                -         250,800           50     125,400
Hoosing Morija Type                          16,000  (4)     64,000          -                 -               -                -          64,000           50      32,000
Poiten-cee 2-1/2P  p.a. for Stores                           -             10,670           10.670          10,670           10.670       42,680          50       21.340
TOTAL C.                                           567,800        188,670          179,370         224,670           83,570   1,244,080           62     767,840
D.   CREDIT FUND AND FARMERS CONTRIBUTIONS                               140.966        135.887          129.600          90.603           46.840      543,896          90      489,506
Base Costs                                                          870,816        500,897          524,440         543,203          384,440   2,823,796           59   1,677,592
Physical Co-tingencies                                               83,284         35.214           34,422          34,417           18,651      205,980          57      117,413
slb-total                                          954,100        536,111          558,862         577,620          403,091   3,029,784           58   1,795,005
Price Contingencies                                                  99.601        106,673          165,881         241,392          158,226      771.773          37     439.911
TOTAL COST                                       1QN2a°01         6Zoa             Z A2443         819 012          56 &L17   3±02_L337           e8   2 234,,_
FPbruary 13, 1978



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Contingencies
The Project Time Frame
1.        The calculations and phasing in the Appraisal Report are based on
Government of Lesotho fiscal years; i.e., April 1 - March 31. The Project
period is July 1, 1978 - June 30, 1983. All baseline costs are up-to-date
as of the end of 1977.
Physical Contingencies
2.        A 10% physical contingency has been allowed on all Project costs
except staff.
Price Contingencies
3.        Price contingency allowances have been applied to all Project costs.
The allowances for all costs have been based on the appraisal mission's
assessment of likely increases in these costs. The projected annual price
increases are as follows:
Vehicles, Equipment,
Civil                Operating Costs,
Works                   and Credit             Salaries
1978               12                           8                    10
1979               12                           8                    10
1980               10                           7                    10
1981               10                           7                    10
1982               10                           7                   10
1983               10                           7                   10
4.        Based on these annual projections, the compound price contingencies,
which have been added to the baseline costs, have been calculated as follows:



ANNEX 10
Appendix I
Page 2
Vehicles, Equipment,
Civil                Operating Costs,
Works                   and Credit             Salaries
1978/79             6                          4                     5
1979/80            19                         12                    16
1980/81            33                         21                    27
1981/82            47                         30                    40
1982/83            62                         39                    54
5.        "Civil Works" include Grade IV road construction, feeder road im-
provement and maintenance and construction of houses.
6.        "Vehicle and Equipment" rates have been used for vehicles, mach-
inery, equipment and materials and all other recurrent costs, except salaries.
November 1977



L. SOTHO8
8to/c. Sor/co/tura 1 Scrvices P/ro ec
Proj err rmplementa,tion_oPlan
/l977               /\ 1978                    19/9            =           980                       1982                        1982                       89S3
Project Component  ~-_                    .    T- -V             I            I-'-'1---- r       |- -    -        .       r-1              - ---   -l r-i--- -
and   rr                                                  I.,   2nd; 3rd   Or/v  4hIt  2Sdr             /vh/   I-            3rd   Or/  |Ist   2nd| 3rd   4O    Iat   2MdI  3rd|  4th    1-8t  2nd  3rd   OtI
I   PR EPARATORY ACTT CTI S g                                |  'jird
ttY    t ecrt  t         ni                                                                                       I                           I-
Deve/opme.t of Tr-i/nic                                                                                                  i
acee/te Syvey                                               .
7    PROSJECT /MPLEMENSTATTON
R/ned C...rr/o 
b/ '/pu Store S    on-errrrSon                                                                   i                                                              -
Traioit.gfrFt/d    i olaf                f                                                                                     .ne.e.__  _ _ -_.,_  _    t_l  _ __ 
(d)  lopc /rr          on ti__b_____
/p/  CredOc tprogram                                                 ' ___r. _ _  . r_ 
0/7  Yarn  zmpteolnt Rap.i/  I.e-                              /                         0                                                        -__
fg/  Premorlon of So nml|te/  _ rr__                                                       -     ||i
h Ter/tc/cal Cern/re                                        |     i-                       _ v                                      _. m- X vvntm  I  w - Be t  |  
NSCO/SLTATTONS WTH .  DS 0 
dtppo/tntec  of 8ev S/off                       '                  ,|                                                  
/ttt  stry Orgen/ tcy/ne tnd                                                    |                                                             ,  t-i                     |                      __ .  c  JWcA._  i i _4_--- [--  
'nip/l Pr/rca/v& So/vedres                  !/                                                                                           n m-Vs ~--'  r ( nttoe.mtrorr7m4r,cer5.    ccbl 
Crad// Per//vs                      5        '                                                                                                                                           -    _    u F t _ _ - +        
Nov//tor/no & /vvalna//cr                                              '                                                 l        m  +e_o+,j-_. _ tne             o                      - 
Mi/d-poLnt Sr-ernK   S|i                                                                                                                                                    | 
lV   REPORTS TO /DA                                                        i
Q-arler y Rtporcs                                            |_4'
A--sl Repor-,                                                                           I
Addited A-o-/ts                                              |
P. KEYDAdtFS
(29/6)
App-i-la 
_ _ _                _ _             __ _                                      _                                                                                                             Kfi<
C/sn/mg /ate I/
I/  Ab/ou  6 mont/ca cfter fina/ di/b-/m-e-lL iSe  2nd n            1erter /984
Febro--y 14, /978



ANNEX 12
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
and Quarter Ending              Disbursement      Cumulative
----------- US$  -
1978/79
September 30                     -                -
December 31 1/                300,000          300,000
March 31                       50,000          350,000
June 30                        50,000          400,000
1979/80
September 30                  150,000          550,000
December 31                    150,000         700,000
March 31                       150,000         850,000
June 30                       150,000        1,000,000
1980/81
September 30                  350,000        1,350,000
December 31                   350,000        1,700,000
March 31                      350,000        2,050,000
June 30                       350,000        2,400,000
1981/82
September 30                  350,000        2,750,000
December 31                   350,000        3,199,999
March 31                      350,000        3,450,000
June 30                       350,000        3,800,000
1982/83
September 30                  350,000        4,150,000
December 31                   350,000        4,500,000
March 31                      350,000        4,850,000
June 30                       350,000        5,200,000
1983/84
September 30                  400,000        5,600,000
December 31                   400,000        6,000,000
1/   Quarter in which effectiveness is expected.



LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Incremental Government Cash Flow
(R millions)
Year:       1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12/24   25
Cash Inflow
IDA Credit                                       0.3  0.3  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.0  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---    ---    ---
Other Donors                                     4.0  2.0  2.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---    ---   ---
Governmental Customs Revenue 1/                  ---  ---  ---  0.9  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6    0.6   0.6
Income Tax 2/                                    ---  ---  ---  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1    0.1   0.1
Credit Fund 3/                                                               1.0  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---    ---    ---
Total Cash Inflow                     4.3  2.3  3.2  3.2  2.9  3.8  0.8  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7    0.7   0.7
Cash Outflow
Project Costs 4/                                6.2  2.9  3.8  3.5  2.8  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---  ---    ---   ---
Recurrent MOA Costs                                -  ---  ---  ---          1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2    1.2   1.2
Credit Service Charges and Repayments 5/                       -------0.1  0.1  0.3
Fertilizer Subsidy 6/                            ---  ---  ---  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1    0.2   0.2
Total Cash Outflow                    6.2  2.9  3.8  3.6  2.9  1.4  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.4    1.5   1.7
Net Cash Inflow/(Outflow)                          (1.9)(0.6)(0.6)(0.4) ---  2.4 (0.5)(0.6)(0.6)(O.6)(O.7)  (0.8) (1.0)
Cumulative                                         (1.9)(2.5)(3.1)(3.5)(3.5)(1.1)(1.6)(2.2)(2.8)(3.4)(4.1)  (14.5)(15.5)
1/  Calculated at 20% of allowable imported components as affected by the Project.
21 Based on March 1976 tax tables for all staff subject to local income taxes.
31 Being repayment of credit fund on transfer to LADB (estimate).
4/ Excluding PMC recurrent costs which are recovered through PMC trading operations.
5/ Being IDA and KFW credits.
6/  Being 40% of cost of 10-15-0 to year 5 and 12½7% thereafter, a full 40% subsidy would increase Government's
annual deficit by about R 0.6 million from year 6 on.
April 4, 1978



ANNEX 14
LESOTHO
BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        Table 1 presents the incremental resource and output flows as a re-
sult of BASP, spread over 25 years, which is a conservative estimate of the
life of the Program.
2.        The main arguments in support of the valuations used for the econo-
mic analysis are discussed in Annex 6 on Markets and Prices, and those re-
lated to benefits are presented in Annexes 5 and 7. Traded goods and ser-
vices are valued at projected international prices. Foreign exchange costs
have been valued at the official exchange rate.
3.        Since border import prices in Lesotho's context include customs,
sales and excise taxes, which are subsequently collected as revenue, price
adjustments for imported inputs and for changed imports of outputs like maize
(for which Lesotho has a trade deficit) are necessary. These adjustments
are explained in Annex 6.
4.        The internal rate of return is 13%.  PMC field operating costs are
included in project costings and non-field operating costs have also been
taken into account in the economic analysis. Only those training costs
relating to the training of existing personnel have been taken into account in
the economic analysis. All other training costs are excluded as these relate
to training of new recruits for whom the cost of training is included indirectly
through charging their full post training salaries. 80% of road costs are
deemed applicable to agricultural activities. As benefits are only being
assumed for 55% of farmers in the Project area then only 44% of road costs are
incorporated into the economic analysis.
5.        The Program has unusual risks to the extent that commodity prices
of the main trading partner, RSA, have been below international prices.
Currently RSA and international prices are equivalent. Using traditional
RSA/International price relationships could result in a rate of return for
the Program of 8.5%.
6.        A number of sensitivity tests have been worked out at and these are
shown in Table 2 of this annex. Some of the costs included in the analysis
such as those related to roads and PMC would, however, have additional benefits
as, for instance, facilitating production of high value crops. There is also
a strong likelihood that technical packages would be improved as a result of
the USAID proposed Farming Systems project and that the physical response
would be greater than projected in this report. The return is therefore
considered adequate.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Economic Flows
(Rand Millions)
Project
Project      Distribution      Input        Total      Erosion         Production       Total
Costs 1/     Costs 2/          Costs 3/     Costs      Benefits 4/     Benefits 5/      Benefit
4.2             --                         4.2--                                         --
2.1             --             --          2.1          --              --               --
2.3             --             .1          2.4          --              --               --
2.0             .1             .3          2.4          .2               .4              .6
1.8             .1             .5          2.4          .4               .9             1.3
1.3             .1             .7          2.1          .6             1.3              1.9
1.3             .2             .9          2.4         1.0             1.7              2.7
1.3             .2            1.1          2.6         1.2             2.2              3.4
1.3             .2            1.2          2.7         1.4             2.6              4.0
1.3             .2            1.4          2.9         1.6             3.0              4.6
1.3             .3            1.6          3.2         1.8             3.5              5.3
1.3             .3            1.8          3.4         2.0             3.9              5.9
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         2.4             4.3              6.7
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         2.6             4.8              7.4
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         3.0             4.8              7.8
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         3.2             4.8              8.0
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         3.4             4.8              7.2
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         3.8             4.8              8.6
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6        4.0              4.8              8.8
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6        4.2              4.8              9.0
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6        4.4              4.8              9.2
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6        4.6              4.8              9.4
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         4.8             4.8              9.6
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6         5.0             4.8              9.8
1.3             .3            2.0          3.6        5.0              4.8              9.8
1/  Based on Annex 10 cost tables after adjustments for customs union duties, training
and feeder road costs.
2/  Being an allowance of 7 percent on the value of 'real' production increases to
cover headquarter costs.
3/ Based on the incremental cost of inputs for 57,000 farmers (Annex 5 and Annex 6/
Table 8).
4/ Based on saving of a 4 percent annual yield loss of 69,500 farmers (Annex 7,
Appendix 1).
5/ Based on production increases Annex 7 and prices Annex 6/Table 7.
February 14, 1978



ANNEX 14
Table 2
LESOTHO
Basic Agricultural Services Project
Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return
Base Rate of Return                                    13%
10% Increase in Total Costs                            11%
20% Increase in Total Costs                             9%
10% Fall in Total Benefits                             11%
20% Fall in Total Benefits                              9%
Reduced Adoption Rate (Base rate assumes
70% of target farmers adopt)
50% Adoption Rate                                   10%
February 14, 1978



I



LESOTHO
BASP (BASIC AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROGRAM)
ORGANIZATION CHART DURING THE INFRASTRUCTURE PHASE
MVinistry
of
Agriculture
Produce                   Livestock
Marketing                  Marketing                                                         Permanry
Corporation IPMCI          Corporation ILMCI                                                      SecretafV
DeputyiP"arient                                                                                                  Deputy PDrmanent
Mar ketling   |   Agricul tur           Secetary                                                                                                          Secsetery
College  _       (lAdministr ation)                                                                                     ._ITechnical)
Pianning &                           ~~~~~~~~Extension & Coprtv
0011,                        Evaiuation                                          InfoCrpsReeachCopeatve              LiasocmCrretator
DivisionQ                                    .Divisioo                                                                      D o                                Diviion           Disio            D
| MOA;Trau,  |C Generi    o                                                                                                                    L Existing    |    P     ProCscle
por tali on   AdDirectcr,                               Accounts 2/
D,ut Dietr -i.ASP_ --
AdviseC to Dietr  iArPin
AgricultuDl Developme ristrict Ex- t  rDistrict n|  a,asr                                  |            tr
plus1           _      S        p       tension    |       Livstock SuppPrortnt S  M   Frnseoaatiod m
Offirer HeadedP) by Finncial ControllI  I                       OfficRr eManegair Tra  M airea
1/ Propoerd stafeingi  Director BASi                                                                  _ mnag n                             Officert_
DeputV Director. BASPa
Adviser to Director, 8ASP
Agrwultutal Dftelopment Advisers                --                   |_        
plus Supporting Stafft                                        [   oii ~r                ove- 
2/ Hieadedby Financil Controller iBASP)                                                            L      !D      I
3, Includes Seniior Economists to assist BASP mainaemerrnt.






IBRD 13358
"ll
C ;Ni
A",
LERM;-
)"M 0 Kfi 0 T   N G
=%,S: n",             Ap,
AA A S E R U
.4"
AS NL:'
C3
kK
HOFK
07&5"l
G



