CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 795 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic Agricultural Services Program Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 25, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 795 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 25, 1978, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereiuvafter provided;
(B) through an exchange of letters dated March 1, 1977,
April 27, 1977, May 20, 1977 and February 23, 1978 between the
Borrower and the Association, the Association has granted to the
Borrower a project preparation advance in an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of two hundred and eighty thousand dollars
($280,000) (hereinafter called the Project Preparation Advance) to
assist in financing salaries and wages of personnel and related
expenses which were required to finalize the preparation of the
Project and to ensure timely beginning of Project activities;
(C) the Borrower has entered with the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland (hereinafter called the United
Kingdom) into an agreement dated August 2, 1976, for the purpose
of making grants to the Borrower (such agreement, as amended from
time to time, hereinafter called the United Kingdom/Lesotho Grant
1976) and requested the United Kingdom's assistance, under such
United Kingdom/Lesotho Grant 1976, for the financing of a portion
of Part A (2) (ii) and certain activities included in Part G of
the Project, in an aggregate principal amount, in pounds sterling,
equivalent to approximately $3,900,000;
(D) the Borrower has entered with the European Economic
Community (hereinafter called EEC) into the agreement No. 2095/LE
dated June 3, 1977 (such agreement, as amended from time to time,
hereinafter called the EEC Agreement No. 2095/LE) whereby EEC
agrees to make grants to the Borrower out of the proceeds of the
European Development Fund in the amount of 3,000,000 european
units of account equivalent to approximately $3,800,000 and
requested EEC's assistance, under such EEC Agreement, for the
financing of certain activities included in Part G of the Project,
on the terms and conditions set forth in the EEC Agreement;
(E) the Borrower has entered into an agreement with UNDP
(such agreement, as amended from time to time, hereinafter called


﻿-2-
the UNDP Agreement) whereby UNDP agrees to make a grant to the
Borrower in an amount equivalent to approximately $200,000 to
assist in the financing of Part A (2) (1) of the Project, on the
terms and conditions set forth in the UNDP Agreement;
(F) the Borrower intends to enter with Deutsche Gesellchaft
Fuer Technische Zusammemarbeit Gmblt (hereinafter called GTZ) and
with Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KFW)
into agreements (such agreements, as amended from time to time,
hereinafter called the GTZ Financing Agreemenat and the KFW Fi-
nancing Agreement, respectively), whereby GTZ will agree to make
grants and KFW will agree to make grants and loans, both to the
Borrower, in an aggregate principal amount, in deutsche marks,
equivalent to approximately $4,700,000 to assist in the financing
of a portion of Parts A (2) (ii) and E (2) of the Project and
certain activities included in Part G of the Project, on the terms
and conditions set forth in the GTZ Financing Agreement and in the
KFW Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BASP" means Basic Agricultural Services Program,
an agricultural development program of the Borrower to be carried


﻿- 3 -
out in the lowlands and foothills in the Borrower's territory and
to cover an area of about 730,000 arable acres (hereinafter called
the BASP Area) divided on geographical and agricultural lines
into six Development Blocks, and a population of about 130,000
farm families (hereinafter called the BASP Population);
(b) "M0A" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c)  "BASP Division" means the new Division of MOA included
in Part A (1) of the Project;
(d)  "Annual Work Plan" means a work plan covering and
coordinating the activities to be carried out under the Project in
any given twelve-month period and which, inter alia, will include
details on the following: (i) number of participating farmers;
(ii) volume, type and value of farm inputs; (iii) acreages and
cropping pattern; (iv) number of stores to be built under Part G.3
of the Project; (v) roads program under Part G.4 of the Project;
(vi) credit requirements under Part G.2 of the Project; and
(vii) staffing requirements of MOA's Divisions for purposes of
carrying out the Project, both at headquarters and at field levels
including estimates thereof for the two-year period next following
such twelve-month period;
(e) "PMC" means Produce Marketing Corporation, a corporation
established by the Borrower's Act No. 14 of 1973;
(f) "Co-op Lesotho" means Cooperative Lesotho, a cooperative
established by the Borrower's Proclamation No. 47 of 1948;
(g)  "LADB" means the bank established by the Borrower's Act
No. 5 of 1976, called "Lesotho Agricultural Development Bank Act",
as published in Supplement No. 3 to the Borrower's Gazette No. 29
of July 30, 1976, and the term includes any successor thereto; and
(h) "Central Credit Management Unit" means the unit included
in Part C.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).


﻿Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges on such principal
amount. Any unwithdrawn balance of the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall automatically be cancelled on
the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the gocds and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1988, and ending Janu-
ary 15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, agricultural and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For purposes of the carrying out of Parts
A.1 and 2 (i), A.2 (iii), C.1, D.1, E.2, and F.1 and 2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ a Director for the BASP
Division and an Adviser thereto, a Workshop Manager, a Financial
Controller, an Extension Adviser, 2 Senior Agricultural Econo-
mists, and a Training Adviser and 5 trainers, respectively.
(b) The Borrower shall make each appointment for purposes of
paragraph (a) of this Section as and when needed for purposes of
the execution of the Project and after affording the Association a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the candidates selected for
each such appointment.
(c) Without in any way limiting the generality of the
preceding paragraphs of this Section, the Borrower shall cause its
Civil Service Commission to exchange views with MOA on the quali-
fications and experience of each candidate to join MOA's staff and
whose services will be rendered in connection with the Project;
such exchange of views to take place before the appointment of
each such candidate.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿- 6 -
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project and for BASP, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project
(including quarterly and annual reports on Project progress), its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without in any way limiting the generality of the
preceding paragraphs of this SeCtion, the Borrower shall, through
the BASP Division, furnish to the Association for its approval,
not later than October 31, 1978, and not less frequent than
yearly thereafter, an Annual Work Plan for the next following
twelve-month period.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than three months after the Closing Date or on
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish, not later than July 31, 1978, and maintain
until completion of the Project, a Project working committee under


﻿-7-
the chairmanship of MOA's Deputy Permanent Secretary (Technical);
such comimittee shall include all senior staff on the BASP Division
and all Chiefs of other MOA's Divisions, shall meet not less
frequent than monthly to review ongoing activities under the
Project, and shall prepare each Working Plan for purposes of
Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement; and
(b) take all steps as shall be necessary to convene a
meeting of all financing institutions involved in the financing of
the Project and of adequate representatives of the Borrower; such
meeting to take place on or about March 31, 1981, and to include
in its agenda: (i) a joint review of all activities carried out
and to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an assessment of the
appropriateness and effectiveness of such activities; and (iii)
the making of recommendations on all adequate action to be taken
for a better implementation of the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not transfer to LADB any
of the functions, powers or responsibilities of the Central Credit
Management Unit connected with the carrying out of the credit
program included in Part G.2 of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower: (a) undertakes to perform, in
accordance with the provisions of the United Kingdom/Lesotho Grant
1976, EEC Agreement No. 2095/LE, UNDP Agreement, GTZ Financing
Agreement and KFW Financing Agreement, all of its obligations
therein set forth; and (b) shall enforce each of the agreements
referred to above in this Section and each provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall keep, or cause to be
kept, such separate accounts and records as shall be adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the


﻿-8-
Auditor General of the Borrower or independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of such accounts
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning such accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. At the request of either party, the Borrower
and the Association shall exchange views on the selling prices of
fertilizers and on farm output prices paid to farmers; such
exchange of views shall, unless the Borrower and the Association
otherwise agree: (i) take place not less frequently than annually,
and (ii) involve consideration of such output prices levels which,
while being advantageous to the farmers so as to increase output,
will take into account forecasts of changes in international
prices, marketing and processing costs of farms outputs and other
related costs.
Section 4.03. For purposes of Section 4.02 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1978, or on such
later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, expand the membership of the Borrower's National
Fertilizer Committee to include inter alia a representative, each,
of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, BASP Division, MOA's Chief
Crops Officer, MOA's Chief Research Officer, the General Managers
of PMC and of Co-op Lesotho, and such other qualified persons
involved in agricultural projects (other than the Project) being
carried out in the Borrower's territory as the National Fertilizer
Committee may deem appropriate.
Section 4,04. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause all roads constructed under the Project, and
continue to cause such roads in the BASP area as are necessary for
the carrying out of the Project, to be adequately maintained and,
if so required, repaired, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices;
(b) cause all vehicles and equipment financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be adequately maintained and cause all


﻿-9-
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accor-
dance with appropriate practices;
(c) cause all maintenance equipment and workshops required
for the above purposes to be adequately maintained, and all
repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate practices; and
(d) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the above purposes.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the United Kingdom/Lesotho
Grant 1976 or the EEC Agreement No. 2095/LE or the
UNDP Agreement or the GTZ Financing Agreement or
the KFW Financing Agreement, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, any event specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Association shall have been furnished
with evidence satisfactory to the Association that funds equiva-
lent to the aggregate of not less than $7,560,000, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, are available to the
Borrower for purposes of the Project under the United Kingdom/
Lesotho Grant 1976 or the EEC Agreement No. 2095/LE or the UNDP
Agreewent or the GTZ Agreement or the KFW Agreement or any com-
bination thereof.
Section 6.02. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Agree-
ments mentioned in Section 6.01 of this Agreement, which has been
taken into account for purposes of such Section, has been duly
executed and authorized by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action, constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
respective parties thereto in accordance with their terms, and is,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement, if such be
the case, in full force and effect.
Section 6.03. The date of August 25, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 through 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
SectJon 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 1.1.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box MS395
Maseru
Lesotho
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINMIN                             330BB
Maseru, Lesotho
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By Is! M. Lerotholi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   800,000        75% (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(2) Vehicles and Equipment        400,000
(a) Imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Imported but                            90% of local
locally procured                       expenditures
(3) Internationally             3,000,000        100% of foreign
recruited staff                             expenditures
(4) Operating expendi-            800,000        75%
tures (including
salaries and wages
for locally recruited
incremental staff)
(5) Refunding of princi-          280,000       Amounts due
pal of Project Prep-
aration Advance,
withdrawn as of
Effective Date, in
accordance with
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                   720,000
TOTAL       6,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) thp term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Bor-
rower is also that of another country from the territory of which
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expendi-
tures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or any other country that
is member of the South African Customs Union on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association ay, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 14 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will cover the first five-year period of activi-
ties under BASP. BASP, in turn, aims to raise the level of income
resulting from farming activities in the BASP area by improving
the production potential of five basic food crops: maize, sorghum,
wheat, beans and peas. The Project consists of the following Parts
A through G, Parts A through F having been designed with the
specific purpose of strengthening MOA with a view to enabling MOA
to perform a central role in the overall supervision and implemen-
tation of BASP activities included in Part G.
Part A:   Establishment of BASP Division
1.   Establishment and operation within MOA of a new Division
which, headed by a Director, will be responsible for
coordination, supervision and implementation of BASP.
2.   Utilization by the BASP Division of the services of: (i)
an Adviser to the BASP Division Director; (ii) two
Agricultural Development Advisers; and (iii) a Workshop
Manager.
Part B:   Strengthening of MOA's Administrative Division
Provision to, and utilization by, MOA's Administrative
Division of supporting staff services, housing facil-
ities, vehicles and equipment.
Part C:   Strengthening of MOA's Accounting Division
1.   Provision to, and utilization by, the MOA's Accounting
Division of the services of a Financial Controller.
2.   Establishment and operation, within MOA's Accounting
Division, of a Central Credit Management Unit to be
headed by the Financial Controller included in Part
C.1 of the Project, such Central Credit Management Unit
to supervise and administer the credit program included
in Part G.2 of the Project.
3.   Provision to, and utilization by, the Central Credit
Management Unit of support staff, housing facilities,
vehicles and equipment.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Strengthening of MOA's Crops Division
1.   Provision to, and utilization by, MOA's Crops Division
of the services of an Extension Adviser.
2.   Provision to, and utilization by, MOA's Crops Division
of staff support services, housing facilities, vehicles
and equipment.
Part E:   Strengthening of MOA's Planning and Evaluation Division
1.   Expansion of the present responsibilities of MOA's
Planning and Evaluation Division to enable it to monitor
and assess the effectiveness of ongoing agricultural
activities and to provide guidance in day-to-day opera-
tions, adding to the activities being presently con-
ducted within MOA's jurisdiction, the activities carried
out, or to be carried out, under BASP, all under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Provision to,, and utilization by, MOA's Planning and
Evaluation Division of the services of two Senior
Agricultural Economists.
3.   Provision to, and utilization by, MOA's Planning and
Evaluation Division, of support staff services, housing
facilities, vehicles and equipment.
Part F:   Strengthening of the training activities of
the MOA's Extension and Information Division
1.   Provision to, and utilization by, MOA's Extension and
Information Division of the services of a Training
Adviser.
2.   Provision to, and utilization by, the Farmers Training
Centers located at Leribe, Matela and Mohales Hoek
(hereinafter called the Training Centers) of the
services of trainers in the fields of, inter alia, (i)
crop husbandry; (ii) animal husbandry; (iii) extension
services to farmers; (iv) farm machinery; and (v)
accounting, and production, by such Training Centers, of
leaflets and radio programs for purposes of Part G.1 (i)
of the Project.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Construction of additional facilities for the Training
Centers (including accommodation and workshop facili-
ties), and provision to and utilization by the Training
Centers of support staff services, a fellowship program,
office and agricultural equipment, and vehicles.
Part G:   Strengthening of agricultural services for the benefit
of the BASP Population and development of rural
infrastructure in the BASP Area
1.   (i) Improvement of extension services for the BASP
Population to provide farmers, on a regular
and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice
by MOA's extension staff on improved farming
practices; and
(ii) acquisition and use of vehicles and motor-
cycles for purposes of (i) above.
2.   Provision of credit to the BASP Population includ-
ing: (i) incremental credit requirements for
seasonal inputs such as fertilizer, commercial
seed, insecticides and animal feed; (ii) medium-
term credit (2-3 years) for, inter alia, farm
implements and animal contractors; and (iii)
long-term credit (4-5 years) for, inter alia,
tractors and spare parts and accessories therefor.
3.   Establishment of an effective distribution network
for farm input, through, inter alia, construction
of depots and lock-up stores.
4.   Construction and improvement of about 1,000 km
of feeder roads in the BASP Area.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B and/or C hereof, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth
in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall
(in addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guide-
lines) prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped,
whenever possible in accordance with sound procurement practices,
to form bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to paragraph 1 of Part D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 may be procured in accordance with Borrower's procurement
procedures, provided that such procedures are satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works may, subject to Part C hereof, be
procured in accordance with Borrower's procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 19 -
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 may be carried out on force account by MOA or by the
Borrower's Ministry of Works.
D.   Review of Tender Documentation and Procurement
Decisions by the Association
1.   Grouping of Contracts:
Before submitting to the Association the documents referred
to in paragraph 2 of this Part D, the Borrower shall obtain the
Association's approval:
(a) with respect to civil works contracts, for a complete
list of such contracts, including the estimated value of each, and
an indication of the way such contracts shall be grouped for
bidding purposes and a timetable for the award of such contracts;
and
(b) with respect to contracts for the purchase of goods: (i)
for lists of all items of equipment and vehicles required for
Parts A through F of the Project, including the specifications and
estimated unit and total prices of each item and indication of the
way such contracts shall be grouped for bidding purposes, and (ii)
for a schedule showing the approximate timing for procurement of
major groups of items.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 20 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
tower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of tlhe -idder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


