Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12296-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
sMALL TOWNS wATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 17, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12296 UG
Type: SAR
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank athorizadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Clrrency unit      -       Uganda Shilling (U Sh)
USS 1.00        =      U Sh 1174 (October 29, 1993)
U Sh I               US$0.00085'
SDR I        =       US$1.3934 (October 31, 1993)
US$ 1.00        =      SDR 0.7177
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF              African Development Fund
AfDB             African Development Bank
CTB              Ceatral Tender Board
DANIDA           Danish International Development Agency
DUIWD            Department of Urban and Institutional Development (in DWD)
DWD              Directorate of Water Development (formerly the Water Development
Department, WDD)
EEC              Europesn Economic Commission
FY               Fiscal Year of the World Bank Group, July 1 - June 30
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GNP              Gross National Product
*OU              Govermment of Uganda
GTZ              Gesellschaft fier Technische Zusammenarbeit
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA              Intemational Development Association
KfW              Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MOH              Ministry of Health
MNR              Ministry of Natural Resources (formerly the Ministry of Water, Energy,
Minerals and Environment Protection, MWEMEP)
MFEP             Ministry of Finance and Ectnomic P;anning
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NWSC             National Water and Sewerage Corporation
OMR              Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement
PIU-NWSC         Project Implementation Unit in NWSC
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
RC               Resistance Council
RTWSP            Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program
STW1P            Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project
TWST             Town Water and Sanitation Team
UNCDP            United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
WSC              Water and Sanitation Committee
WUA              Water User Association
WUG              Water User Group
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



OR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REP`UBLIC OF UGANDA
SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF AP?'lAL  REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJEC    SLTY ....................   i - iv
L              BACKGROUND
Counutyy Baacckggrdd ..................................          1
Economnic Overview  ..................................           1
SectOr   gairactn  ..................................    .       3
Present Coverage and Service Levels .. .................         4
Water and Sanitato  Sector Policy ............. .........        5
The Government's Programs in the Sector    .............         6
Sector Iegation  ...................................             8
Issues and Constraints ...................................       9
Implementation Eperience and Lessons Learned ......             10
Banik Assistance Sttat.eg.y .......                 ......      11
IRationale for II)A Involvement .......................... .    11
Prior Investmnent Levels .... .... .                   ...      12
H.             THE PROGRAM
Orligin ................................................        13
Water and Sanitation Conditions in the Program Area             14
Policies and Guidelines ....................................    14
Town Implementadion Cycle ..............................        17
Scope of the Program  ......................................    19
HL             THE PROJECT
Baclkground ........................................           21
Pnroject Objectives .      .......................................  21
Project DJescription        ................................. ......  22
Cost Estinates .......................................         25
Financing        ........................................      27
Procumment        .......................................     28
This document has a metricted distribution and may be used by necipients onbY in the perfofrmance
of fthir oMfcia duties. Its contents may QO otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authariztidonL



li.sbursenments  ..........................................        32
Specia Accounts  .. ..... *.**...**.*....*.. . ...*......          32
A uditir. q  ............................................          3 4
IV.                      G ]EE    FOR l           I lA    I ENTATION AND
OPERAnION AND hfiV47ECE
rgpasvizationz for I...lemntation   ........... ***** ** *  .......  35
Organization for Operation and    ienae   .......                  39
Pilot IzplJenmentadion ...........      ............ .....         4 1
Legal A     spweuts .................... .......... .........      42
Tariffs and Revenue Collection ...........................         42
P^roject Monitoring and Reporting .....................            43
Mid-Term  lRcTiewV   . ...........           .................     44
V.              PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Mvlain Benefits and                 ............. ...... .......   46
Poverty' Alleviation .....      ....    ................           47
nimpact on W m   ...........................       ........        48
Environnmental1Iipact ......... e......................            48
SJ-Qust.aina.bility.               .............. .......          49
PErojec t ]Riskes...-A ........ 0 ..... .*..#....  ........        5 0
VL                                                 AND lECD&MA2ION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations ..............              52
Conditions of CIedit Effectiveness .......................         54
conditions of D3isbursenment ................ ... *... * * *......  54
Recozm mendation ...............         .................         54



MST OF ANNEXES
Annex  1   Program Inivestments and Covesge
Annex  2   Letter of Sector Policy
Annex  3   Policies and Guidelines for Small Towns
Annex 4   TownImp           a   Process
Annex  5   Choice of Technology
Annex  6   Saniion and Hygiene Education
Annex  7   Project Description and Costs: Part A - Small Towns
Annex  8   Project Description and Costs: Part B - Irmja-Njeru
Annex  9   Project Description and Costs: Part C - stitational Stgening
Annex 10   Procurement Arrangements and Implementaion Schedule
Annex 11    Consultants' Services and Technical Assistance
Annex 12   Disbursements
Annex 13   Key Performance Indicatos
Annex 14    Supevison Plan
Annex 15   Documents in Project File
MAP         IBRD No. 25071
lths report is based on thefindings of a Bank aMpris mission *ch vtd Uganda In Aprll
1993. Mr. Gerhard Tsdwnnerl (S. Mwnipal Engineer, AM) was the Mssion Leader and
Task Manager. The mssion conistedofMessaiMmes. Rainer Bergthaler (Consuat on
Water Spply Enginering), Rama Oindran (Procume    eciafli, AF2EI), Fred 'sher
(Conslta   on T)ainig), Tosihiro Fk#wa (Urban PFiania Secaftt, AF2BI), JosePh
Gadek  anStadon Speciat, AFIS); Rowen Maiez (Opeain  Analyst, AF2), Denyse
Morin (nstwonal  ecIalist, Rurl Water aNd Sant  Grqi, Nairobi), Robert Roche
(Yalrigineer, AF41, and Wouter vn den Wall Bae (Consul    on Rural
4rucure). lhe peer revwrs wereMs. Paudine Boenna (AF2AE) and Mr. N.V.
Jaganata (7WUWS) Mr. Stephen J. WeLwnan and Mr. Frans X. Colago are the
Managing Dvsion  W  and Depaent Dictor, respety, for the operaion.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SMAL  TOWNS WATER AND SNATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SAY
Bimvwer:         The Republic of Uganda
ImplentIng       Directorate of Water Development (DWD);
Agency and       National Water and Sewerage COqoration (N WSC) for a pordon
Benftw:          of the credit
Credit Amount:   SDR 30.4 million (JS$ 42.3 million eqivaklent)
Tenrs:           Standard IDA terms with a matuity of 40 years
Relnng           Out of a total passed on to NWSC of approximaely US$ 22.0
Tens:            milion, 50 percent or approxmately US$11.0 mllion wodd be
passed on to NWSC as equity, and 50 percent relent at the
prevaiwng mnumn rate cuarged by commercial banks in
Uganda for commercial as to compnes, plus 3 percent,
repayable over 25 years incuing 5years of grace.  heforeign
exchange risk of the NWSC portion of the credit would be bomne
by the Govermnent.
Prject           The Project would support the Government's economic recovery
Objec,ves:       program by exending the rehabiliion ana upgrading of water
supply and sanitation services to towns that have sofar not been
covered. It would (i) inprove health conditions through better
water supply, ercreta disposal, waste water management, and
public hygiene; rii) alleviae povety and inmrove the lot of
women, and riii) reduce envirownental degr4ation  rough
better waste management.
Pwoject          The Project would provide 12 snal towns and Jirya with
Descpo:          biproved and sustainable water spply and sanitation through
ff) the rehabilitation and/or expnion of water supply and
sanitationfaciites; (ii) hygiene educaion related to water
spply and san=adon, (l) communiy paripation in planng,
implementation, operation, and maintenane of water supply and
sanitationfacilities; and fv) instittional strengthening, technial
assistance and training for the organwaons in the sector.



- ii -
Ben qAts:        The creation of water suly and san on systems woud
mprove the health and weUl-being of the populaion of the wns
in te project areaa A large share of the benefits woud go to the
poor by ncluding them In the coverage wih an appropriae
thology. Women's tadItional bud to proJde water ad
look ter the health of children would be kssened, and they
would have more tine to devote to other ativies, inclding
ncome generating acviies, as a result of imrovements In
water supply and sanitaon. Better sanaiton at a household
level woudd mean im ved healthfor the entiefamiy. The
Project would also bnng about enronmental Improve
thorough the safe disposal of acreta and waste water.
Risks:           The implmenion of the Government's adnistave
decentralirion policy, which was approved in July 1992, has
not yet progres.ved to a level where the new relationship betwen
centra governent and the district and town administraton is
cmpetely dfined. The risk of local goverment and cent
government nouonal colct does exist and needs to be
monitord Similarly, the newly esblished Water User Groups,
Water User Associatons, and Water and Saniaon Comm
would reqidre project  plem aon experiece beore dte risk
ofmanagement cots, due to overlapping responsiles and
i cdons, is removed. Periodicfollow-up and superivilon wuld
be proided by DWD mntoring the perfomswwe of the Water
User Groups and Assoiaions and dte reated Water and
Saion Commitee to   ue dtat ts concern Is properly
addressed. here is a risk that the technical and managerial
capabilities of the town and district adninistrtons may iially
be insficientfor ffec#ve projec  mpmentaton Selec sff of
the town adminsraons and possibly some personnelfin the
distr  adminisations directly involed wUh project
impleenr,uaion woUld receive appropriate tralng through the
Project. Back-u4p armngemens would be made by DWD to
supponr the wn  admin sratons paMcular  in the early stages
ofproject impenton.



- i# -
EAimated Caft                        EaPD       laaL               % f
* -    fs$ mXo -
Small Towns                          11.1      4.4     15.5       39
Jlqa-Neru                            15.4      5.6     21.0       52
instiutiona Strengtwng                0.9      1.1      2.0        5
Project Prepaton Facty                1.2      0.3      1.5        4
Total Base Cost                      2&6      11.4     40.0      100
Contingencies
Physkal                            2.4      0.8      3.2
PrIe                               3.4      1.4      4.8
Sub-Towl of Contingendes              5.8      2.2      8.
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   34.4     13.6     48.0
Taxes and lJuies                               0.8      0.8
TOTAL COST NET OF rAE AN             34.4     I2.8     47.2
DU77ES
mmndn~~~g rsEd                          "        d        % of
- (S$ nmon) 
IDA                                  34.4      7.9     42.3       88
Governme of Uganda                             2.5      2.5        5
NWSC                                           3.2      3.2        7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   34.4     13.6     48.0      100
£&Ukak4 IDA Dlsbwwemets
DA Fiscal Year    1994   1995   196   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
mS muun)
Anual             4.0    5.2    6.2    9.5    6.1    4.7    3.7    2.9
Qmudanulae        4.0    9.2   IS.4   24.9   31.0   35.7   39.4   42.3
Rate of ReJwi&                Not 4pplabl
Poveriy CWego:                Program of Targeted Inwriedons
Staff Apnkal Repoit No.:      12296-UG
Map No.:                      LORD 25071



L BACKGROUND TO THE WATER AND SANITATION SECiOR
CoiwmvBACKGRUND
1.01       Uganda is a landloed country tounded by Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda,
Zaire, and Sudan. It covers 241,000 square kllometers of which about 20 pcent is
takn  up by numerous waterways and lales, most notably the White Nile River and the
Ugandan part of Lake Victoria. Uganda is situted on a plateau with four-fifths lying
at an altitude of 1000 to 1500 meters, due to wich most of the country enjoys a
pleasant clmate with plenty of sunshine and =in. Ther is litte seasonal variation in
temperature because of its positon along the Equator. Mean maximum tem es
range from 200 C at night to 350 C during the day with mean minimum tempees
from 80 C to 230 C. Annual rainfll varies fom about 1,400 mm per yea in the
southern part to 500 mm in the arid northeast. There are normaly two dry seasons per
year, one from December to February, and te other in June and July.
1.02       The population, as enumerated in the 1991 census, is 16.7 million and
growing at about 2.7 percent annually. Per capita GNP is esmated to be US$170
(1992). About 90 pent of the population is rural. Due to Uganda's prolonged
political and economic diffules in the past, migion to urban ares was relatively
low, but as the economy improe this is expected to increase. Kampala is by far the
Iargest urban center with a 1991 census popuation of nearly 800,000. The next largest
town is JinJa with a popuation of roughly 60,000 followed by 8 towns with populati., is
between 30,000 and 60,000; 6 between 20,000 and 30,000; 14 between 10,000 and
20,000; 26 between 5,000 and 10,000; and 36 towns between 2,000 and 5,000.
ECONOMiC OVRVIERW
1.03       The political and economic turmoil in the country during the last twenty
years has resulted in a severe decline in the living standard of most Ugndans. At
independence (1962) Uganda had one of the strongest, most promising economies in
Sub-Saharan Africa. The country is not well endowed with minerals or fossil fuel, but
has rich soils and a favorable climate for agriculhtu  producdon. It has extensive
surface water resources as well as a very large hydroeectic potentil which has only
rlly been exploited at Owens Falls, the headwaters of the White Nlle. Agriculture
was the backbone of the country, contributing 76 percent of GDP. The industial
sector, though small, supplied the economy with some basic inputs and consumer goods
and contributed foreign exchange through the export of textiles and copper. Uganda's
tansport system was regarded as one of the ;,est in Sub-Saharan Africa and included
access to an effective network of road, railway, and air tansport faities. Along with
a well established administrative network and infstrure, Uganda's health services
were one of Africa's best. Although school enrollment was considered to be low, the
country had developed a reputation for quality education at aU levels. The years



- 2 -
immediately after independence demonsed the coutry's eotomic strength: real
GDP grew by 5.8 percent per annum from 1962 to 1970, with per capita GDP
increasing more an 2.8 percent per annum.
1.04       The period of political unrest that sed in 1970 reversed the economic
and social progress athined to that point. Skilled pesn el fled the country, private
industries were converted to parastatals, and professional standards in the public service
eroded. The breakup of the East African Commumity in 1977 accderated the decline,
snce the Community had provided a thiving market for Uganda's industa exports
and a reliable access route for foreign trade. Further damage was caused by the
destuction and lootng that occuned during the 1978/79 war.
1.05       When the National Resistance Movement took over the Government in
January 1986, macroeconomic imbalances fueled inflation and contributed to an acute
forgn exchange scarcity. Real GDP had declined by about 1 percent per year during
the preceding 15 years, the greater part of the nation's major trn roads and vehicle
fleet had been lost. and industi enterises lay abandoned. Even the agricultural
sector had been disruptel in some areas as farmers fled their firms t urban centers in
sech of refuge. The total extera debt serice laid claim to over 40 percent of export
enings.
1.06       By 1986 Government ependiture on education was one third of that in
the 1970s; health expenditure, one tenth; and infstuctre ependiture, one quarer.
This resulted in a massive disruption of essendal services and a sharp decline ir. the
country's caacity to sustain public seices. Although school enrollment continued to
grow, the deterioration of facilities and sca"ity of learning matrials resulted in an
increas in the illiteracy rate. Various health programs were discontinued. Measles
became the leading cause of child deaths in hospitals, and deaths from other
preventable diseases, such as whooping cough, more than doubled. Outbreaks of
waterborne and water-related diseases increased as a result of broken-down rural and
urban water supply systems and unsanituy conditions created by thfe virtua absence of
human and solid waste removal services in the towns. In rual areas the problem
stemmed from a lack of both user contributions and Government finances to pay
opertons and maintenne coot, and in urban areas unreaListic tariff structr  (not
adjusted to inflation and devaluation) led to insufficient funds to operate and maintain
the syems. The years of civil war and displacement of popuations also led to the
rapidly increaing  rad of the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).
1.07       In 1987 the Government intoduced its Economic Recovery Program, the
prncipal objectives of which were to promote economic rebabilitation and growth,
restore intenal financi stability, lower inflation, and reduce the imbalance in the
extenal accounts, particulaly through the expansion of non-traditional exports. In the
period of PY88 to FY91, real GDP growth avged about 6 percent per annum 3nd
the annual average infladon declined sharply from 168 percent in FY88 to about 28
percent in PY93 and frther to around zero in mid-1993. The economy continued to



-3-
fe severe extenal payments preures, mainly due to the dramatic fal in
coffee prices and recntdy the decline in coffee production. A number of policy
iniives undertakn tently by the Govment, including liberaliaon of the
exchange rate and of coffee producer prices, lower taxes on coffee producdon, and an
improved investment climate together with increasd financial asstance from donors
have helped ease the pressure on the balance of payments.
SECTRORGANAIMON
1.08        The following organizations are responsible for the water supply and
sanitation sector:
a. The AMlnsty of Natwrd Resourcs (MNR), which mntil July 1993 was called
the Ministy of Water, Energy, Minals and Environment Prtction,
oversees the two major agencies concemed with water supply and sewerage,
that is the Direcorate of Water Development (DWD) and the Naional Wat
and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC). The Ministry's  nintal prction
portfolio also has obvious water sply and sanitaion secc- implcations.
b. The l*wvtornte of Water Development (DWD), until recently the Water
Development Deqartment, is part of MNR. It is reponsible for water
resourceS management and for urban and runl water supply not under NWSC.
At the time of tie NWSC decree in 1972, the self-accounting urban local
authorities lost their responsibility for water supply and sewerage. NWSC
assumed responsiblity for the Kampala, Jinja, and Entebbe water supply and
sewerage systm and DWD became responsible for all remaining sysems.
Towns which are not self-accounting were previously the responsibilit of the
Ministry of Works, but were similarly placed under DWD. In 1987/88
NWSC assumed the responsibility from DWD of the systems in Mbale,
Tororo, MasaRa, and Mbarara after extensive  ilitation by DWD, and
similarly in 1992 for Oulu and Lira.
c. The National Water and Sewerage Corporalo,s (NWSC) is a parstaa
oanization responsible for water supply and the waterbone sewere
disposal stems in nine towns: Kampala, Jina, Entebbe, Mbale, Tororo,
Masaka, Mbarar, Lira, and Gulu (see Pam. 1.08(b) above).
d. The MiLly of Local Govermment (MOLG), under the Urban AutAorities
Act, is currently responsible for sanitaion in urban areas not undex NWSC, as
well as community mobilization. MOLW apponts senior staff in the urban
administrations and detemines whether urban authoxities (i.e. Municipalies,
Town Councils and Town Boards) are self-accounting. An uan authority
clssfied as "self-accounting" is permitted to colect, maintain, and disbr
its own revenues. MOLO has primary responsibility for the implemen of



-4-
tie Government's decentaliaon policy which delegates considerable powers
to the district level. The decentralization policy has not yet been ftlly
implemented, laving some unceanty about the extent to wh
administrative responsibility will ultimately be transfere to local authorities.
e. Munipa and Disd  Mbkfvtons -  Municipal councils' are self-
accounting and contain a Health Inspectorae Department which is responsible
for health inspection, promotion of environmental health, promoto and
inspection of on-site sanitaion facilies, einptying of septic tnks, and refuse
collection and disposal. Urban authorities which are not self-accounting are
serviced by te distict administration for healti related is.
f. The MIAny of Health (MOM) is respons!hle for primary healti cae in rural
areas and is involved in ruml sanitation and the upgrding of sping
catchments. Small towns which are not self-accounting are regarded as rural
areas in terms of administration, and the district health staff is responsible for
health inspect  and promotion of sanitation. MOH also operates some water
sipply systemns for hospitals.
g. The Mfnity of lMance and Economic Plawiag (MFP) is responsible for
investment planing and aid caordination in all sectors, negotions with
donors, and the monitoring of aid disbursements. MBPW plays an active role
in the decentralization process curently being implemented in the public.
sector, giving the districts more responsibilites, includimg m the water suply
and sanitation sector. The budget allocations to the different secton
apportiond to the districts and urban authorites are decided between MFBP
and the Ministry of Local Government.
h. Other O oankas -  A number of bilateal and multeral exnal
assistance agencies are involved in the sector (see Chater E). National and
inrnational non-governmental organizations, including some churches, are
involved pzimn ifr  in rural programs and sometimes in peti-urban areas. The
private sector is involved mainly in the implementation of development
project.
PBEMT COVERAGE AD SERVICE LEVEl
1.09        With the return of relaive stability in the late 1980s, both urban and
rural water supply systems have received increased attention with coverage slowly
retrning to the levels of the late 1960s when sector services were at their peat
A dndWon di di po of dmlnWm Jh =De bewoon Milpo Counib (or MuaIoauhhs). T1wn Cou=eK Tom
Nooi*, nd Tmh_ C.tm.



1.10       Aesn to water In r&a war  -  Out of the 34 urn centers in
Uganda with some form of existing piped supples, 24 towns depend on surfce water
sources and 10 on groundwater. In the 9 major towns operated by NWSC (Entebbe,
Gulu, Jinja, Kampala, Lira, Masak, Mbale, Mbar ad Toro) about half of te
nhabitants get ther dnklng water fom the piped nework The average distribution
of different types of service povided by NWSC is as follows: public stadposts, 45
percent of aWl supplies; private yard taps, 25 percent; and house conmectons, 30
percent. Design consumption figures for the NWSC schemes range from between 30
liters per day for standpost users to 250 liters per day for multiple household taps in
high income areas. Most of the water supply insllam winurban areas not served by
NWSC, that is tIose under DWD, have virtually ceased to function due to the near
absence of financing for operation and maintenance. It is etmated that only about 15
pecent of the population in the small towns have an adequate improved water supply
(see Para. 5.02).
1.11       Access to waterin namlaras -  It is estimadat 20 percent of the
ral popuation (90 prcent of the total popuation being rural) has access to safe water
supply, mainly from boreholes with bandpumps and protected springs. The remainaer
has to cary water, sometimes over a consideable distce, from unimprved and often
polluted sources. Until recently the maintenance for the handpumps and protectd
springs has been the responsibility of DWD, which due to a severe lack of financial
resouees and equipment has not been able to keep most of them in good opatng
condition. Under vaious rural water supply projects now being implemented the shift
of reonsibility for maintnance to the community leve has consideably improved the
reliability of the installa.
1.12        Sataton ceoverage -  There are 13 public sewge systems in
Uganda designed to serve about 20 percent of the respecdve uran populations, but it is
estimated that only half of the deign population is being served due to a lack of system
maintenance. Another 10 percent of the total urban population is estimated to be
served by septic tanks and 40 pernt by pit latrines; about 30 percent of the urban
popuation has no adequate sanitation facilites. While n#ral household latrine coverage
has fallen in absolute terms since the 1960s, there remains a high level of covera&e
with at least some form of basic, if not hygienic, latine. Estimates indicate that
approximatly 60 percent of rual households have latrin, but only 10 to 15 percent
of these are improved latrines, that is eitr with a hygienic concret slab and/or a vent
pipe.
WATE AMD SAAION SEmR PO)UCY
1.13        In 1989 the Govenment of Uganda issued the Water Supply and
Sandtation Sector Developmen Strategy and Acdon Plan i which the strategy for the
water and sanitation sectr was redefined in the context of the changing conditions in
Uganda. The primary polic tent of t4e stategy are:



- 6 -
a. Further strengthening of the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
(NWSC) into an oi     ation able to develop and operat urban water supply
and saunittion systems on a self-accounting, commercial basis;
b. Strengteing of the Direcrate of Water Development (DWD) enaling it to
fcilite development and operadon and maintenance of water supply and
sanitaion systems in all nual areas and urban areas not covered by NWSC;
responsibiqty for managng water resources and providing technical advice on
all water mas, including the establishment and management of operation
and maintenance systems at the community level;
c. Promotion by DWD of communty management, opeation, and maintenance
of water supply facilites, such as spring catchments, hand dug wells,
boreholes fitted with handpumps, and simple eticulated systems under the
supervision of resistance councils (RCs); and
d. Creation of a sound financial foundation for the sector through the setting of
user charges sufficient to cover operation, maintenance, replacement, and, to
the xent possible, investments in new works; in rural areas, individual
communities will be reponsible for operatng and maintaining their facilities
and will have to pay a portion of the capital costs of their system.
1.14        Another study in 1989, Organion and Mnagement ofde Water
Deweopmnt Deparnet, recommended that the Department should be restuctr
into an organization with decentalized   ration and maintenance functions down to
the district and community levels.
T%M GOvzRN      'S z PoGRAM iN TH SEOR
1.15        Since 1988 DWD has been addressing the major constraints and issues of
the sector, in collaboration with extemnal asstn   agencies, in a more concerted
hion. The Government's investments in the sector are summarized in Annex,
Tabk A. Implementation of the recommendations contained in the two studies, that is
the Water Suply and Saitation Sector Development Strategy and Action Plan (Pam.
1.13) and the Organzadon and Managemen f the Water Developnent Deparment
(Para. 1.14), has led to the fomulation of three basic national prgrams.
1.16        Urban Prga - by NWSC-  In the late 198Os and early 1990s seven
urban water supply and sewerage systems serving one million people were rehabilitated
with assistance from Austria, Germany, IDA, ADF/AfDB, and EEC. Management
rpniility for these syems was vested in NWSC. When NWSC was established in
1972, it was made responsible only for Kampala, Entebbe, and JImja. Masa,
Mbara, Mbale, and Tororo were added in 1989 and Gulu and Lia in 1992. Since the



-7-
wat tariffs are uniform throughout the country, differences between the towns In the
cost of producing water and other variations, such as the extt of mering, colecdon
rate, and prevalence of Govemnment instituons, result in a diffeent profit or los in
the differt towns. Thus the larger towns, mainy Kampala and Entebbe, operat at a
profit while the others operate at a loss. Through its centralized management and
accounting system NWSC has provided cro-subsidies between the towns to break
even overall, but NWSC may not be able to remain financially viable if more towns,
which are likely to operate at a loss under the cunrent pricing policy, are added. While
most inhabitants of the nine towns are served with water by NWSC, ther is a
significant proportion of the popuaton in these urban areas which is not. In an effmt
to extend its service to lower-income users, NWSC has attempted to reach low-income
consumer through the registration of communal taps under an individual's name, with
Limited success. Provisions are made in the proposed Small Towns Water and
Snitation Project to remedy this siuaion in fimja (see Para. 4.05).
1.17        Natonl Rural Water Supply and Santaoi  Progn m - by DWD -
DWD has been carrying out a comprehensive rural water supply program tbroughout
the country primarily with the help of UNICEF and DANIIDA. UNICEF is asisting
with te - South-West Intgated Project (SWIP) and with basic rehabilitation and
caaty building in the rest of the country (Water and Sanitaion Program, WATSAN),
while DANIDA is asistn  with Rural Water and Sanitation in Eastern Uganda
(RUWASA). A National Planning Strategy - Rural Water Supply Program wa
finalied in July 1991 with assstance from DANIDA, containing the policy and
procedures for the provision of water supply and sanitation serices for rural areas with
tie chief charactsic of community-based maintenance (CBM) of suitable
technologies, mainly imroved springs and boreholes with handpumps. For ease of
installation, maintenance and spare parts supply, one standard bandpump design is
being used throughout the country of the original India Mark HI qpe or Mark m, in
part imported and in part locally manufctred.
1.18        Rurml Towns Water and Saniatoi  Progman - by DWD -  This
program is contained in the Developmen Strategy and Acdon Plan and has been newly
added by the Government to its investment plans in order to fill the gap between the
large urban progrm under NWSC and the rural program, which does not cover the
smalle towns. The,e urban areas have some of the cha cs of rural areas, and
cannot be provided with piped water supply by NWSC on a financially self-sustanig
basis. The program therefore focuses on municipalites, towns, and trading centers not
under te responsibil  of NWSC, currently comprised of 60 towns (see Chapter H and
Annex 1, Tabk B). The chief characc of the program is that it employs a demand
driven approach to tie choice of technology, whereby the users are involved in the
selectio of technologies and assume the responsibility for the operon and
maintenance of the systems. The proposed Project is one of several in the program.



- 8 -
SECTR LUASLAlTON
1.19        The existing water legslation dates back to colonial and early post-
colonial times, requiring considerable modification to suit the current times. A water
legisation study was conducted under the IDA-assisted Second Water Supply Project
(Credit 2124-UG) and resulted in a draft of a new comnprehensive Water Ace It was
discussed at a worlshop in Kampala on Apfil 20, 1993, was finalized in May, and is
now awaiting enactment. To supplement the provisions of the Act, which was drafted
with considerable scope for modification of praces in a given framework of legally
specified principles, a set of water reguations witl shorty be prepared. The main
provision of the Act relevant to the proposed Project is the legal framework for the
status of the Water and Sanitaion Committees and Water User Associations as the local
organiz dons charged with operating and maintaining the water supply and sanitation
systems. Under the Act the Mnister in charge of the water sector will have the power
to delegat the resonbiity for managing the water and sanitation services, including
collection of revenue, to a designated entity.
1.20        Following is a chronological Lsting of the relevant past and existing
legislation in relation to water supply and sanitation:
a. Watenvors Act, 1929, amended In 1967- The act provides for the
establishment of water authorities in defined urban areas. Much of the Act is
devoted to methods of detemining water rates.
b. Water Bards.Act, 1958, amended in 1967-  The Act pides for Water
Boards to take over the acdvities and assets of the local water authorities; it
was repealed by the NWSC Decree of 1972.
c. Public Healh Act, 1935 - The Act gives local authorities the power to
prvd sanitation and refuse collection services, to prevent pollution and treat
water. It is thus implicit that local authorities have jurisdiction over water
supply and sanitation services where the NWSC Decree of 1972 does not
petain.
d. Urban AWhodAes Ac, 1958 -  The Act establishes the current local
Government structure, that is Municipalities, Town Councils, and Town
Boards. Local urban authorities are made responsible for the provision of
water supply, sanitaion and refuse collection where the NWSC Decree of
1972 does not pertain.
e. Nadoal Water and Sewerage Copomrdion Decree, 1972 - The Decree has
the effect of centalizing the management of all commercially viable urban
water supply and snitato facilities under NWSC. The Minister, through
statutory instruments, can make NWSC responble for any urban system.
The systems should be nationally operated on a nationally self-supporting



bas, that is some of the towns may cross-subsidize others, but the whole
operation should be financially viable. The possibility of receiving subsidies
from Government is also noted in the Act.
f. Natonal Resiace Councis and Commitees Statute, 1987 -  This statute
legally established the reistance council (RC) system. It provides for directly
elected village resistance councils (RC-l) and indirectly elected RCs at parish
(RC-2), sub-county (RC-3), county (RC-4), and district (RC-S) levels and the
National Resistance Council (the equivalent of a parliamnent) at the national
level.
1%Vn Are CoNSTAr
1.21        The main co-straint in the urban water supply sector is directly related to
the country's overall economic situton in that tariff levels have not kept up with
inflation, resulting in insufficient funds to pay for operation, maintenance, and
replacement of plant and equipment. Until recently, those consumers who were served
received water for free or at a nominal cost, giving the false impression that everyone
has a right to free water from a tap. One effect of this has been a high wastage of
water in the distribution system and by the consumers, which has only recently been
reduced in the towns under NWSC through a comprehensive program of leak detection
and repwr, block mapping and consumer registration, tariff increases and prompt
biling and disconnection for non-payment.
1.22        Other constraints and issues of the existing situation in the sector
arrangements can be summarized as follows:
a. The national decentraliion policy is now being impletrented, but it may take
several years until this process has been completed, and in the interim the
Project may require periodic revisions in the detailed organizational
arrangements to adjust for the state of the prevailing overall administrative
setup in the disticts.
b. Water supply and sanitation prqects in urban areas have so far addressed
mainly the demands of the middle and upper income groups. Another
approach will bave to be developed to reach the low income groups in the
future.
c. The staff of DWD responsible for the sector is accustomed to performing the
functions of an implementor in the sector, to construct, operate and maintain
water supply and some sanitation schemes. In the light of the new role of
DWD as a planner, coordinator, and regulator and of the a newly adopted
demand-diven approach to service, DWD needs to conduct a reotientation
program for some of its staff to equip them with the different skills needed.



- 10 -
d. The present rngement, under wlich spare parts for handpumps are imported
by UNICEF and distrbuted by the Govemnment is not susaable in the long
run and on a large scale. The importaion and distribution of spare parts needs
to be privatized, including components for piped systems.
1.23       The Government is aware of the sector constraints and is actively taling
steps to mitigate these through policy reformulation and program implementation in
order to maintain tariff levels commensurate with operation, mintenance, and
replacement costs and involve the communities more in opeation and maintenance.
IMPLTATXON   XDC   AMi LISSSNE;1AIWED
1.24        IDA has provided three credits to the Government in the wate sector,
for a Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit I 10-UG) in 1981, a Water Supply and
Sanitation Rehabilitation Project (Credit lS10-UG) in 1985, and the Second Water
Supply Project (Credit 2362-UG) in 1990. Despite changes in Government and a civil
war during the period of the first two credits, the projects were successfully
implemented, largely due to the dedication of the responsible Government officials who
carried out procurement and managed consultants and contractors under difficult
conitions. The first two projects were completed on time and without cost overruns
and the third is under implementation.
1.25       A Government program of US$120 million for the rehailitation and
cpansion of water supply and sanitation in Kampala, Mbarara, Mbale, and Masaka
ains at increasng water supply coverage from 50 percent to 80 percent in these towns,
but so far only the Second Water Supply Project has been financed. The responsibility
for project implementation was originally with a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
under the, then, Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, but was later
transfered to NWSC to assist in institutional capacity building. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) was consequently formed in NWSC, which NWSC plans to
give a permanent status by transforming it into a department. With the commissioning
of the EEC-assted Gaba II water treatment plant in Kampala in December 1992, the
production of treated wate icreased by about 30 percent.
1.26        The Northern Reconstruction Project (Credit No. 2362-UG), which
became effective in November 1992, has an urban and rumal water supply and sanitation
component, implemented by DWD. Rural water supply is based on community
participation in implementation and maintenance according to the general policy now
being foLowed in the country. Borehole drilling and handpump i ation began in
early 1993 in Kitgum D iict in one of the rumral areas with the highest incidence of
Guinea Worm. In the n mrn towns, only emergency repairs to piped systems and
sewerage facilities are being carried out.



- it -
1.27       Expence with water supply projects in Uganda and other developng
countries has amply demonstated the need for greatr participation of the beneficiaries
right from the planning stage in order to better reach low-income users and to obtain
geater sustainability of the installations once they are built. It was thought earlier that
pr-ojct should be designed and built under the joint directon of Government officials
and engineers according to standards related to the percved needs of the population,
on the one hand, and the available financial resources, on the other, and then handed
over to the beneficiaries for operation and maintenance. This proved to be only a slight
improvement over the old approach where the Government "provided" everything,
including the opertion and maintnance: most of the time the Government was still
saddled with maiaining 'its' schemes. The crucial factr seems to be the sense of the
communies' ownership: when they are involved from the planning stage and at the
same time required to contribute financially, the beneficiaries acquire a greater sense of
ownership of the installations which they hopefully would be willing - and able - to
maintain. In the last few years this approach has been widely used in water supply
progams in rral areas and is beginning to be applied also to urban areas, particularly
for low-income families.
BAK ASSANCE STRATGY
1.28       The objective of Bank Group strategy is to reduce poverty by supporting
the Government's efforts to accelerAt growth and employment and improve the
delivery of public services, particularly to the private sector and to vulnerable groups.
The Bank's emphasis is on accelerating growth in agriculture and industry and
supporting infrasuture developments, which has a direct impact on the efficiency of
the productive sectors. Support for human captal development and institutional
reforms are also key elments of the Bank's assistance strategy.
1.29       In pursuit of this strategy, the Bank would continue to assist in the
Government's development efforts by providing financial resources for the expansion
of water suply and sewerage projects in the low-income urban and rural growth
centers, fimly linked to institution building, manpower development, and
improvements in administive and financial management. As part of the ongoing
civil service reform, the Government is being encouraged to transfer to the private
sector certain functions which it has been performing up to now, including in the water
sector.
RAIONALE FoR IlDA NwOLvEmNT
1.30       The Project would complement and reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance
to Uganda for economic recovery and poverty alleviation. IDA involvement is needed
to (i) aist the Govenment in developing a policy framework for the sustainable
provision of water and sanitation to small and medium-sized towns which would be



- 12 -
followed by all fture donor-asted projects; (ii) initiate appropriate institudonal and
policy reforms for the water supply and aittion sector and provide technical
assistance to DWD; (iii) ptovide gudance for the development of the institutions
responsible for service delivery to ensure sustainabili and cost sharing with de
communities; and (iv) demonstate the integration of the conventional "top-down'
engineeng approach to project design with the "bottom-up" approach of involving the
beneficiaries in planiing, implementation, and operation.
1.31       Water and sewerage works in tie major towns were largely installed and
expanded in the 1950s and 1960s but little investment and maintenance was carried out
in the sector during the 1970s. Since then there has been an increasing donor
involvement mainly by IDA, ADF/AfDB, EEC, GTZ, and KfW in the  bilitation of
projects for urban water supply and sewerage, and by UNICEF (cofnanced by SIDA),
UNCDF, CIDA and DANIDA in rural water supply and sanitation. Furthermore, a
number of national and intenatonalnon-governmental organizatons are acdve in rural
areas. The preparadon of sector stategies and plans in Uganda was gready aided by
the UNDP/World Bank Water Supply and Sanitadona Prgram, under which a regional
office has been maintained in Nairobi since 1984.
1.32        Investment planning since the early 1980s has been guided by the
Rehabilitation Program 1982/83 - 1986/87, which was revised periodically. During
that period, investments in the sector averaged about US$14 million per year with 75
percent going to urban areas and 25 percent to rural. Investments provided from
Government resources have been limited to about 5 percent with the remaining 95
percent from donors. The Rehabilitation Progrm subsequently evolved into a
Rehabiion and Developm  Plan 1988/89 - 1991/92, emphasizing restoration of
productive capacity and infrastucture works. These and additional investnents under
preparaton for implementation through 1994/1995 total about US$ 260 million and are
shown in Annex 1, Table A. The total sector investments in recent years were
equivalent to some 7 percent of the overall national development budget, which gives
an indicaion of the high priority accorded to the sector.



1 13 -
L PFROGRAM FOR SM[AMTOWNS
OwnG
2.01        In 1988 the Government of Uganda initated a major water supply and
sanitation sector review which culm_nated in March 1989 in the isace of the Water
Supply and San on Scor Developme  S&tegy and Acdon Plan (see Pam. 1.13),
including plans for sector invesments for urban centers. Two national programs, one
for the nine large towns under the direcdon of NWSC and the other for nru  water
supply and saniti  under DWD, wen already under implementaton at tie time the
report was issued. The third national program to result from the stategy and action
plan was the Rurz Town Water and Santaton Program (caled the Progrm, see
Pam. 1.18) intended to address the remaining urban water supply ad sanitation needs.
Water supply and sanitaton cnd s in the urban centers which are not the
responsbility of NWSC had deteriorated significantly over the past two decades and
DWD was unable - with an iadequate budget allocation and graty diminished skilled
and motivated manpower following the civil war - to keep up even a nu m service
in these towns. While the urban population remained firly constant during the 1970s
and most of the 1980s due to civil strife, it rose substantally with the advent of peace
during the late 1980s and continued to do so into the 990s. The current averageu ban
populaon growth is edmated at 5 percent.
2.02        Also issued in 1989 was a report on the Organization and Managaem
of the Water Development Depaiet which concluded that the Department should be
to mak it in future responsible for planning, coordination and regon
Of water supply and snitation services, except for those under NWSC, instead of its
broader mandate at that time that included responbility for rehabilon, capacity
expansion, and operaon and maintenance. The report also recommeded the
strengtheing of DWD to prepa  it for the new role, and to decentralize opwations and
maintenance activities in the small towns to the district level or below.
2.03        During a project identification mission fielded by the World Bank in
1990, it was agreed that the Govemment will select the owns urgendy in need of water
supply and sanitaion impovements according to specfic criteia and formult a
policy for implemenng and susining uwban water and sanitation improvements. This
approach soon developed into a program for water supply and sanitation improvements
for small towns and nual growth centers, coveing some 60 pnority towns. One of the
charactriics of the aproach ta   was to assign greater rponsibility for the
opeaton of seavices to the user communities. The Bank subsequently provided
assitnce for project prpation, including the development of the policy guidelines,
which DWD developd futer into a prognm for about 60 towns, pachged into
veral groups (se Annex 1, Tabk B) for proposed financing by dffnt external
asssance agei. On-going uban projects under DWD and those under prepraion



- 14 -
were also brought under the umbrella of fte new policy guidelines, specifically Iganga-
MYityana with ADF asistance aaud a group of 6 westem towns with KfW.
WATR AM SAATION CONDMONS IN TME PROGRAM AMA
2.04        Thirty-five of the 60 towns in the Program are presendy served with
piped water, and about 30 percent of the population in the 35 towns is served with
piped systems. The remaining 70 percent of the population in the 35 piped towns and
all the population in the other 25 towns are served by boreholes, hand-dug wells,
protected springs, and traditional unimproved sources. All the 60 towns, with the
exception of a portion of Njeru, are the responsibility of DWD for development and
opation and maintenance of the water supplies. Under the Program, Njeru will
become pat of the geater Jiflja service area under the responsibility of NWSC. At
pent there is a short pipeine that extends from the Jinja water supply network across
the Owens Falls dam into Njeru. Aboul: half the population of Jinja is at present served
by a piped system that draws water from Lake Victoria.
2.05        Excreta disposal services in the 60 towns cover a much smaller
percentage of the population Oman improved water supply services. Of the 60 towns
only 6 have sewerage systems, all of which are in very poor condition with the
exception of Njeru. It is estimated that 60 to 70 percent of the populaton in the
Program towns have some Idnd of excreta disposal system, consisting of septic tanks (5
percent), improved latines (10 percent) and waditional uninproved latrines (45 to 55
percent). The remainder of the population is not served by any form of excreta
disposal. Njeru is partally served with sewerage under the responsibility of NWSC,
which however discharges raw sewage into the Nile. Responsibility for sanitation
se¢rces in the Program toWns lies with the Ministy of Health through the District
Health ispectorate.
POuCES ADm GuwDL
2.06        The Policies and GCUdelines (Annex 3) for the Program were developed
by GOU in uly l992 to provide a common approach to the sustinable provision of
improved water supply and sanitation services in the towns other tan those under
NWSC. The objective was to use a demand driven approach where communities plan,
oper  and maintan their systems; the private sector is involved in constction, spare
parts and rpair srvices; and Govemment finances part of the capital costs and
provides back-stopping for operation, maintenance and replacement (OMR). This will
allow otchnologies to be chosen according to the users' wiingness and ability to pay
for the recurrent costs and will direct the Government's scarce financial resources
towards the construcin of new systems rather than the operation and  tenance of
exisng ones. Most important, it will substantally increase the likihood that the
sysms will be kept in operating condition.



- is -
2.07        The main tenets of the Polides and Guidels are:
a. A demand driven approach will be used, giving the beneficiaries a choice in
what the key elements of their water and sniitation facilities will be. Different
priced wat supply optLons wil be presented with the aid of easily understood
information materials, from which beneficiaries will be encouraged to choose
the technology that gives them the highest serice level that they want, can
afford, and can maintain.
b. The implementation of the Program will start in one or two towns during a
pilot phase and will be expanded first to other towns under the proposed Small
Towns Water and Sanitadon Project and then to towns in other areas as
financing becomes available. Starting small will enable implementation
strategies and taining materials and methods to be refined and key personnel
tained before larger-scale investments are undertaken.
c. Communities, project personnl at the local and national levels, contctors,
and mechanics will be trained, and decision maks at all levels will be
involved. All ProgIam personnel will (i) learn new communications skdlls that
encourage dialogue and participation rather than rely on directives, (ii) master
effective planning slills including monitoring, evaluation, and problem
resolution, (iii) gain a thorough klowledge of the policies and the technical
details of the Progam, and (iv) obtain specialized training and practical
experience for their partcular assignments.
d. The responsibilities of each institution involved in Program implementaion are
as folows:
T The Directorate of Water Development (DWD) is the Government
agency responsible for the overall implementation of the Project
• The Naional Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) provides water
supply and sewerage/sanitation services in the NWSC designated urban
areas.
e  Consuant, comprised of a multi-disciplinary team made up of
internatiol and local community development, health and technical
(water and sanitation) speialist, will be contractd by DWD and
NWSC to assist in implementing the Program.
o Local AuWhonNes provide the organi fional ramework, political
support and monitoring needed to implement the Program.
O Water User Groups (WUGs) are composed of heads of households that
collectively plan and subsequently manage and collect revenue to opemte



- 16 -
and mantain their water and santation ficilities. They do this though a
Water and Santaion Conmmttee (WSC) tat they select and which acts
on their behalf. The WSC in turn appoints functionarieL as treasurer,
water careker, hygiene coordinator, etc., as appropriate in the local
situation. WUGs wil normally be on the RC-1 level or below and be
organized awound one water poi, stuch as a communai tap, handpump,
or improved spring. In some places an existing cooperative or other
community organization could be empowered to carry out these
functions.
*  Water User Assoitins (WUAs) are made up of a number of WSCs
that are joint together to manage a piped system (see Para. 4.03). Here
too an existing coopeave or other community organization could be
empowered to carry out these functions. The piped scheme witl be
managed either by staff paid by their respective WUA or by a private
entity under contract with the WUA. When there is a piped scheme the
WSCs will either manage revenue collection and pay water charges for
communal taps to their respective WUA, or the WUA will collect water
charges directly from the households.
*  Other ministdes, particularly the Ministry of Lcl  Government and the
Ministry of Health, share in project implementation by participating in
an advisory committee and by seconding staff at the local level to work
in local water and sanitation implementation offices.
e. To obtain a more effective utilization of Government investment funds, they
are channeled to communities that will maintain their systems, and
communities will be required to pay part of the capital cost and all of the
recurrent costs.
f. A large part of construction will be carried out by local contr s through
competitive bidding (see Paa. 3.24).
g. lMa;intenance of point source water supplies (open dug wells, handpumps and
spring catchments) will be the responsibility of individual WSCs.
Maintenance of piped water and sanitation systems will be the responsibility of
WUAs who may contrct OMR to a private entity and may enter into
maintenance contracts with the suppliers of pumping equipment. Water use at
standposts will be suprvised by individual WSCs which normally will also
coUect revenue from individual households. DWD will provide ongoing
technical and ortiona backstopping to WSCs and WUAs. Rehabilitation
work will be carried out by DWD at Government expense.



- 17 -
h. To maintain their water supply and seweae systems, communities will oe
given access to spare parts and components that need to be rep?ced within
about eight years. These will be available through the private sctor.
TOWN brs AION PRoCEss
2.08        The principles under which the Program is to be carried out as described
in the Polcies and Guielnes (Annex 3) translate operationally into the Town
Implementataon Process (Annex 4), the main steps of which are:
a. Pwmotion - When financing for a group of towns becomes available,
DWD will inform each town of its eligibility to participate in the Program,
and will follow up by holding meetings, first with senior district and town
officials and then with a broader spectrum of government prsonnel, elected
officials and conmunity representatives, to explain opportunities they have for
improved water supply under the Program. If a town is interested in
paricipating in the Program it will advance to the mobilization phase.
b. Mobiization - At the start of the mobilization phase each town will
establi  an office for use by the local extension staff. The extension staff will
be composed of community development and health pesonnel seconded from
line ministries, community development and technical speialists from the
consultant, and community leaders. Their initial job will be to work with
local RC members to inform the whole community about the Program; to
identify WUGs; and to help these groups undertake an overall needs
assesment with special refeence to water and antation. Those WUGs that
want to further consider their options for imprwved water and sanitation
facilities will then be asisted to form WSCs. During this process partiular
attention will be paid to the involvement of women and minority groups to
ensure widespread participation in the planning process and thereafter in the
management of the system. At the end of the mobilization phase the
communities will be required to submit a construction grant application to
DWD through their extension staff and to deposit a commitment fee, later to
be applied toward their contribution to the construcdon cost. The constuction
grant application will specify the responsibilities of the beneficiaries and the
Government in the Project and will include the names and skills of those
serving on the WSCs. At this time the extension staff will confirm the
accuracy of the information furished and the ability of the WSC members to
carry out their plnning and management functions. Where necessary,
additional ornizatonal work and stengthenng of the WSCs will be
undertakn. The findings of the extnsion staff will be submitted to the
district adm  on   strict Executive Secretary) and DWD. Duing this
perod the consultant will also make a preliminary assessment of water



- 18 -
reorces and the likely suitability of springs, dug wels, boreholes and surface
supplies in the town.
c. Phwriafoay Planing and Design -  Planning will start with the extsion
staff assisting individual WSCs to assess the water, sanitation and health
situation in the comm,'nity, during which a problem idendficadon exercise will
be carried out. The WSCs will then undertake a similar exercise with other
interest groups with adequate provisions for the representation of women. The
findings of each group will then be discussed with the extension staff and
presented at a WUG meeting where the community will review the
assessments and the different perspectives of the various groups. This meeting
will reach arement on whether or not water supply and/or sanitaion is a real
priority; if sot, the planning process will be teminated in the pardcular WUG
area. Those VUGs that want to proceed will then get their WSC to prepare a
map of the water sources in their area and discuss the technical options that are
open to them, including the level of service offered by each, their capital and
rwurrent costs, and operation and maintenance requirements (see Choice of
Technology, Annex 5). Those WSCs that want to join together to manage a
piped system will form a WUA. Physical surveys and preiminary deigns
will be made for the options to be presented in the community Facites and
Mawagement Plan, to be submitted to the district administn and DWD to
verify that they conform to Consnwdon Grant Gudeln  and that the
community will in fact be able to live up to its commitnent, tat is that they
will be able to afford the chosen technology and are capable of manging it.
Upon approval, the final design will be prepared, and a construction contract
will be let after the community has deposited its cash contribution for
construction and operation and maintenance in a joint signatory account.
d. Construco&  -  The construction work will be contracd through
competitive bidding. Where the beneficiaries can effectively contribute labor
to construction as an in-kind contribution to the investment cost, such as for
the digging of dug wells and trenches for a piped network, the extension staff
wil organize this work with the help of local officials.
e. Opernaon and Mainteweace -  The Facilites Managem    Plan will deail
the operation and maintenance responsibilities which wil rest with the
communities. Generally, individual WSCs will maintain point source water
supply systems with the assistance of private mechanics for diflicult repairs.
Maintenance of piped water and sanitation systems will be the responsibility of
WUGs which will nomally contract OMR to a private entity. DWD and the
extension staff will provide technical and organizational backstopping to WSCs
and WUAs.



- 19 -
SCOPE OF  Z   tOGRAM
2.09        The Government's Program of which the proposed Small Towns Water
and Sanitation Project is a part includes about 60 priority towns and rural grwth
centers with preset populaons of between 500 and 40,000, totaling 597,00 (see
Annex 1, Tabl B). These were seleced from among a total of 270 municipalities,
towns, rural growth centers, and trading centers based on the following criteria:
• Sizable populaion,
o Urban administrative status,'
o District headquarters status,
*  Existing DWD or NWSC facilities and opational status,
o Availability of existing data,
o Presence of health and education institutions,
o Existence of, or potential for, industries,
o  Existin in=fastructure avaiabilty such as electricity,
* Development projects in the vicinity,
o High potential for financial sustainability, and
o High beneficiaries' wilingness to pay for improved services.
2.10        Of the 60 towns, 6 are classified as municipalies, 31 as Town Councils,
i 1 as Town Boards, and 12 as Trading Centers. The urban status to some degree also
rflects the town size. Thirty of the towns (50 percent) are district headquarters. The
60 Program towns listed in Annex 1, Tabk B, have been grouped by DWD into 7
financing packges for the purpose of obtaining exten  assistance, that are clustered as
much as possible to mmimize logistical difficulties. The Govemnment intends to use the
approach outlined in the Policies and Guidelines as the foundation for all projects under
the Program and has communicated this to all the interested donors. One of the first
financing packages is the Project proposed for IDA financing.
2.11        Project implementation is under way in six towns in Western Uganda
(Fort Portal, Kabale, Kasese, Masindi, Mubende, and Hoima), with financing from the
Kreditanstalt fier Wiederaufbau (KfW) of approimatey DM2 million (about
US$14.7 million). A Technical Appraisal Report for these towns was peared in May
1992, and implementation started in the beginning of 1993, incorporating some
adjustments which became necessary by the introduction of the Policies and Guidelines.
In July 1993 the African Development Fund, an affiliate of the African Development
Bank, preappraised the rehailitaton and expansion of water supply and sewerage in
Iganga and Mityana, with a combined population of 43,000 (1991) and an estimated
project cost of $5.8 million. Discussions are in an advanced state with the Austian
Government for assistance witi towns in the southwest (Kisoro, Muko, Kabirizi,
Hamurwa, Muhanga, Kisizzi, Rwashamaire, Kanungu, Butogota, Kyaznga, Mbirizi
and Kinoni), and with DANILA for assstance with towns in the eastern part of the
I MuneWy, Town Counci, Tows Basd, orTmnlug Cwer



- 20 -
country where the RUWASA Project is bing impeed (Ngogwe, Buikwe,
Kayunga, Kaimba, Namasgali,  m a, Kaliro, Budaka, Pallisa, Mulono, and
Kamuli).



- 21 -
lllL TE PROJECT
]BACKGRODNiD
3.01        The Small Towns Water and Sanitaon Project would poide improved
water and sanitaton for one of the groups of towns packaged by GOU for
implementtion with donor assistane from among the 60 ptiorty towns in the
Government's Rural Towns Water and Sanitaton Program (see Chapter I). It wodd
be the first one in the Program to follow the newly-estabsd Poicies and Gudnes
(Annex 3) for the provision of improved water supply and sanitation in urban areas not
under the responsibility of NWSC and would thus be the model for a demand-drven
approach whereby the communipcipate in the planning of the inations
(within given physical and o on    constraints) make a p ined financial
contribution, and uldmately oprate and maintain the systems.
3.02        Of the 12 towns included in the Project (apart from Jinja) three have
some piped water supplies (Kalisizo, Njeru, and Wobulenzi) which are in fair
(Kalisizo) to good (Njeru and Wobuleni) condition. Only Njeru has a sewerage
system, covering a small portion of the town which is functioning well under NWSC
management. In he remWning towns water is drawn from boreholes with handpums,
hand-dug wells, springs, and traditional sources such as rivers and lakes.
Approximately 30 percent of the population in the project towns is served with
improved water supplies and 10 percent with hygienic sanitation installations. Busia,
with a population of 28,000, depends on 5 handpumps, 20 open wells, and 9 springs
for water supply and has no other sanitation arangements besides pit latrines.
oJECr OBjEcwnvEs
3.03        The broader objectve of the Project is to support the Government's
honomic recovery program by extendivg the rehabilitation and upgading of water
supply and sanitation seices to urban areas that have so far not been covered. The
specific objectives are to:
a. improve health conditons through better water supply, excreta disposal, waste
water management, and public hygiene;
b. alleviate poverty and improve the lot of women; and
c. reduce envirnmental degradation through better waste management.



- 22 -
3.04        The Project would provide 12 small towns and Jinja with improved
water supply and sanitation, consisting of: (i) rebiliion and/or exnsion of water
supply and sanitation facilities; (ii) hygiene education related to water supply and
sanitation; (ill) community paticipation in planning, iplemention, opeaion, and
maintenance of water supply and sanitation facilides; and (iv) instiutonal
strengthening, technical assistance and taining for the oionsin the sctor. One
of the Project components is the rehabilitadon and expandon of water supply and
sewerage in Jinja, to be expanded to include Njeru in a greate rmja-Njeru sere area,
implemented by NWSC, while DWD would be responsible for prject implemenion
in the other I Itowns (Annex , Table C).
3.05        The approach taken in the Project diffen from the custmary assessment
of the needs of the population in the project area followed by planning and construction
by an implementing agency, the result of which has often been that the beneficiaries
were unable or unwilling to cover the costs of opeting and maintaining the schemes.
In this Project the future beneficiaries would instead be involv-d in the plnning and
implementation of the schemes and contribute financialy dependimg on the service level
that they choose within the given technical and o ional constraints.
3.06        The water supply technology in the Jinja-Njeru servie area would
consist of a piped system operated by NWSC, and the consumers would have a choice
between subscribing to a household connection or a communal tap. In the other I1
towns the choice of water supply technology would usually be between boreholes vwth
handpumps, protected springs, and piped schemes of varing sizes. For sanitaion the
choice of technology would normally be between different kdnds of pit latrin, septic
tanks, and sewerage.
PaI A:      Smal Towns  (US$19.4 million')
Responble Agency:  DWD                          See Annex 7
Description
3.07        The water supply and sanitation fclties in the following 11 towns
would be rehabilitated, expanded, and in some cases newly constructed, depending on
their existitg state: Busia, Kalisizo, Kyotera, Lugazi, Luwero, Lyantonde, Malaba,
Ntungamo, Rakai, Rukungiri, and Wobulenzi. For water supply fte tehnologies
would typically consist of piped water systems of vaying sizes, ranging from a snall
distribution network without water teatment to a large piped network with water
treatment; boreholes or wells equipped with handpumps; and proected spings.
Sanitation improvements would typically consist of the upgading or construction of pit
laines of different designs, rehabilitation or constction of septic tank, and
I dmnwwd tota ct of onsot, duding contswechag, tes, ad do.



- 23 -
reabilitation or construction of swers and sewage treatnent work   e   6:
Santation and Hygine Educaion).
3.08        Also included in the scope of work are the design and supervison of
construction; arrangemets for the sustinable operation of the schemes once they have
been completed; hygiene education; and rehabilitation of office buildings for the eleven
towns. Studies; technical assistanc; and vehicles, equipment, spare parts, and
chemicals would be procured for the 11 towns under Part A of the Project and for other
towns in the Govemment's Program. Training that is direcdy related to project
implementation is included in the eost estimates for Part A, while all other training,
related to capacity building beyond the Project and for opeaton and maintenance of
the works that would be constrcted under the Project, is included in Part C: Capacity
Building. For a detailed description and cost estimates for Part A see Ann  7.
Implemntton
3.09        Preliminary designs for a mix of the technologies in each town were
prepared by DWD with the help of consiltants as part of the prepations for the
ProjecL The final mix of technologies would be detmined through the participation
of the community and would be based on the given physical conditions (such as the
available water sources, topography, and housing density) and the users' willingness to
pay (Town Iplemenaadon Process, Annex 4). MNR would submit z diraft Letter of
Invitation (including Terms of Reference, Short List of Firms, Supplementary
information for Firms, and draft Contra) for the selection of a firm for design and
supervision of the 11 towns to IDA for review within one month of prqect
effectiveness. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negodations ta
DWD woud establsh a satsfactory system of spare parts distrbution for handpumps
and other water and sanitation technologies, including their procurement, storage,
distribution ftrough the private sector, logistics of retailing, pricing, etc., by January
31, 1995.
3.10        The Department of Urban and Institutional Water DeveJopment in DWD
would be responsible for the implementation of this component with the asistance of
consultants; the district administons of the districts in which the towns are located,
and MOLG. Asurances were obtained from the Govenment during negotiatons that
(i) DWD would carry out public hygiene education in consultaton with MOH and the
district admitraons, and onduct two workshops to review progress, not later than
November 30, 1995, and November 30, 1998, resectively; (ii) DWD shal prepar
and furnish IDA a plan for the implementation of the first workshop not later than
August 31, 1995; and (iii) MOH would asist DWD, through their personnel stationed
in the districts, in sanitation and hygiene education activities.



- 24 -
Pan B:      Jh#a - Njeru   (US$ 24.8 mion)
Responsible Agency:  NWSC                        See Anne 8
Description
3.11        The existing water supply facilities in Jinja would be rehabilitaed,
involving mainly the replacement of pipes, fittings, valves, hydrants, and related
equipment. This would include leak detection and repair as well as water meter
replacement and installation, and emphasis on providing commercially viable
communal standposts. The existing water treatment works would be rehabilitated and
the raw water intake structure modified. The water distribution network would be
expanded to serve parts of Jinja, parts of Njeru, and other select areas outside Jinja
Municipality. Consumer registration would be carried out for standposts, and
household connections and billing would be improved.
3.12        The existing sewers in Jinja woud be rehabilitated and expanded. The
sewage treatment ponds in Jinja would be rehabilitated and modified as needed and new
sewers and sewage treatment ponds constructed in Njeru. Other sanitation
improvements would typically consist of the upgading or constucon of pit latrines of
different designs, rehabilitation or construction of septic tnks, and constuction of
public latrines. For a detailed description and cost estimates for Part B see Annex 8.
3.13        The drawings for water supply and sewerage expansion in JImja, which
were prepared several years ago, would be revised as needed. Studies to improve the
water supply and sanitation services in other towns under NWSC would be caried out,
particularly for expansions in Kampala and Gulu. Plans for a limnological study
related to the future raw water intake from Take Victoria were prepared during a
mission in August 1993 and would be carried out as part of the Project to proide vital
information for the preparation of future expansion plans for water supply and
sanitation in Jinja-Njeru. The Project also includes the provision of hygiene education;
training; technical assistance; computerizatiotn of billing; a tariff study; and acquisition
of vehicles, equipment, spare parts, and chemicals.
ImPletation
3.14        The overall responsibility for implementng this component would be
with NWSC under a relending subsidiary loan agreement with the Government (Para.
3.22). For designs, supervision, studies and preparation of plans for future exanion,
NWSC would be assisted by consultants. MNR would submit a draft Lotter of
Invitation (including Terms of Reference, Short List of Firms, Supplementary
Information for Firms, and draft Contract) for the selection of a firm for design and
supervision of J-mja-Njeru to IDA for review within one month of project effectiveness.
Assurances were obtained dunng negotations that NWSC woud carry out upgraing or
construction of pit latri:.- 5, septic tans, and public latrines and undertake hygien
education activities in collaboration with MOH and MOLG and under the overall



- 25 -
responsibility of (1) Jinja Municipal Council, for acdvities in Jinja, and (ii) Njeru Town
Council in collaboration with DWD, for activities in Meru. Assurances were also
obtained dunng negotiations that NWSC would complete a Water Demand Study i
Jinja-Njeru and a Limnological Study in Jinja, Njeru, Kampala, and Entebbe, both by
September 30, 1995.
Pai C:      Institional Strengthenng  (US$ 2.3 mlon)
Responsible Agency:  DWD                        See Anne 9
Decption
3.15        The financial and manaement capacity of the main instutions involved
would be strengthened to facilitate the implementation and operadon of the water
supply and sanitation improvements in the small towns. These institutions are ri) the
user organizations to be formed, (ii) the district and urban goveirments, and (iii)
DWD. The main factors which call for insttutional sgthenig are (i) the changing
role of DWD as a planner and regulator of the sector rather than an implementor and to
provide the needed backup to the community orgarizations at would be rsonsible
for the operation and maintenance of the schemes, and (ii) the involvement of the
communities in all stages of the Project, starting with planning. This component
includes the provision of taining, technical assitance, sudies, workshops, peparation
of training materials, vehicles, office furniure and equipment, training equipment, and
rehabilitation of office buildings. For a detailed description and cost estimates for Part
C see Annex 9.
Imxplemnation
3.16        The Human Resource Development (HRD) Unit in DWD would be
responsible for implementing this component with the assstance of a management and
organization specialist and consultants. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiatons that DWD would complete (i) a Dlettia Organiadon Assesment
and Planning Study for one district by March 31, 1995 and (ii) a participatory
Organizaton Assessment and Strategic Planing Study of DWD by September 30,
1995.
Cofr EsnMAS
3.17        The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$48.0 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$34.4 million or 72 percent of the total. The
total project cost includes physical and price contingencies and taxes and duties. Taxes
on local construction contrts and on goods not directly imported for the Project are
estimated at US$0.8 million. Without taxes and duties, the totl project cost would be
US$47.2 million. A breakdown by component is shown in Table 3.1, with detailed
cost esaimates contained in Annes7to 9.



- 26 -
TABLE 3.1
NoBjzcr Cosr FSiAiU sy CompoNN4
Us                             C_mt
Fordg             L'oca           Tota     % o Tota
A. SMALL TOWNS (DWD)
Civil Wors                             6.88            2.13             9.01
Equipmnt and Materials                 1.46            0.04             1.50
Consulting Services, Tecbnical
Assistac, Tning, etc.                  2.68             1.60            4.28
OpeatingCosts 1                        Qs                m              g
SUB-TOTAL                             1.09             4.45            i5.4            39
B. JINJA - NJERU "IC
civil Work                             9.98            3.86            13.84
EqWpment and Mdorils                   1.39            0.00             1.39
Conling Services, Technical
Assisaco, Trainig, ec.                 4.05             1.48            5.53
Oprating costs                          _ 0            Q2                Q
suB-TOTAL                             IS.42            54              20.96           52
C. INSTfTUTIONAL STRENGTHEIG  (DWD)
civil Work                             0.14            0.55             0.69
Equipment and Mterials                 0.40            0.05             0.45
Consulting Service, Technical
Assitac, Tining, etc.                                   Q               Q84
SUB-TOTAL                              0.90            LOB             1.98             5
REIMBURSEMENT OF PPF                    1.20             030             1.50            4
TOTAL BASE COST                        28.61            11.37           39.98          100
CONTIsNCInS
PHUYICAL                               2.41            0.79            3.20
PIUCE                                  3               L.39 
TOTAL CONTDGBCIS                        54               2.18            8.02
TOTAL FROJECr COST                     34.45            13.55           48.00
TAxIs AND Dtmss                                          0.84            0.84
TOTAL COST NEr OF
TAXES AND DUTIES                       345              12.71           47.16
Op.U od Wba Inl ds   h fw oe appfih ad epiawa, oalam e&i* u=sd fordo Pka ,0    t     and
MMMON), am" oommu mvIo.aWO udlhls amd pwmmbus and aidd ailwoase hrPwr4set af



- 27 -
3.18        In-kind comrions by picipag communities, consistng of a small
cash payment, unskilled labor, and local constuion mateal (such as sand, bncks,
gravel, and wood) for the rehabilitation or consuction of water supplies or sanitation
facilities are estinated at US$30,00U. These are not included in the cost esdmates
contained in Table 3.1 nd present less than6percent of total project cost.
3.19        The cost esmates for major civil works, equipment and maedals are
based on contacts awaded recently for siilar items. Minor civil works would be
constructed through labor-intensive methods, some of which would be done with
unsldled labor and locallly available construction materials provided on an "in-kind"
basis.
3.20        Contingencies -   For physical contingencies, an average of 8.0
pent has been added to the base cost. For price contingencies, an average of 11.2
percent has been added to the base cost plus physical contingencies. Physical and price
contingencies per component are shown m Annees 7 to 9. To detemne the price
contingencis for costs estimated in US Dollars, an excWted aveage annual price
increase of 2.8 percent for the duration of the Project has been used. This tate has also
been used for local costs on the assumption that the differece between domestic and
inteational price inflation would be offset by equivalent adjusments in the foreign
exchange rate.
FIACING
3.21        The total project cost of US$48.0 million equivalent would be financed
as shown in Table 3.2.
TAmt 3.2
PROJECtrFIANCING
US$ Million               Percent
Forein       L<cl      Total     of Total
IDA                             34.40       7.90      42.30        88.1
Govement of Uganda                          2.50       2.50         5.2
NWSCe                                       3.20       3.20         6.7
Total 0                         34.40       13.60     48.00       100.0
°w Jac zlude tes ad duW eUt at USO.4 mUion equlva in  cumIO y



- 28 -
3.22       The IDA Credit of US$42.3 million equivalnt would finance 88.1
percent of total project cost. GOU would contribute the equivalent of US$2.50 million
(5.2 percent), including about US$0.37 million equivalent in taxes and duties. NVWSC
would contribute the enfie countrpat contribution for Part B: Imja-Njeru, amounting
to the equivalent of US$3.20 million (6.7 percent), including about US$0.47 million
equivalent in taxes and duties. Out of a total of approximately US$22.0 million
ewuivalent from theproceeds of the credit to be passed on by the Government to
NWSC, 50 percent or approximately US$11.0 million would be a grant in the form of
equity, and 50 percent relent at the prvailing minimum rate charged by commercial
banks in Uganda for commercial loans to companies, plus 3 percent, repayable over 25
years including 5 years of grace. ITe foreign exchange risk of the IDA Credit would
be borne by GOU. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Goveanment and NWSC, under ter  and conditions acceptable to IDA, would be a
condidon of disbursemem for Part B of the Project.
3.23       To assist with project preparation, a Project Preparation Facility (Nos.
660-UG, 660-1-UG, and 660-2-UG) in the amount of US$1.50 million was provided
and has been utilized for. (a) one technical assistance staff position in DWD; (b)
consultants to undertale the prefeasibility study; and (c) vehicles, office equipment and
administrative expenses to DWD for project prepaation. In addition, about US$0.83
million equivalent was provided under a Japanese PHRD Grant for a feasibility study
for the Project. A portion (US$0.85 million) of the credit from the First Urban Project
(Credit No. 2206-UG) is being utlized for further project preartion between
apraisal and credit effectiveness.
PROCUREMT
3.24       The procurement arrangements for the items to be financed by IDA are
sunmmized in Table 3.3. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be utilized
for 45 percent of all procurement (42 percent of the IDA financed portion). The detais
of procent are shown in Annex 10a For goods, pre-shipment inspection may be
caid out for quantity and quality at the point of origin by a pre-shipment inspecin
agent appointed by the Govrment, but for price inspection by a third party inspection
firm. Prudent intial or loca shopping involve seidng at least three quotations.
Tendering on the district level for works (Pan. 3.26) or goods (Par. 3.28) would be
carred out through competitive bidding with adequate  anspacy of the selection
process acceptable to IDA, includig public posting or advertsing of the invitations to
bid, public availability of standard forms of contract, public bid opening, evaluations
subject to verification by a pocrement committee with at least one member from
outside DWD, and public announcement of bid award.
3.25        67W1 Worf;s -  The constcion of major water supply and sewerage
schemes and the riliton of exisng facilities would be tendered through ICB.
The drilng of about 350 boreholes with a total value not to exceed US$3.1 million



- 29 -
TABLE 3.3
AMouNS Am Mz=ODS OF PaOr
On USS milln ants finoed by IDA ame s m In 1hc ude to toal prd col)
Ptoaeet M5ethod
Descripieo                   ICB        LCB       Shop.   Othe 2        Total
ping'I
Civil Works                 18.95       5.66                  4.78      29.39
15.19      4.32                  4.38      23.89
Equipment, Spare Parts,      2.64       0.11       0.20       1.20       4.15
Vehicles, Materias, etc.     2.64       0.1        0.20       1.20       4.15
Consulting Services, 3                                       11.89      11.89
Teical Assise,                                               11.89      11.89
and Training
Operaig Cost                                                  1.07       1.07
0.87       0.87
efunding of PPM                                               1.50       1.50
1.50      1.50
Total                       21.59       5.77       0.20      20.44      48.00
IDA                         17.83       4.43       0.20      19.84      42.30
would be carxied out as follows. As there is presently no established drilling industry
in Uganda, the price of the lowest evaluated rsponsve bidder for the first drilling
contc tndered t trgh ICB would be compared with the cost for drilling that is
curtly being caried out by DWD through force account under the Northen
Reconstrcon Project (Credit 2362-UG). If this bid price is found to be more than 20
percent higher than the above-mentioned force account drilling cost of DWD, further
drilling work could be cared out by DWD through force account, with the pror
consent of IDA. Payments for such force account work would be done using fixed
rtes for completed borehol, the mplem i  of wich would be monitored by the
temonal ot lca shog *noling at WeAst 3 quoo
2    Wconsoats of fre cous, dtltbaned compeive bidug, UNICBF ftr hu and  MS on goods nd
cii
9   A brkdown of conltIni meo and tiechicls   by gm ty ad prpo of h asinme Is &MA in Ae.
II.
4   Si mms ovbhead expensea ad ot included in the fm acc cose t of wor perfod by the Govemat, a
nducton of th bid p&e would be mad for tde pUpos. of cpahdo of dun cods.



- 30 -
district adminstraon concerned, with the average cost of a completed and perforning
well and an installed handpump not to exceed US$10,000.
3.26       Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) would be utlized for civil works in
small towns of dispersed locations for contracu of US$200,000 or ess up to an
aggregate of US$5.50 million. The consuction of civil works for spring protection,
hand dug wells, insallaton and the surround for handpumps, latrines, septic tanks, and
other minor civil works, for individual contac of US$20,000 or less with an
agegate amount not to exceed US$ 0.60 million, would be procured through
tendering on the district level (see Pama. 3.24).
3.27       Equipment and MateriaLs -  Pipes, fitings, and other equipment for
water supply and sanitation installaons would be procured through ICB. Furniture,
supplies, chemicals, teaching materials, equipment, spare parts, and other minor
equipment for individual contracts not to exceed $100,000 and in aggregate not to
exceed US$0.40 million would be pocured thrugh LCB. Office fiuniture and
supplies, chemicals, teaching mateis, minor equipment and spare parts for individual
contacu not to exceed $20,000 and in aggregate not to exceed US$0.20 million may
be procured through prudent shopping (see Para. 3.24).
3.28       An estmated 350 handpumps of a standard design suitable for
community nmntenance would be procured from UNICEF, not to exceed a total of
US$0.35 million. Desktop computers, software and peripheral equipment, and
urgently required vehicles, the toal not to exceed US$0.65 million, may be purchased
tirough the Inter-Agency Procurement Senrice Office (IAPSO) of UNDP in
Copenhagen, Denmark, with the prior apval of IDA. Latine slabs of approved
designs (both SanPlats and VIP slabs, see Annex 6), about 90 peret of which would
be sold by DWD to heads of households at a subsidized price, or individual contiaus of
US$20,000 or less and an aggregate amount not to exoeed US$0.10 nillion, would be
tendered through LCB (Pan. 3.24).
3.29       Revew by IDA -  IDA financed contracts and procurement of goods
and works of US$200,000 and aboen would be subject to prior rview by IDA. IDA-
financed contacts with consulting firms above a teshold of $100,000 would be
subject to prior review by IDA provided the firm is selected through competio. All
tms of reference are WbJect to prior rview by IDA. Selective post review of
awarded contacts below the threshold levels would be caried out during supeision
missions. LCD would involve adverting and public bid opening, and would specify
clearly stated evaluation criteia for awarding the contract to the lowest evaluated
bidder. Foreign firms would not be precluded from participation. The first LCB
tender documentation prepared for the Protject woud be reviewed by IDA. It is
estimated that 60 pement of prcurement financed by IDA would be subject to prior
review.



- 31 -
3.30        Domestic Preference -  Eigible domestic contacrs bidding for civil
works contcs under ICB would receive a margin or prefrence of 7½h percent when
comparing bids with those from foreign contactors. A margin of preferenc of
15 percent would be given under ICB for goods manufactutred in Uganda when
comparing domestic with foreign bids.
3.31        Consuling SerWces and 7aining -  For studies, constuction
supervision, technical assistance, and training, consultants - including NOOs - would
be hired on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelinesfor the Use of Consuts. For overseas taining financed under the
Project, the qualifications of candidates along with their course of study, proposed
training institutions and costs, would be reviewed by IDA. Local training courses and
workshops proposed along with their estimated costs are also subject to prior review by
IDA (for details on training see Annex 9). The provisions of the Guddeinesfor the Use
of Consuts requirng prior IDA rvew or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation rports, and con ts sbhal not
apply to contracts simated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. This excpi
to prior IlDA review shall, however, not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of indivduals; to single source selection of fims; to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably detrmined by IDA; and to amendments
of contrc raising the contt value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
3.32        IDA would finance part of an estimated Operang Cosus of US$1.07
million on the basis of reinbursement for actual expses incurred. Operating costs are
defined to consist of vehicle opeating costs (fuel, maintenance, and isramce),
perfomance and field allowances for project staff, utilities, and office supplies and
minor office equpment All expenditures for such opeafang costs would be based on
approved lists of planned ependiture agreed upon with IDA.
3.33        The pr         practices of the two agencies that have the main
responsibility for implementation, that is DWD and NWSC, were revewed by IDA.
They have preous experience in implenmting donor-financed projec, including
IDA, and have adequate in-house capacity to manage the procurement according to
IDA guidelines with the asitance of individual consultank. The prarafion of
procumet documents, the evaluation of bids and conultants' proposals, and the
soliciting of the views of external assistance agencies on these decisions is the
responsibility of the line ministy involved, which would keep the Central Tender
Board (CTB) inforned of the actions take at various steps in the p e     process.
CTB is to receive bids and consultants' proposals and reviews the award of contrc
before appoval. Tender documents would be ppared in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement, including (i) letter of invitation and contract for the hiring
of consulting firms; (ii) short forms of contract for technical assis     spealsts; (ii)
consultants contrac intended fo local firms; (iv) adverisment and bidding
documents for minor civil works (for less than about US$10 million) for which
prequalification would not be required; and (v) advertisement and bidding documents



- 32 -
for goods. Assurances were obtained from Govemnment during negotiations that (i) the
Government and NWSC would use the relevant sandard bidding documents issued by
the Bank for all civil wors, goods, and consulting services, and (-d) that GOU would
form a procurement committee to steer and facilitae all procurement on the Project,
consisting of representatives from DWD, NWSC, Central Tender Board, and othei
organizations as needed, within one month after project effectiveness.
3.34        Procurement information would be colected and recorded as follows:
a.  Prompt reporting of contact award information for the rectdve
components by DWD and NWSC; and
b.  As part of their semi-annual progress reports (see Pa. 4.29) DWD
and NWSC would submit to IDA up to date information on: (i)
revised cost estimates for individual contra  and the total Project,
including best esmates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; and Oii) a reVised schedule of procurement acdons,
including advertising, bidding, contract award, and compledon time
for individual contracts.
3.35        The fully implemented IDA credit would be disbursed as shown in
Table 3.4. The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001. The closing
date would be December 31, 2001. A detailed disrsement schedule and anticipated
disbursement profile are given in Annesr 12.
3.36        Disbursements would be made against stdard IDA documenion with
the following exceptions, for which certified s n of aependiWs (SOEs) would
be used: (i) contra  costng le than US$50,00 equivalent, (ii) in-country seminars
(training courses), (iii) pmance and field allowances, and (iv) force account work.
SOEs would be certi  by the designated project mnager in the project management
structr (Department of Urban and Institutional Water Development) of DWD for Part
A: Small Towns; and Part C: Capacity Buildng, and the designated project manager in
the PIU of NWSC for Part B: Jinja-Njeru. These would be subject to review by
superion missions and annual audits (Pa. 3.38).
&SECAL ACCOUN
3.37        Assurances were obtained during negotato  that in order to faitate
the availability of funds for the Project when needed, two Special Acoounts would be
establshed in a commercial bank and operted and maintained on terms and conditions
sadsfactory to IDA. One account would be opened by DWD for the Government



- 33 -
TAMZ 3e4
CATEGORY                         ALLOCATION    PEM CENT  OF  ENDITURES
an  milon)    TO BE FINNCED
PARTS A AmD c: SMALL TOWNS AND
INSTITUTIONAL SRENGTNIG
(1)   Civil Works                             8.85     100% of foreign expenditure and
25% of local expendiure
(2)   Equipment and Materis                  2.18      100% of expditure
(3)    Consulting Services, Technical
Assistance, and Training               5.12      100% of expenditure
(4)    Operatiag Costs                       0.61      100% of foreign expenditure and
80% of local expenditre
SuB-ToTAL PARis A AD C                16.76
PART B: JINA - NJERU
(5)   Civil Works                            12.04     100% of foreign expenditure and
25% of local expenditure
(6)    Equipment and Maials                   1.53     100% of expendiure
(7)   Consulting Sevices, Technical
Assistance, and Training               5.53      100% of expenditure
(8)    Operating costs                       .16       100% of foreign expenditure and
80% of local expenditure
SUB-TOTAL PART B                      19.26
(9)   Refinding of PPF
a. for Paru A and C                    1.20     Amount Due
b. for Part B                          0.30      Amount Due
(10)   Unallocated
a. for Parts A and C                   2.24
b. for Part B                          2.54
TOTAL                                 42.30



- 34 -
(called Spedal Account A) and the other by NWSC (called Special Account B) for Part
B: Jinja-Njeru. The initial deposit of US$1.5 million into Special Account A and US$
1 million into Special Account B would be replenied on the basis of satisfacory
documentary evidence, to be provided to IDA, of eligible payments made from ithe
account for goods and seavices required for the Project. No limit would be set on the
size of payments which may be made from the Special Accounts other than that
imposed by the balance remaining in each of the two Accounts at any time. All
payments of US$250,000 or less would be channeled through the Accounts. The
minimum size for issuance of Specal Commitments would normally be US$250,000
equivalent.
AUDrnNG
3.38        The Ministry of Naual Resourc4s and NWSC, would maintain accounts
and records for project activities, including SOE's (Pam. 3.36) and the Special
Accounts (Pam. 3.37) in accordance with sound accounting practices. Assuances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would have the records and accounts
of the Project, including those for the Special Accounts and SOEs, audited for each
fical year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that it would submit the
audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year, with a separate
opinion by the auditors on SOEs. Similarly, assurances were obtained during
negoiaons that NWSC would have its records and its Project and crporate accounts,
icluding those for Special Account B and SOEs, audited for each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submit the audit reports to IlDA within nine
months of the end of every fiscal year, with a separate opinion by the auditors on
SOEs. As a condidon of disbursem for Part B of the Project, NWSC would provide
IDA with any overdue audit accounts.



-35 -
IVt. AGANENS lFORt IAET]ATONV AND
OPRTIONi-ANdD-BNATMANC:E
ORGANONIrON    P           AON
Dircorate of Water Developmet
4.01        The upgradig of the Water Development Department to a Dirtoate of
Water Devalopment (DWD) entaild a new deinition of its role: it would no longer be
esponible for opeatis and maintenance of water sply and sntation, but would
concentte more on increaing coverage with greatly increased participation of the
users and the distict adminions. At tde tme of its fomation in the early 1950s,
DWD was made responsible for hydrology, meteorology, irrgaion and drainage,
piped water supply, and dams and valley tnls. In the 1970s this was expanded to
urban water supply and draiag, borehole drilling and mintence, and  nrng
prtection. Because of the overall political and eonomic situion in Uganda during
the 1970s and 80s, DWD cold not fulfill its mandate: covemage with potable water
supply remained below 20 percent as compared with a target of 50 percent set for the
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, and most of the  sting water and sanitation
schemes fell into disrpar. At the start of the recvery period a new approach to
meeti  the demand in rual and urban areas was developed over a period of several
years in consultion with support agencies, with the following charcteistics:
a. Estblishment of a community-based maintenance system for mral water
supply,
b. Decentlization of the operton and maitenance of urban water supplies to
the districts and strengthening the capacity in the districts,
c. Redefining the role of DWD to be pdmarily concerned with planning,
coordination, monitoring, and evaluation and to strengthen DWD in this role,
and
d. Increased mobilization of intenal and exter  resources for urban and rural
water supply.
4.02        DWD would be responsible for the implementaion of Part A: Small
Towns, and Part C: Institional Strengthening, of the Project (see Chapter p). This
would be done in the newly established Department of Urban and Instiuttonal Water
Development (DUIWD), which would manage the entire Rumal Towns Water and
Sanitto Program (see Chapter U). Asances were obtained from Govemment
during negotiations tbat it would (a) establish and maintain, for the duration of the
Prcject, adequate staffing in DWD for project implementaion consting of at least a
project coordinator, procurement officer, socio-economistlmonitor, and accountant; and



-36-
(b) employ a tchnical advior for a minimum of two years from the date the credit
becomes effecdve.
4.03        At tie st  of the mobiization phase in each town, the relevant sector
related local extemion staff woud meet with distrct officials, rpres tatives from
DWD, the consultant, and other leaders. These extnsion staff would assist in the
identfication of Water User Groups (WUGs) that are willing to participate in the
proess, which in turn would fonn Water and Sanitation Committees (WSCs) to
manage water supply and sanitadon, and hygiene education for their sective WUG
(Town Implemetadon Process,, Annx 4). The consultaive process between the
extension staff and the WSCs at the start of project implementation in a specific town
would revolve around a choice of technology from a set of avalable options with their
assocated costs to the beneficiaries. The capital cost as well as the recurent cost
varies considerably with the technology, as shown in Annex S. Choice of technology,
and the disclosure of the capital cost contribution to be made by the beneficiaries and
the amounts of OMR costs that they would have to commit thiemselves to would be an
important part of the dialogue. For piped schemes, WSCs would %. associated into a
Water User Association (WUA; Para 2.07). The specific operational arrangements for
the WSCs and the WUAs would vary with the local situation and would be left to the
beneficiaries to decide during the mobilization phase. Once the Project has been
implemented, the district administation would have the main responsibility for
oversight and support for the WSCs and WUAs, and DWD would provide engineeing
advice and backup with maintenance in case of catastrophic failures (see Pam 4.17).
4.04        DWD would monitor the progrs   of implementation (Supervision Plan,
Annex 14) utilizing the Key Perfomnance Indicators (Annex 13) as the basis for the
assessment of progress and inidate adjustments to the implementation procedures as
needed, uilizing the experience gained from implementtion in tie first batch of towns
to improve the implementation in the rest of them. This follows one of the principles
contained in the Poicies and Guideines (Anx 3), of "starting small," whereby
implementaton would be done in stages starting wnth one town in a pilot phase prior to
project effectiveness' and then takdng up the renmining towns in stages, with an
increasing number of towns at each stage. The staff of DUlIWD would be given some
retraining as the natre of their work changes from a supply driven approach that is
mostly technical in nature to a demand driven approach involving the users and the
disict administaions. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiatins that before the implementation of any civil works contract for a specific
town other than rinja and Njeru, it would produce evidence for that town of: (i) the
exisnce of land rights for the sites required for the Project, and (ii) conclusion of a
written agreement between the Govemment and WSCs. This agreement would, inter
alla, specify the acoount or accounts to be opened for the deposit by the WSCs of the
agreed initial contribution to the constuction cost and the fiming of this deposit.
I  Asd fbrOe dr fad   PtU&Oet, MDA Crm 2W&UG.



- 37 -
Natioual Water and Sewerage Corporation
4.05        The Natidonal Water and Sewerage Coporation (NWSC), an autonomous
parastatal organition reporing to the Ministry of Naral Resources, was established
in 1972 to develop and opea  water swpply and seweage systems in urban areas of
Uganda on a slf-supporting basis. NWSC is headed by a Managing Director who is
guided by a Board of Directos. Originally NWSC had responsibility only for
Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja, to which Masaka, Mbale, Mbara, and Tororo were
added in 1989 and Gulu and Lia in 1992. The Prqject Implemention Unit (PM) of
NWSC which presently manages the Second Water Supply Prqject would have the
responsibility for the implementation of Part B: Jinja-Njeru of the Project, assisted by
consultants. NWSC is in the process of giving the PIU a permanent status in the
orgaization by transforming it into a departnent. Assunces were obtained during
negotiations that NWSC would establi, and maintain for the duration of the Project,
adequate staffing in NWSC for project implementation conssting of at least: (1) a
project manager, engineer, socio-economist (Para. 4.09), and accountant; and (ii) a
technical advisor employed for a minimum of two years from the date the credit
becomes effective (Para. 4.02).
4.06        NWSC 's financial situation has improved over the last few years, partly
through provisions of the Second Water Supply Project (Credit 2124-UG), but progress
in boosting producin, registering more consumers, reducing billing arrears, and
disconnection for non-payment have not resulted Li pronate improvements in the
corport cash flow. Revenues increased by about 12% between PY91 (USh 5.9
billion) and FY92 (USh 6.7 billon), mostly due to (i) GOU promptness in approving
tariff increases totaling 150% over the past three years, and (ii) a block mapping
activity which updated the consumer register and added a net total of over 15,000
previousy undocumented connections. However, the cash flow siuation has suffered
due to the fact that actual colections persstetly fell s    of revenue projections. Net
debts at vear-end PY92 stood at USh 3.8 billion (or 57% of revenues) compared to
USh '. billion (or 38% of revenues) in FY91 and to FY90 net debtors of USh 0.7
billio,. (28% of revenues).
4.07        Expenditure has been a function of realized revenues and not of planned
opeation and maintenance needs, which has led to a deerioion of the capital assets
of the corporation. Worldng ratios have been consistently at a level of about 60% over
the period. Operating ependi  for PY92 were constrained at USh 4.0 billion
instead of the planned and budgeted USh 4.6 billion (increasing by about 10% instead
of about 30% over PY91). At times there has been a shortage of funds to cover
expenditure for needed routine operation and maintenance, such as for fuel. NWSC
was able to provide the counterpart contributions to the Second Water Supply Project
when needed, but this was greatly, assted by the delays in project implementadon,
maing the actual reqirements for countpart funds le thm the estimate. Plans for
minor capital works to be financed by NWSC during the year had to be scaled down as
a result of the revenue shortfals.



-38 -
4.08        The loss  due to water leakage in the water supply nmains and the
distribution network are esimated at more than 50% even under the present system of
opeaton where the water pressure is being kept purposely low to prevent even greater
loses. The opaton of the wate treatment plant is impaired periodically by an excess
of algae in the raw water pumped from Lak Victoria, which cannot be removed
sufficiely in the settling tanks and consequendy clog the filters. The financial
situion in Jinja is fiuther exacebated by the fact that the steep increa  in water
tariffs since the start of the Second Water Supply Project three years ago and the recent
realizaton of the threat to discomect for non-payment has prompted many consumers
not to pay their arears and not to reconnect their household water supply, but rather
fetch water from elwhere, including from neighbors.
4.09        As part of the Project NWSC would step up the insallation of water
meters (to allow consumers to use water sparingly if they wanted to save money);
launch a public education campaign about the need for consumers to cover the cost of
water supply and sewerage; and to provide substantially more standposts in areas where
there is low demand for household connections. To assist with the standposts projam,
a demand study would be cared out in rmja-Njeru (see Para. 3.14) and a post created
by NWSC and filled by a socio-economist (see Para. 4.05) in chare of promoting a
standposts program. The socio-economist would perform the function of a commuity
sandpost officer and would head an outreach program, strting with JImja-Njeru, to
reach more low-income consumers by  gistering communal taps in the name of user
groups or individuals and to generally promote better relations between NWSC and its
customers. This program would later on be tended to other areas under NWSC.
4.10        Assurnces were obtained from the Government during negotiations that
it would take all necessary measure to (i) ensure that its ministies and parastatal
bodies pay NWSC for water and sewerage charges promptly after the billing date and
in any event to sete any aears by the end of each fiscal year, and (d) take aU
necessary actions to enable NWSC to make wate tariff increases on a quarterly or
more frequent basis, if required. It would be a conditon of effectiveness that the
Government has settled all overdue debts to NWSC whereby an account would be
considered overdue after 60 days form the date of ising the bill. Assurances were
obtained during negotations that NWSC would (i) carry out a valuation of the fixed
assets of the water supply and sewerage facilites in Jlnja and Njeru by June 30, 1997;
in accordance with sound methods of valuation acceptable to IDA; (ii) improve its
billing and oollection efficienq to at least the following percentages by the end of each
of its fiscal years: PY 1995 - 66 %, FY 1996 - 77 %, FY 1997 and thereafter - 82 %;
(ii) maintain efficient billing opetions so that arrears on total billing are no more than
three months; (iv) condaue to actively disconnect the water supply to consumers who
are delinquent in theirpayments; (v) adjust the levels or structure of its tariffs - on a
quarterly or more frequent basis, if required - and take any other actions necessary to
ensure that funds would be genAtd from internal sources equivalent to at least 20
percent of its capital  enditure; (vi) on the basis of its forecast review whether it



-39 -
would meet this requirement by July 31 of each year, sting July 31, 1994 and shall
fmih to IDA a copy of tisreview;  and (vii) be flyresponsiblefor OMR of its
water supply and sewerage installaons through revenue collected from tariffs.
Mum"yof Heat
4.11        MOH would participate in the Project si  it has overall reponsibility
for environmental saniton and health. MOH has an effective network of health
personnel down to th prsh level (RC-3). At the centml government level there
would be consultaions between the MNR and MOH through DWD on the Project,
focing primarily on improvements in latine coverage and hygiene education.
Opeatonally, most health pesmnd involved with the Project would be at the district
and town leveL During the pilot town impemenion activities (see Pams. 4.20-4.22)
the roles of the various organizations involved would be more precisely defined.
Dict land Town Governments
4.12        On October 2, 1992, a policy of decentrlizaton of administrative and
fancial functions to the disricts was approved, one of the provisons of which is that
the 39 district dmin ons in Uganda would uldmately be empowered to plan,
desig, and manage the provision and maintnance of socdal and economic services. In
light of this the districts would be heavily involved in project lemenion. Some of
the lger urban areas have the same amini vesu as the ditict
admiistratins,that is that of an RC-5, and as such would already be equipped at this
time to manage the Small Towns Water and Sanitaion Prqject at that levl with some
outside assistnce.
ORGAZA1ON FOR OPA!1ON AND MANtlENANCE
4.13        In fte past both DWD and NWSC were resonsible for the operation,
maintenance and replacement (ONR) of all water supplies which they constucted. As
a self-accounting parastatal organization, NWSC has been able to cover its operation
and maintenance costs from the reveues it collected fom the regiftered consumers.
For this purpose it maintains a revenue collection department in each of its towns and
has ta    a number of measures in t  last few years t increase its rvenue (Pan.
4.06). Tbis income has allowed NWSC to opeate And maintn its syte    adequately,
although hre have ben insnces where cash flow problems have delayed some
exediur  for OMR, such as for fuel (Paa. 4.07). Fmancia targets to improve
NWSC's performance were agreed upon for the Secnd Water Supply Proect (Credit
2124-UG), the relevant provisions of which have been carried over to this Project
(Para 4.10).
4.14        The situadon has been different for DWD which, because of the overall
siaion in the country at that ime, has been unable in the recent past to adequately



-40-
fblfill its mandate to oprate and maintain the wban schemes. Its responsibilites have
tfierefore been redefined recently to let it divest the primary responsibilit) for
opeaions and maitenance for all water supplies to local organizations and to continue
providing only planning, coordination, and backstopping (Paras. 1.13, 4.01, and 4.16).
OMR of the water supply and sanitation installations to be constructed under the
Project would therefore be the reWnsibility of the WSCs and WUAs, as described
below.
4.15        Assurances were obtained dunng negotations that the Water User
Groups (WUG) and Water User Associatoiw (WUAs) would have the main
responsibility for OMR of the water and sanitation facilites provided under the Project
(Para. 4.03 and Annex 4 -Town imlementation Process). WUGs would be represented
by elected Water and Sanitados Commtees (WSCs) which would be responsible for
ensuring the overall sutainabnity of the water supply and sanitation instalatons and
promoting better public hygiene, for which they would operate and maintain the
systems, collect water charges, select and remunerate staff, and safely keep funds
mainly through the establishment and management of a bank account. In cases where
several water points are part of alarger istion - in mostly a piped system - the
WSC would be associated with a WUA, which would have overall responsibility for
setting water rtes, revenue collec, ion (directly or through the WSCs; Para. 2.07d), and
any expansion that may be agreer upon.
4.16        The role of the Airedorate of Water Development (L)WD) in operation
and maintenance would henceforth be to provide management and engineering advice
to the loc organionresponsible for the operation and maintenance (such as the
WSCs and WUAs mn small towns) and backup with maintenance in case of catastrophic
failures, such as when well rehailitation is required. The revenue collected by the
local organiztions should be sufficient to cover replacement of parts with an expected
life of up to about eight years in addition to operaton and routine maintenance, but it
has to be ewpect that in the inital stages of implementing the new maintenance policy
some would not be able or willing to do so, and funds from the Government's recurrent
budget would be needed to assist the local organiions with such large and infrequent
repairs. One angement that should be tested for such cases is a cost sharing of the
use organiza, DWD and the district adminison, whereby each would
contribute funds in an agreed proportion. Fuure expansion or upgrading of the system
should in principle be financed entirely by the user organizations, but Govemment
subsidies may be applied here too. Provisions of this kind would have to be agreed on
in the course of project implementation as experience is gained with the results of the
earlier stages of community mobilization and with the specific operational arrangements
that emerge and experience with the acual operation and maintenance of the schemes.
4.17        DWD would be the primary source of technical support to WUGs and
WUAs for OMR although over ime it is anticipated that private companies and
individual artisans would compete with DWD in the provision of backup services.
Since DWD is the Government agency responsible for the Small Towns and the



-41 -
Institutional Strengtheng components of the Project, it would remain accomtable for
OUR of te water and saniion facilies in cases where WUGs or WUAs should
cease to function satisfctorily, at least until the water supply fnictions have been
effectvely passed on to the ditict level udae t  decentalization policy (Par 4.12).
At the same time DWD would rmain esponsible for monitoring the p fonnance of
the WUGs and WUAs and aing the quality of construction, at least until the
effective devolution of water supply scto responsibilities to tie districts actuly takes
plae.
4.18        The No#AgJoJ Wabr and Sewerage Co,poenaon (NWSC) finances the
OMR of water supply and sanitation m rinja-Njeru through the revenues collected.
NWSC could be a source of spare parts ft piped systems for WUAs at commerciay
established rates and a potential source of egineedng and management assistance to
WUAs with larger piped schemes.
4.19        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that loca aauhortes, both
district administations and urban authorities, would: (i) asst in the establishment of
WUGs and WUAs; (ii) carry out regular hygiene education activities (mi  6) in
consltaton with MOLG; and (m) constbtue the appropiate authority for appeals by
WUGs and WUAs in case disputes arise. The appropriate level of the resistance
council would oversee the ovallpefmanceof the WSCs and WUAs as part oftheir
genera role. Direct election of WSCs by the water users would assure that the
management of the water supplies and sanitation facilites is tranarent and continues
to bave the support of the user.
DPllMeUWATXON
4.20        Implemention of the project approach in Lugzi (and possibly
Wobulenzi) would begin oan a pilot basis around March 1994, winth part of the proceeds
of the Credit for the First Urban Project (Credit. 2206-UG), thus acquiring exriece
to refine the Policdes and Gudele as needed and to collect more information for the
prearation of the  plemem    Manual. The primary activities to be conducted
during the pilot phase, for which consltnts would be eogaged, are for DWD to
establish funional mechanisms (dialogue process, contra preparation, establishment
of bank accounts, etc.) to o liz the demand-driven approach for community
managed urban systems. A smal amount of construction would also occur during this
period, but the main constucon in Lugazi and Wobulnzi would take place only after
project effectiveness, after which DWD would begn full scale implementation in the
next batch of town.
4.21        In five towns exctenivly sveyed during the preparation stage for the
Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Progam n early 1992, a high demand for improved
water supply and sanitadon services was found to exist by means of an abbreviated
willingness-to-pay suvey. This demonsatd the respondents' desire to attain higher



-42 -
levels of service than they have at present. It was also documented at that dme by the
consultants that in 39 of the 60 Wn a high depe of private water vending exsts,
again indicating a high willingness to pay for a better service. As many of the water
supply systms are not funtoning at all or at a very smal capacity, the opportunity
exsts for water vendors to parally fill the void, at a considerable cost to te
households or businesses served.
4.22        Project implemen     according to the procedure oudined in the Town
Impkmmaton Pvcess (Annex 4), commecing with the pilot in LAgazi and
Wobulenzi, would start with a dialogue with pottal beneficiaries to more accurately
assess the demand for water supply and sanition services. Potential beneficaes
would be presnted with opttonal levels of sce which would be rated to: the size
of an initial commitment fee; a further contribution to capital cost as tie Project is
implementedt; and a commitment to manage and finance OMR costs. During the pilot
phase the procedures desribd in the Town hIm nenmaon Process would  her
reined and inc od into the draft Implmeaon Manua.
IEGAL Aspzis
4.23       nTe water sector legisatin has recea  ly been redafted under the Second
Water Supply Project (Credit 2124-UG) and is currently awaiting enctment.
Assurances were obtained during negotiadons from the Govenment that draft
gislation and regulatons exist that provide a fiamework for the funcdoning of the
Water and Sanitation Commitees (WSCs) and Water User Assoa  (WUAs).
Since negoiations the Government has submited to IDA (i) a Letter of Sector Policy
(nnex 2), (ii) a resettlement plan, with adequate comp, for the rdocaton of
all fimilies lving on the sites slected for the Project; and (iii) evidence that ESgypt,
Kenya, Sudan, and Tanznia have been notfied of the additional water withdrawals
from Jhe Nile bain which would result from the Project Assurances were obtained
from the Govnment and NWSC during negotiations that they would pronmpty
implement the above-meoned resettement plan. It would be a condidon of ced
efecdven  for the Government to submit evidence that it has established a legal and
reglatory framework for the functioning of the WSCs and WUAs. It would be a
conditon of disbwsemen for Part B: Jnja-Njeru, for NWSC to submit to IDA
evidence of land rights for the sites required for the Project in Jinja and Njeru.
TAm ATVND  wa           COUmoN
4.24        The tariffs set by NWSC have risen at a much higherte fom 1988 as
compared to those charged by DWD. NWSC, opertg as a prstat in nine urban
aa,  has to keep its taiff current to maintain finanidal viabilt as a reoeives no
subsids from the Government apart from the Govanment's equity contribution on
some of the external1y-assised projects. Tarffs carged by DWD have serously



- 43 -
lagged beiud infaion for many years now,, and its arrears are high. NWSC on the
other hand has lowe arrars as a result of stricter bill collection policies and
disconnection acdons (see Paras. 4.06 to 4.10).
4.25        The Pofices and Gudeines (Annex 3) contain a significant change in the
way tarffs would be levied and revenues colected and utilized. Under the Rural
Towns Water and Sanitation Progam of DWD, the Government would provide nearly
al of the capital cost of basic levels of service, while theincrment cost of igher
service levels would be paid by the users, and the opeation and maintenane costs of
the systems would be entirely the responsibility of the users. Tariffs would be set by
the WSCs and WUAs, which would also be responsible for the collection of tariffs and
accouning for the revenues and expenditures.
4.26        In the 11 small towns in the Project under DWD, WSCs would, together
with the communities, determine the tariffs to be collected to sustain the investnent as
wel as the system of collection, accounting, and documentation. DWD would provide
guideine for recommended methods of revenue collection, the maintenance of bank
accounts, and accounting, but the communities would be free to detmine their own
methods, as long as these are judged to consfitute prudent prctice. Periodic auditing
of the funds collectd and epended for the water supply and saitation system would
be the responsibility of the distnict or urban authority administration and of DWD.
<ftoJECIr MoMmRUG AmD RpoRTIING
4.27        The S&Verivon Plan for the Project is shown in Annex 14, and the key
peformance indicators which would be used in the monitoring by DWD are given in
Annex 13. Effectve monitoring and feedback are essential in the iterative and
interactive desig process. The prepartion of a draft implementadon Manual for the
Project would be a condkdon of credI effecliveness. The contents would include
diled spcifications of the role of DWD, the WUGs, WSCs, and WUAs, and the
ditrict adm        in project implemenion and operation and mainternce; a
statementof rsioifities and procedures for the WUGs, WSCs, and WUAs;
stndard forms of agreement between DWD and WSCs and WUAs; guidelines for the
oping and maintemnce of accounts; guidelines for the setting of tariffs; specifications
of monitoring procedures and monitoring indicators; a detailed implementation plan for
sanitation iprovements and hygiene education; etc. The Implementation Manual
would be finalized during the ProjeaLowch Workshop (Para. 4.28). During the pilot
implementationthat prcedes the st  of the Project, the procedures and indicators
would be revised and expanded (Pra. 4.22), and this process would continue for the
durtion of the ProjecL
4.28        Reporting would be provided by the consultants to DWD at a minimum
of every thre months and thme teports would be kept readily avaiable in the offices of
DWD for monitong purposes and to assist Bank supervision teams. Reporting would



-44 -
be concise and action-oriented such that the Project could be redirected if required as
implemetation proceeds. As the Project depends upon new approaches to the sector it
is anticipated that 18 staff-weeks per year of Bank supersion would be required
during the first three years and 12 staff weeks per year thereafter, as per the
Supervision Plan (Anna 14). Assces were obtained from fte Government duing
negotiations that a Projec Launch Workshop would be organized by DWID in
cooperation with NWSC within three months of project effectiveness to faniliarize all
concemed with the provisions under the Project and with the procedures for its
implementation, including procurement, disbursement, auditing, and reporting.
4.29        Assurances were also obtained from the Government during negotiations
that semi-annual progress reports on the Project would be prepared by DWD with
inputs from NWSC and submitted to IDA no laterthn Febnwy 15 and August 15
each year of project implementation. The format would be mutually agreed upon prior
to the date of the submission of the first report and would be modified as appropriate
during the implementation of the Project. The cunrent status of project implementation
as measured by the Key Peifomance Indicators (Anne 13) and the status of
procurement (Para. 3.34) would form part of the progress report. Assurances were
also obtained from the Government during negotiatons that an annual Implementaion
Review Workshop to review the operational, financial and institutional performance of
the Project during the preceding 12 months would be held no later than March 15 every
year of projet implementation, with the participation of all concerned. DWD, with
the assistance of NWSC, would prepare a Prject Completion Report, the contents and
format of which would be agreed upon during the last World Bank supervision mission.
The Government would submit this report to IDA within 6 months after the completion
of the Project, that is by December 31, 2001. A detailed Supervision Plan is shown in
Ann, 14.
MuwTM REVIEw
4.30        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govemment, with
the asistance of NWSC, would cary out a Mid-Term Review of progress made with
project implementtion jointly with IDA by no later than March 31, 1997. The
Government, with the assistance of NWSC, shall prpare an evaluation report and
submit it to IIDA at leat one month before the Mid-Term Review. The main areas to
be covered by the Mid-Term Review and to be contained in the above-mentioned report
are: evew of experience with the implementation procedure in each town (Town
Imlemenaidon Process, Anne 4); exeience with the formation of the WUGs and the
establishment and functioning of the WSCs and WUAs; the progress of project
implementtion as measured by the Key Perfomnance Indicators (Anne 13);
performance and use of technical assistance persnnel, their national counterparts, and
consultants; su and results of training; reporting, accounting and audit performance,
including SOBs; sta  of procurement (Para 3.34); disbursenent procedures and the
use of the Special Accounts; and pwvso  for the future susainability of the



- 45 -
invements financd through  e Prje   The prcipal focus of tihe  vw would be
the oanitol arrangements at the community lvel, thdr deg  of autonomy from
Government and tieir repr EenIaiveness of hir consitency, tieir effecivness i
paripatg in the planning of the schemes, nd their p     to mnage and
finace OMR. The proedur followed in project implemention and e role of thie
ornizations involved may have to be modified, dpending on &te outome of the
reviw. During negotions the Government agreed to pwoy cary out the
recommendations tha would reslt from fte Mid-Tem Review.



- 46-
~~~~~ACL
V. PROJECT JUSTIFCATION
5.01        The Project is deigned to improve the water supply and sanitation
condiions of the inhaitants of 11 towns and therba-Njeru seice are  The focus
would be placed on communities in these to    who demotate a demand fo
improved s:ees and are willing to paricipate in the  bilitaion and constuction of
their infrstucture. JInja, the st   d largesttown in Uganda, would have its 40 year
old water supply and sewerage system rehabilitatbd, addressing the need of all income
groups. Commerci and industi ventures in the 11 towns and Jmja-Njeru would
also benefit from the improved seri thus assting in enomic recovery.
5.02        The main benefits from the Proect woud be (i) better health hou  the
improved personal hygiene, ereta disposal, and waste management and (i) dme and
effort saved in fetching water and i the daily routine of peronal hyge through a
more convenient location of latrines and toilets. The target popuation conist of
people to be newly served  ith waer supply and/or samtaion in the project area and
the people whose system would be rehabilitated. Out of a present (1991) popuon of
188,000 in the project area (11 towns, Imja and Njeru) it is estmated Xt some 60,000
are now served with a water supply system, which however provides an adequate
supply for only about half of them,, that is 30,000 (for a breakdown per town, see
Annex 1, Tabk C). For the remaining 30,000, the water supply is idequate insofar
as the water availability may be unreliable (intermittent or not functioning for several
days at a time), too much crowding at the water point (too many people per water
point), too far from ithe home, or some other problem. The deign population in the
year 2001 in the proect area is esmated at 271,000. The Project would provide a
new water supply service to 126,000 people which, when added to the 30,000 to
benefit from rehabiltaton, bnngs the total populkadon t  would beneftfom water
supply through the Projea to 156,000, or 58 percent' of the totl future population in
the project are  The Project would thus increase the coverage of water supply in the
project area fon the present 15 percent with adequate service to 69 percent2 at the end
of the Project Of the 126,00 people to eceive new supplies, 78,000 are expected to
be served with a piped system (mostly standposts, and a few household connections),
36,000 by handpumps (mounted on boreholes or dug wells;, And 12,000 by protected
springs.
5.03        Apart from prviding increased coverage with water supply and
sanitation by the ftme the Project is completed, specfic measures are included to
grealy impwove the chances of susining a better service beyond the duration of the
Project. One of them is the active participation of the beneficiaries in the planning,
1  156,000 .f 271000 Is S.
2  28= of IM000 s 15  (1991) and 186,0of 271,000 b 6 S (2W1).



- 47 -
implementation, and operation and maintenance of the technologies, that is a demand-
driven approach, which would increase the role of the beneficiaries in manag  their
own water and sanitation and facilitate the participation of the private sector. Another
feature is the institutional strengthening and reorientation of DWD at headquarters and
in the districts so that it could better perform its role of a planner, facilitator, and
regulator of the sector rather an an implementor. The institutional capacity of district
and urban authonties and community organtions involved in the sector would also be
strengthened, all of which is the subject of Part C: Institutional Strengthening, of the
Project. Training would mainly benefit the civil servants participating in project
implementation and the members of WSCs and WUAs and the functionaries worling
under them. The refinement of the demand-driven approach and the capacity building
component would improve future projects.
POVERTY ALLEVIATON
5.04       The poverty profile of Uganda places 57 percent of the rural population
in the category of 'poor' (below USh 6,000 per month) while 38 percent of the urban
population is classified as poor. The foRowing characterizes the policy of GOU
towards poverty alleviation:
The Government's stated overarching objecive over the next decade is to
seriously rduce the levls of poveny in Uganda. To achieve dtus  would
have tofocus its atedon on two sets ofpolicies: () policies whh would
accelerUte economic growh, and riJ) policies which would deliver key services
to the poor and, by hivesing in human capitl, ensure tat the poor are abk
to paiticipate equiably in that growth.1
5.05       The proposed Project includes the entire population in the project towns
regardless of their income and seeks suitable solutions for different income groups
through participation of the beneficiaries in planning, implementation, and OMR. The
formation of WUGs on the basis of neighborhoods also provides the opporunity for
low-income households to find their own solution rather than to depend on the 'spill-
overs' from the solution that is often based on meeting the needs of the upper income
users. Low income households may not be witling (or able) to pay the cost of water
from a tap, but an improved service would nevertheless be provided for them in the
form of a well with handpump or an improved spring. Simily with waste water,
where sewerage and even the lower-cost septic tanks would in all likelihood be
demanded by only a few, while the majority would opt for an improved pit latrine.
The communitfes would however be encouraged to make their own decisions about the
level of water supply and sanitation service which they are willing to pay for rather
an having others, who may not be adequately informed, make the decision for them.
1   Ugaud - . owin Oat of    ,Wr Wadd   1993; pa 137, pargah 9.1.



- 48 -
IMPACT ON WOMDT
5.06        As women have primary responsibility for the health of their families
and are often the drawers of water, improvements in the wate supply and sanition
facilities would have a beneficial impact on women. They would have more time to
devote to other household activities, including those for income geneation, as a result
of improvements in water supply. Improved sanitadon at the household level would
lead to better health for the entire family when accompanied by hygiene improvements,
an activity where again the women would play a key role. To increase the likelihood
of success, it is strongly recommended in the Policies and Gidelines (Annex 3), which
contin the basic principles for the community-based maintenance approach to water
supply and sanitation in small towns, that at least half the members of the committees
should be women.
ENMRONMTAL bMACr
5.07        The Project is classified Environmenal Assessem Category B as it may
have some specific environmental impacts. Limited environmental studies were
accordingly carried out, with the results summarized in Paras. 5.08 and 5.09. The
additional amount of water which would be abstracted from the Nile Basin as a result
of project activities is estimated to be no more than 3.1 million cubic meters per year,
of which at least half would be returned to the basin (Par. 4.23). The Government of
Uganda has notified the four ripaan stateS: Tanmnia, Egypt, Sudan, and Kenya of the
Project and its absaction implications. All riparian stes have msponded, raising no
objection to the Project. It is the Bank's view that implementation of the Project would
not cause appreciable qualitative nor quantitative harm to any of the riparian states in
the Nile basin. It is not anticipated th any famiLies would have to be resettled as part
of the Project, but should some rettlement be required, adequate compesation would
be paid to the affected families as per the Govenment's resettement plan (Para. 4.23).
5.08       J*fa-Njera -  The planned water supply interventions in Jinja would
not increase the water supply treatment caacity and therefore the requirements for
water abstraction at the source, but would rather deal with the rehabilitafion and
modification of the existng water treatent plant, including the water intake structure,
rehabilitation of the water mains and water distribution network, and xtension of the
network in Jmja, Njeru, and adjacent areas. The present capacity of the water
tetment plant is sufficient to sply these additional consumers. For waste water
treatment, the existing sewer lines and waste water stabilimtion ponds at the two
treatment plants in uinja would be rehabiitated and modified to accommodate the
additional flow that is expected to result from sewer rehabilitation and to improve the
quality of the effluent from the two sewage treatment plants. The basic design of the
existing plants is considered adequate: the sewage breatment plant which discharges into
a papyrus swamp which ultmately drains into Lake Victoria has currently three ponds
in series, and the plant which discharges directly into the Ni-le below Owens Falls dam



- 49 -
- with a high dilution of the effluent - provides primary trtent. The rehabilitation
and modificaion of these plants, including the development of revised opetonal
procedures, would therefore be primarily concemed with improving the long-term
operating efficiency to assure  at a sisfactory quality of the effluent would be
maintained in the long run. Monitoring of the quality of the effluent and receiving
waters is part of the on-going Second Water Supply Ptrect (Credit 2124-UG). In
Njeru, which is locatd next to Jinja on the left bank of the Nile, a new waste water
treatment plant woud be built to treat waste water that is cufrendy discharged direcdy
into the Nile without tratment and the existing sewers extended to include additional
large sources of wast water, such as from some housing estates. Environmental
conditions throughout the Jinja-Njeru area would also be improved through the
upgrading of existing latrines and septic tanks and the construction of new ones.
5.09        Smal Townts -  Special attention would be paid in design and
implementation of the water supply and sanitation improvements to mitigate negative
environmental effects. Additional water abstractions would be minimal because most of
the additional piped water supply would be obtained through the rehabilitation of
existing installations and the improvement of exsting springs. Groundwater would be
tpped for additional water withdrawals wherever there is sufficient yield.
Furthermore, the interdve design and implementatin process with communities is
likely to result in better (and most affordable) solutions to the siting of boreholes, hand-
dug wells, spring protection measures, and the construction of waste water stabilization
ponds, septic tanks, and latrines. Improvements of the urban environment in the small
towns would result from imprvements in sanitation facilities, and hygiene education.
Presently there is no reliable emptying service for septic tanks in these towns.
5.10        Sustainability in the water supply and sanitation sector in Uganda has
been constrained by a lack of financial and human resources to adequately operate and
maintain the eisting investments. Eience in Uganda and elsewhere has shown that
the chance of achieving long term sustinabilit is greatly increased by community
participation in the technology choice, level of service and cost implications, and
opeaion and maintenance of the water supply and sanitation facilities. These
principles would also be folowed in the Project, as described in the Policies and
Gudeln  (n  3). Through their partcipation in the technology choice for water
supply and sanitaton improvements - assodated with a commensurate contribution to
the capital cost - the beneficiaries would acquire the sense of ownership of the
installatons necessary for their willingness and ability to operate and maintain them
once they are completed. User organizatons (see Paras. 2.07(d) and 4.03) would be
formed specifically for water supply and santaion and would be esponsible for
maging  e installations in their care. As part of the Project the DWD would be
further reoriented and strengthened in its new role of planner, facilitator and regulaor
rather tban an implementor in the sector.



- 50 -
PROJEcr RLsw
5.11        The anticipated risks with this relatively new approach of providing an
affordable and sustainable service with the active involvement of the communities have
primily to do with the definition of roles and functioning of the new commiunity
organizations to be created and with the impact of decentralizon on future
administrative functions of the Government. The following are considered to be the
main risks:
a. The implementation of the Govemment's administrative decentralization
policy involving district administratiors, which was approved in July 1992,
has not yet progressed to a level where the new relationship between the
district administrations (RC-5 level), the town administrations (RC-3 or 4
level), and the cental government is clearly defined. The risk of local
govemment and central government institutional conflict does exist and needs
to be monitored. Periodic follow-up and supervision would be provided by
the DWD to monitor the performance of the WUGs, WUAs, and the related
WSCs.
b. Similarly, the newly established Water User Groups, Water User
Assoiations, and Water and Sanitation Committees would require project
implementation experience before the risk of management conflicts, due to
overlapping responsibilities and functions, is removed.
c. The technical and managerial capability of some of the town administrations
may be insufficient for effective project implementation. While select staff
of all town administrations and selective district administrative personnel
involved in project implementation would be given apprpriate taining,
back-up arrangements would be made by DWD to fill gaps that may arise.
d. The efficiency and accountability of the lower-level resistance councils,
particularly RC-1, varies greatly. The RC system tends to be most effective
in situations where the population is relatively homogeneous and most people
know each other well. Towns generally do not fit this desciption. While the
RC's would not be the direct managers, they would supervise the election of
committees and may unduly interfere in their management. The community
mobilization activities would have to take this into account, and it may be
necessary to monitor and support community involvement beyond the period
of project implementation.
d. WSCs and WUAs may lack the management and technical know-how to
fulfill their mandate. They would be given technical and management
support to provide stability and institutional arrangements which provide
maintenance mechanics and spare parts expeditiously and at a reasonable
cost. WSCs and WUAs would make repairs themselves, hire the services of



- 51 -
a private mechanic, or get technical support at the district level. Back-up
support from local authorities should also be pvided. Spare parts are at
present imported and distibuted by external support agencies, and piped
system components are imported by NWSC, mailuy through donor-assisted
projects. A satisory system of spare parts distrbution would be
establisbed as part of the Project (Pan. 3.09).



- 52 -
6.01        The following agreements with or assurnces from the Government or
NWSC were reached during negotiatons:
a.  DWD to establish a satitory system of spare par distribution for
handpumps and other water and sanitation techologies by January 31, 1995
(Para 3.09);
b.  DWD to cay out public hygiene education in consultaton with MOH and
the distict aministatons, and conduct two workshops to review progress,
not later than November 30, 1995, and November 30, 1998, reectively,
and MOH to assist DWD in sanitaon and hygie educaton activities
(Pma. 3.10);
c.  NWSC to cary out sanitaton and hygiene education acdvides in
colaboation -nwith MOH, MOLG, Jmja Municipal Council, Njeru Town
Council, and DWD (Para. 3.14);
d.  NWSC to complete a Water Demand Study in rmja-Njeru and a
imnological Study, both by September 30,1995 (Pra. 3.14);
e.  DWD to complete (1) an Oganaon  ssessment and Planning Study by
March 31, 1995, and (Hi) a p ic     gani   Assessment and
Stategic Planning Study of DWD by Setoember 30, 1995 (Pam. 3.16);
f.   Government and NWSC to use the sandard bidding docments issued by
the Bank and Goverment to form a procurement committe within one
month after project effeciveness (Pagm 3.33);
S.  Govenment to have the project accounts audited and to send the auditors'
reports to lDA within si months of the end of each financial year, and
NWSC to have its accounts and the accounts of the Prqect audited and to
send the adito' rer to IDA within nbie months of the end of each
financial year (Pam. 3.38);
h.  Govemnment to establish, and maintn for the duration of the Project,
adequate staffing in DWD for proect Implemention (Pam. 4.02);
L   Be    the impltin of any civil works for a specific town other than
Jinja and Njeru, Goemment to produce evidence of (i) existnce of land



- 53 -
rights for the sites required for the Pioject, and (ii) conclusion of a written
agreement between the Government and WSCs (Puaa. 4.04);
j.   NWSC to estabis, and maintain for the duration of the htoject, adequate
staffing in NWSC for proect implementation (Par. 4.05);
k.  Government to ensure that its ministries and parastatal bodies pay NWSC
promptly for water and sewerage charges, and to enable NWSC to make
water tariff increases on a quarterly or more frequent basis (Pan. 4.10);
1.   NWSC to carry out a valuation of the fixed assets of the water supply and
sewerage facilities in Jmja and Njexu by June 30, 1997 (Para. 4.10);
m. NWSC to improve its billing and collection efficiency to agreed percentages
and maintain efficient billing operations (Para. 4.10);
n.  NWSC to adjust its tariffs to ensure that funds would be generated from
intnal sources equivalent at least 20 percent of the its capital expenditure,
and by July 30 of each year review whether it would meet this requirement
and shall fuish to IDA a copy of this review (Para. 4.10);
o.  WUGs and WUAs would have the primary responsibility for OMR of the
water and sanitation facilities (Para. 4.15);
p.  District administatons and urban authorities would assist in the
establishment of WUGs and WUAs, and carry out regular hygiene
education activities (Pan. 4.19);
q.  Government, with the assistance of NWSC, to hold a Projec Lunch
Work,hop within ftree months of project effectiveness, submit to IDA
progress reports by February 15 and August 15 every year, hold an
implementation review workshop by March 15 every year, and prepare a
Project Completion Report within six months of project completion (Pans.
4.28 and 4.29); and
r.   Government to carry out a Mid-Term Review by no later tha March 31,
1997 (Pam. 4.30).



- 54 -
CoNDmoNs oF CrEDIT
6.02        Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are for:
a.   Govemment to settle all overdue debts to NWSC (Pam. 4.10);
b.  Govemment to submit evidence that it has established a legal and reglatory
framework for the functioning of the WSCs and WUAs (Pam. 4.23); and
c.   Government to prepare a saisfatry Impkmealon Mawal (Par 4.27).
CONDoTIONS OF   D      _
6.03        Conditions of disbursement for Part B, Jinja-Njeru:
a.  Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement (Pra. 3.22);
b.  NWSC to provide IDA with any overdue audit accounts (am 3.38); and
c. Evidence of land rights for the sites required for the Project in rmja and
Njeru (Pam. 4.23).
RECOMMEA ON
6.04        Based on the above assurances and agreements, the Prqject is suitable for
a credit to the Republic of Uganda of SDR 30.4 million (US$42.3 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms with forty years matuity including ten years of grace.



ANNEXES



TABLE A                                                         WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR
l lYEWNTST ATUS 1§91V
Ah*vt                 F)W.d                    DOiW         Popukalo       Total cogiT  o                              aac teob
Nuber                Desc4t                                 to be Sewed   of te Proe        EV&%etw                  Rw wed 4ft
(X IC)                     to 1    19    to Juew 19      AM 7994
(SI-li)           of Katwe/abatom,               Frn
Buseyi Iaka and Rakai water                                   25          6.22           0.14           4.26          1.96
sandsaiotnsysm
W-02
(SI-12)    ganda Secnd Wae Project                DA                  176          84.95          31.72         52.65          32.3
WI-03
(SI-I0)       Uzn Cantres - Gul, bra,            AIDB                  65          22.32          21.16         22.32
Kamuli, and Mbaram                     ADF
(SI'-32A)   naSl Towns Wateand                    MA                  160          51.18           1.81          S.36          45.82
Sniai Prjec                          PHRD Grant
(81-3    Rh)   onOf labal, F. Portal              KfW                 103          28.13           1.02          6.88          21
Hom_a, Masind, Kaseso, Mubende
ff;-14)              and contucto of            UNICEF              6,000          18.37          10.69         tS.02           3.35
rura water suppls oounryw-de
(SI-83)   Rm  Water and Sanitation in Eatn     DANIDA                 400          47.69          14.79         23.24         24.45
(81-98)    yd0geology, P1. I, Uganda                                                0.44          0.14           0.14          0.30
S



Amex I
Page 2 V 4
TAN  RB URAL TOWNS WATER AND SAITATION PROG
PROPOSED FINANCING PACKAGES
Town            Dis*d         CPnJ Projed Ped                       poed
Populoa        PopdloX             JTandg
(Year 1991)    (Year 2001)
1. Busia            Tororo                27,745         37,287       World Bank
2. Ialis            Rakai                  2,367          3,182       Phase I
3. Kyotera          Rakai                  5,134          5,672
4. Lugi             MUkoDo                13,668          18,369
S. Luwero           Luwero                10,917          16,160
6. LyantDnde        Rakai                  5,317          8,661
7. Malaba           Tororo                 7,038          12,604
8. Mjeru            Mukono                37,538         50,448
9. Ntungamo         Mbarara                2,411          5,207
JO. Rakai           Rakai                   551           1,084
11. Rukwb           Ruugiri                8,382         13,654
12. Wobulenzi       Luwero                 5.3 S    i
126,712        180,684
1. Bugiri/Naluwerere  Iganp                9,504         15,424       World Bank
2. Kahorwa          Kapchorwa              4,516          6,685       Pbase II
3. Kotido           Kotido                 4,551          6,116
4. Kumi             Kumi                  11,841          17,527
5. Moroto           Moroto                10,367          13,933
6. Nakapiripriti    Moroto                 1,541          2,760
7. Ngora            Kui                    7,877          11,660
8. Soroti           Soroti                40.60          54.566
90,799        128,671
1. Apac             Apac                   5,765         11,340       African
2. Dokolo           Lira                   2,241          3,651       Development
3. Igana              anga                19,911         26,760       Fund
4. Kaberamadio      Soroti                 3,929          6,400
S. Kigumba          Masindi                1,567          3,083
6. Kltgum           Kitgum                 8,177          14,644
7. Mtyana           Mubende               23.042          0,967
64,632         96,845
1. Fort Portal      Kabarole              32,839         48,610       KfW  2
2. Hoima            HoIma                  7,853          10,554
3. Kabale           Kabale                27,905         39,363
4. Kasese           Kasese                18,723          30,498
S. Masindi          Masindi               12,574          19,527
6. Mubende          Mlubnde               142698         Z0.7 3
114,592        169,28S



Ana I
TABLE B RURAL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROGRAM
PROPOSED FINANCING PACKAGES
TOwA           Ditzdt        Cwwzt         PAr#eded
Fopulati       Populatdog
(Yar 1991)    (YeOr 201)
1. Anua            Arua                21,957         29,508      FPa
2. Busheny/Jishaka   Bushenyl           14,213        21,039
3. Koboko          Arua                 4,012          7,185
4. Moyo            Moyo                  6,688         10,895
S. Nebbi           Nebbi                6,970          10,317
6. Pakwash         Nebbi                5.169        7..62
53,009        86,596
1. &isro           io                   7,489         11,086      Austia
1. Budaka          Tororo                 781          1,687      DANDA
2. BuIkwe          MUkDmo                1,386         2,482
3. Kaliro          KamWi                 1,801         2,934
4. K=amli          Kamuli                5,693         9,274
S. Kaimba          MukonD               3,393          5,527
6. KayuAp          Mukono               13,969        20,677
7.     Isanga                           2,440          3,280
S.  oubw           Mukno                7,446         13,335
9.  1mawn          Kamuli                1,447         2,645
iQ Ngo             Mukono                 392            847
1I. Paiu           Paiisa       'Li
41,659        68,973
1. Bombo           Luwero              10,603         15,695      Unid
2. Bundbugyo       Bundibugyo           6,715          10,938
3. Hima            Kas                   3,943         6,423
4. lia             Ses Lslands           1,377         2,973
S. Kut"            Kasese                6,327         11,331
6. Kiboa           Kpboga                5,027         7,441
7. Kilembe         Kasese                5,203         7,702
8. Mpigi           Mpigi                7282          Ilam
46,477        73,282
545,369       815,422
A. 111s Msdi a       Sen wio wts  Ib4diaR  Town Watr aS nld Pmakaia Ibog.m z Urn tieo  w
Ams befe a_  Se e fw r A_an4 h&~ osBos, H  Was KbK, KNO m, K2m14UP,Mbt WbL
U ar=d=mim



TABLE C                          lTIff  TEA OF PROJECT COVERAGE
Year Z_                                             Year 20__,
Populati     Popaion   Popuaon                                  New Sere_                    TOt to be
TO WN       (Census)     Served     Projeciox  (see noe 1)   New Seryke  San4poss    sAmp   Sprigs    Sered by
with Water                             TOa                                       Projec
Busia             27,745        8,850      37,300       4,425       22,760     9,150     7,110      6,500      27,185
Kalisizo           2,367        1,220       3,200         610        1,590       250     1,340         0        2,200
Kyotera            5,134           0        5,700           0        4,560     2,100     2,460         0        4,560
Lugaz             13,668        5,300      18,400       2,650       10,480     5,730     3,500      1,250      13,130
Luwero             0,917        5,750      16,200       2,875        8,360         0     6,360      2,000      11,235
Lyanonxde          5,317         SO0        8,700         250        6,560     2,600     3,960         0        6,810
Malaba             7,038         700       12,600         350        9,520     4,760     3,570      1,190       9,870
Ntungamo           2,411         750        5,200         375        3,560     1,720      1,340      500        3,935
Rakai                551           0        1,100           0         880        880         0         0          880
Rukubgiri          8,382        4,250      13,700       2,125        7,560     4,210     3,350         0        9,685
Wobulenzi          5,6i44       1500        8,400         750        5,520     2,260     2,860       400        6,270
Sub-TobI          89,174       28,820     130,500      14,410       81,350    33,660    35,850    l1,840       95,760
Jinja             60,979       30,490      90,000       15,245      29,755    29,755         0         0       45,000
Njem              37,538        1,750      50,400         875       14,595    14,595         0         0        15,470
Sub-Total         98,517       32,24K     140,400      16,120       44,350    44 350         0         0       60,470
TOTALS           187,691       61,060     270,900      30,530      125,700    780,0 U              f189        156,230
No%e 1:     lbs eadwue of 50% of dt 1991 toos popuXloa wft adequt sevs was usd as a basis fo  do psjs kw=  sequlzaat.
1k



Anna 2
Page 1 of 5
TeIsos:     242swr;             *              Minis" of Finance ad
Kampala 243054& 232370                  Economic Planning,
Telex:      23470 (10 Lnes)                    P.O. Box 8147,
Telegnm: GWIIC.                                Kampala.
Inany dne No.                              Ugarnda.
'"M'Ybw rul pe quX No   _    s> MPWaLuOF UGANO
7th January, 1994.
Mr. Gerhard Tschannerl,
Senior Municipal Engineer,
Energy and Infrastructure,
Operations Division.
SECTOR POLICY ON WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FCM SMALL TOWNS
I am enclosing the letter on Sector Policy for Water supply
and Sanitation for Small Towns as required in the Agreed Minutes
of November 1st to 4th, 1993 between the Uganda delegation and
World Bank Officials.
\ J.C.Kasamunyu
for:  PERMANENT SECRETARY/SECRETARY TO THE TREISURY
---------------------------------------------



Ama2
Page 2 of5
REPUBLUC OF UGANDA
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FOR SMALL TOWNS
The Government of Uganda has continued to pursue the reconstruction of
water supply and sanitation system since 1986 soon after inheriting the
unenviable status that resulted from several years of conflict and wars.
Geology Indicates that Uganda has ample surface and ground water which has
hitherto remained undeveloped.
Currently approximately 30x of the rural populatlon( constituting about 90%
of the country's total population) have access to water from Improved sources,
having risen from 20% in 1989.
Nine major urban centres have their piped water supply and sanitation
systems operated by the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC)
parastatal on a cost recovery basis with nationally uniform applied tariffs,
whilst the rest of the smaller urban centres either do not have any system
at all or the.r operation Is inadequate as well as intermittent.
The Government recognises the significant Impact on health and development
accruing from the provision of safe water and therefore intends to adopt the
sectoral implementatlon mechanisms which ensure sustainable replication and
extension of coverage. The principal medium term objectives In the water
sector are described below:-
We wish to Increase the populations access to safe and clean drinking water
all the year round. Specifically at the rural level, the objective Is to achieve
a maximum walking distance of 1.5 Km for every household by the year 2000.
This is mainly aimed at reducing the number of hours spent travelling long
distances and waiting In queues to fetch water by especially women who are
at same time labour providers In the peasant farming system. This means that
time saved from collecting water is transformed Into other productive
employment or lelsure activities. School enrolment and classroom attendance
time especially at primary level similarly will benefit from this achievement
since most children, notably girls are often allocated this work at the
expense of school time.
In order to build up a sense of ownership, responsIbility and proper use of
the Improved facilitles In the sector Government has continued to favour the
promotion of community Involvement In mobilisation, participation, hygiene and
health education, together with the operation and maintenance of these
facilities. This has successfully been Implemented under an effective three
way Institutional arrangement between Non-Governmental Organisations
(NGOs)/donors -foreign and local, various public bodles but primarily the
Directorate for Water Development (previously the Water Development Depert-
ment), and local communities In the rural areas. The first group were
principally executing agents, the second providing borehole drililng teams
and speclalists, whilst the third being responsible for labour, water source
protection and partial cost recovery under an aided community based
maintenance system (CBMS).



AN22
Page 3 of S
We have been emphasizing the CBMS in order to ensure that point sources
easily manageable at village/source level are highly available for use (source
avallability ratlo) and are actually used (effective source utilisation ratio) by
the populace. Under the CBMS pump mechanics, spring/well masons, source
caretakers and communities are set up to take the role of management at the
lowest appropriate level.
This Institutlonal arrangement has resulted in the remarkable 10X Increase of
rural water coverage In the past 5 years with the source availability ratio
standing at 85% (of the rehabilitated sources) and the effective source
utilisatlon ratio rising to over 90%. The previous Water Development Depart-
ment, which was the sole Government department responsible for the sector
activities In the rural areas has undergone a restructuring exercise imple-
mented by Government, resulting in the uplifting of its status to a directorate.
As a result, its operating mechanisms are now being consolidated to enhance
Government pursuit of the overall sector goals.
For Urban water supply the National Water and Sewerage Corporation is the
only Government parastatal set up in 1972 to operate on a self-financing
arrangement In providing piped water supply and sewerage systems In
selected towns In the country. Currently, coverage Is approximately 75% of the
town residents In the nine towns of Kampala, Jinja , Tororo, Mbale, Entebbe,
Masaka, Mbarara, Gulu and Llra having risen from 50% four years ago. The
latter two were taken on In 1992.
At the present time, however, the Kampala Water supply and sewerage system
Is the only one constantly registering financial surpluses whilst the rest
either break-even or are operating at a loss. These losses are therefore
compensated for by cross-subsidy from the surplus generated from the
Kampala City system. This phenomenon Is however attributed to the high level
of economic activity, affordability and willingness to pay for water concen-
trated in Kampala as compared to the other towns. Although this Is a welcome
scenario at the macro economic level, in which the 'rich" subsidise the
"poor" and therefore catalyses development, it is constrained by the increas-
Ing number of urban centres In the country which will require effective oper-
aticns and management of systems as they are either rehabilitated or provided
anew. Therefore, If NWSC is expected to operate free of external subsidy, it
Is evident that a fresh approach to the requirements of the remaining urban
centres Is essential.
Towards the end of the 1980's and for the last two years Government has
drafted and discussed various reports aimed at Implementing policies that
favour achievements of the sector objectives within the stated time schedule.
Some of these reports have been adopted culminating In the uplifting of the
Water Development Department into the Directorate for Water Development
(DWD).
2



Awnn 2
Page 4 Of 5
In order therefore to specifically address the urban water supply and
sanitation Issues, the Government embarked on a programme preparation In
April 1991 under the Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Programme (RTWSP),
ultimately covering some 250 towns and trading centres. Sixty typical centres,
at least one from each district, were studied in a programme preparation, and
the results clearly indicated that for sustainability of future water supply
systems, allowing beneficiaries a choice in determining key elements of the
investment at the planning stage Is essential (I.e a demand driven, beneficiary
community based approach). This augers well with the current overall Govern-
ment process of democratic decentrallsetion and therefore reduction of
Government subsidles in the operation and maintenance of the otherwise would
be viable systems under Independent -management arrangements. This was
followed by the preparation of some eleVen centres for appraisal for an IDA
credit for the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project (STWSP), the first
project under the programme. In the course of the STWSP project preparation,
the policies, techniques and methodologies were further developed for RTWSP,
resulting in the attached "Policies and Guidelines".
In line with these Policies and Guidelines, the Government Is now endeavour-
ing to assist all rural towns, through 'the Directorate for Water Development,
to obtain a minimum defined basic service level for water supply and sanita-
tion whilst encouraging higher levels of service In piped systems In order to
Increase revenue and better ensure sustainability. A baslc service level for
water Is defined as- a protected Year round suDoly of 20 litres oer caMita
oer day. oreferablv within 250 to 500 metres of all urban households and
servina 200 to 300 Dersons oer outlet: whilst a baslc service level for
sanitation means an Imoroved household latrIne. In line with the
decentralisation programme launched In October, 1992, Government continues
to favour the operational management of water supply systems in these urban
areas under a loca-lsed community mechanism, so that the Government role
remains that of the establishment of the Infrastructure and policy environ-
ment, conducive for private sector continued Involvement In the development
process. This Is aimed at creating room for Government to provide social
infrastructure on a  some for all N and cut down on 'more for some and none
for the rest", scenarios.
This demand driven strategy is based on Individual towns, and groups within
those towns, first deciding whether or not they want to participate In the
programme and then deciding the type of water supply and sanitation system
that want and can afford to maintain, assessed on the basis of their willing-
ness to pay to maintain the services once provided. It Is Government intentlon
to encourage district and local polltical and administrative bodies to provide
support services to beneficiary communities, whilst locally materials will be
avallable through the private sector, and the majority of the Investment will
be provided to the beneficiary communities by Government on a grant basis.
3



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
We intend to emphasize continued negotiations with the beneficiary communities
at various levels to ensure that they are committed to accept responsibility
of maintaining the facilities gained through these investment grants. In towns
where the communitles are reticent to fulfil their commitments, Government will
drop the town In favour of another. This phased implementation approach will
allow for full demonstration and development of the applicability and benefits
of the approach in a dynamic development process.
We place very high pri6rity on the level of training of locally based person-
nel, similar to the CBMS in rur%l water supply for simple technologies such as
handpumps, hence limiting tt   DO role to effectively that of monitorlng and
evaluation of the operations    ne systems, and providing technical assist-
ance, If required by the communities for their operation and maintenance
activities. The objective is for the beneficiary communities to own their
systems and to take full responsibility for all technical and financial manage-
ment for the recovery of recurrent costs.
To maintain their water supply and sewerage systems communities must have
access to spare parts and components that will need to be replaced recurrent-
ly. At the present time the spareparts falling within this category are largely
Imported and distributed by external assistance agencies to Government
through the Directorate for Water Development and the National Water and
Sewerage Corporation. Government through Its on-going process of
liberallsation defined as" moving towards policies that work through marketse
is evidently desirous of changing this arrangement to creating an enabling
environment for the privatc sector Involvement, Including commerclal borehole
drilling, and local manufacture and distribution of the necessary parts and
materials. This Is intended to ensure greater sustalnability of the supply of
materials and spare parts In the sector hence reducing dependence on
external support for the availability of these materials In the future.
4



Anw 3
Pge I Of 8
POLICES AND G UMND 
for the
RURAL TOWNS WAR AND SArTATION ftOGRAM
of0ft Dhvdarift of Watw DeVelaopinat, MInistJ of Natural
INTRODUCTION
1.    This document sel out the policies and guidei of the Govenmnt of the Rwublc of
Uganda, thugh the Ministy of Aatr  Resour, rdated to the strategy for provision of water and
sanitation sevices to small tWnS ad rural gowti centers.  is has resulted fm prjec ppaon
activities under the Rura Towns Water  d Sanitaon Program (RTWSP). T1h pdicie and udelne
which follow represent a major shift in Govanment strategy towards a deceized approach to te
operaions and maintenance of services currently provided by Govaeme, to ens  sustainabiity of
the investment. Many policy elements contained in these Policies and Guideines have been applied
wh remarkable success in the WATSAN program, though in the conte  of rual water and sanit n
PNCIPLES
2.    A demand drWen approach, allowing the beneficiaies a choice in determining the key
elements of the project at the planning stage, is esential to esuring that limited Govement fiund ate
channeled to communies that wfll maintain their new or improved water supply and samnitation
systems. It also expedtes project implemenion by enugi  beneficiaries to meet their
commitments on schedule. This demand dnven sategy is based on indivi   towns, or grps witin
those towns, first deciding whether or not they want to participate in the progm and then decdg the
type of water supply and sanitation systems hat they want. Decision making will be guided by
Goverment constucton grant regulations and by tecnical conultants, an Importa consideation
being the willingpess of benfluries to contibut a porion of the capia cost ad to pay for All Of ihe
operation and maintenance costs for their systems. The process will start in a given geographic area
once the Directorate of Water Development (DWD) has secured financing for the group of towns
located there, at which time each town will be invited to participae in the program. Indidu  groups
within the towns will then receive technical assistance through the plaming, construction and follow-
up training phases, provided they meet agreed upon commitments on schedule. Those which do not
will have to await the next constuon phase.
3.    Saing wal is Important becase Implementaton saegies and traning materials and
methods need to be developed and key personnel trained before large-scale investmes can be made.
Consequently a phased approach will be adopted with implemention starting in a small umer of
towns and being scaled up as implementation capacity grows and additional fiancing becomes
available. The Smal Towns Water and Saniation Project (STWSP), misted by the World Bank, wil
be the first step in implementing a national RTWSP.
I     Mm Pdi*W adGddtasm  Wly datd inly 99 m bem  Unuigh samid ridamo& IOd   Gft
.pIemlondba eqad=us vrxV1ct     . Thy iwld e     in dxad   of an ovob y sd bea. doc_amt
being  kefy zefined vidi wded eao. It ib hodan o D u      w_adv umby dadeg U do_uot
ucb ew evisin.
My 13. t1994



Annax 3
Page 2 of 8
4.    Use groups wii eah town, fomed on the basis of managmet l, wil dtemin the
type of water system they want and how to manage it, inclig Opeado,      , rqeais and
revenue collecdon. The role of Govenment in this process will be tdat of a fclitator proviing
financing, constuction grat guidei  and regulatory overgh, and ensurin      communities
receive sound techical advice. The resistane ond  (RC-1 to RC-5) will take the lead role in
mobilizing town resident and idenfyi  Wae User Grps (WUG) within towns and the
establime  of Water and Snitaton ComwItees (WSC) that represe them. I the case of piped
systems serving more than one WUG, a Water User Asocation (WUA), made up of one or more
representatves of each WSC, wil be etablihed to manage the sysm   Plannin wil be done through
partcipatory dialogue with the assiance of locally based eension agents and ceontrally based
technical/traing consultans.
ORVES
5.    The objecdves of the RTWSP are:
o To assist all towns to obtain basic water and sanitation services, while encouraging higher
leveLs of service for those who can afford it.
*  To Increase the capacity of communies, the prvate seor and the Government to provide
and maintain sustainable water supply and sanitation facilities in small towns whereby
Govenment faitate private sector prvisin of goods and svices tO th commuities.
*  To promote better health, through improved peasona hygiene, excret disposal and
nvironmental management pracdces.
6.    Bask serice for waer supply Is defned here as a proected, year-rowd supply of 20 fter
per capita per d4y, preferably widhin 250 to    #mets of all houssos and sering 200 to 300
persons per o&et, and basca se,efer sa nki  dnd   a, an *prwd houseod latrie biuding
tse use of coaete slabs. To encourage higher levels of service for piped water spply syms, the
GOU will finance the source and disrbuion costs for houweiold connections and insituons under
normal cost sharing arn=gements (Pam  13), and inddhu  beneficiaies will be reqed to pay the
cost of comecting to the system. Due attentio will be paid to match service levels of sanitaon with
water supplies.
7.    Qperaden and  ,aitemaa   cos wl bejily bon, by the beficaries (and Instion)
cuding the relcem    of w*honent wit usfl l  ewtl ofup to abo  eight years.
JNsnTuoNa RzSoNSmuTizs
8.    Institnal responsibl*es can be did  into two broad areas: 0) mobilization and long term
support through ditict nd townlical and admistatve mechanisms, ad (I) traing and
technical assistance through a consulting fim contracted by DWD to fist assist towns to identify
WUGs and form WSCs and then to assist WUGs to plan and manage their water and saniao
facilities.
9.    Mobilization and long term support can only be provided by district nd town political and
adminisraive authories, partcularly in a decentralized sysm  For this reason actoal planning and
hJy 13, I99



AnN 3
Pae 3 of8
desig of systems will begin only after a mobUization phase for vhch loc aluhorits have the lead
responsibility.
10.   Technical assistance and taining in the towns wi be povided by a combnon of exten
services tihough Goverment personnel and consultat      ates    the loca level. This
combination takes advantage of the eqxrence of local personnd regarding the composition and
dynmics of the town and of consultant eperience in the RTWSP policies and implentation
procedures; ensures residents that someooe is accuntable and accessible; and provides for follow-up
support I also makes best use of a limie  umberof more highy tained pernnel, allowing them
to serve throughout the country.
11.   ExtnsIon services at the local level will Include (f) community mobilton including
idetfication of WUGs and establishment of WSCs and WUAs, (C) assistace to co _mnitis to assess
their needs and to plan their water supply and sation systems, (ii) pomotion of pre hygiene
and excreta disposal practices, and Ov) coordiaton of the assistance program for private mechanics
and latrine artisans. Technia support services at the nional level wiinclude Oi traing of local
extersion personnel, (ii) planning assistance to towns and WSCsIWUAs witin towns to help them
plan their water supply and sanitation systems and train them to manage them, (in) preparation and
review of town facilties and management plans, (iv) prearaton of designs, specificatons and bidding
doments, and (v) supervision of construct     At the end of each project one or more national
consulting firms would be capable to manage imple ion in new project areas, and local
Govenment and NGO personnel would be capable to provie folow-p support to WSCs/WUAs.
12.   The responsibilites of each instition involved in project implementation are as follows:
Communites will plan and manage their water and sanitaton facilities and Improve their
health by puXtg lessons learned about improved hygiene and proper disposal of exeta and
sullage water into practice.
A A Water User Group (WUG) is a set of iniviuals andlor households that colectively
plan a point sowurce water supply in their area and manage it including the collection of
revenue to mainan it For this purpose, and to look after saniation and hygiene
educatin each Water User Group wil be represented by a Water and Sanion
Committ  (WSC), which, by their choice, may be established by one or more WUGs with
common interests.
* In the case of piped systems serving more than one WUG, a Water User Assodation
(WUA) made up of one or more represetatves of each WSC, will be formed to manage
the system including the setting of tariffs and collection of revenue to maintain it
o WSCs, or WUAs for piped systems, terfce with DWD and techniaraining conswltants
to plan community water supply and santation sysms and determine how to manage
them.
o DWD and the Distict Executive Secretary (DES) will Sigp a FacUles and Manageme
Cowract with WSCs/WUAs based on a FahdMe and Maagemnem Pla that (1) specifies
the responsibilities of Government and beneficiaries, (u) descrbes the proposed water
supply fcilcities construction plans and management arrangements in sufficient detail to
allow design drawing ad spfications   be prepared and DWD to check for
confrmance to Consrucion  ant Gidines, and (Idi) provides a basis for legal
_mmy 13,1994



a                  a               b2
I.                d
ii          p             a
Iii iIt
I'm'
III                            .0
ill          El                       WI i.
oaUjg4
ig
I. !Iiii P    
I I ha p P1
                 lj          II
1
.0    'en  
Ii i     -        -.-           0
 I!!             j'j
Will lif    r             Ih  34111 I1
0         0@   0  0  i      0  **   0    00



Annex 3
Page S of 8
o Engage the services of constat and cntactr and spevis them.
•  Proe materials and equipmeft as and when required.
o  Supervlse program implemenion, monitor progress, and refie policies and guidelines.
o  Ensure interagency  din
o  Itroduce the program to local decision makes and community members.
o  Sign FacUaes and Manageme  Contrac with WSCs1WUAs when facilties plans, tms
and conditions for a construction grant have boee negotitd and agreed upon.
O Provide technical support to program towns through its local distict offices.
CoNsmucrlot GRANT GUIDELINS
13.   Government has responsibility for mistng communiies to obtain basic water and sanitation
services and for ensuring tha public funds are spent on cost effecdve faciities that wil be maintained.
In financial terms this means t  communities should pay part of die capial cost and all operation and
maint ce costs for improved water and sanitation faiities. A contributio to the capital costs, paid
in cash and kind as indicated in Para. 15, has a number of advatges. First, community
contributions, being proportional to the capital costs, serve as a guide to help communities choose a
system that is within their financial mean. Second, being about the same amount as a communit will
need to raise in the future to cover operations, maintenace and normal repair costs, they provide an
indication to Govermment as to whether or not beneficiaries will be willing and able to raise the funds
reauired to maitain their systems. lhird, they provide a basis for community ownership of the
sysnm
14.   Financing arngements for construction under the RTWSP will be as follows:
e The communty will contribute the equivalent of one year's operation and maintenance
costs as their conibution to the construction of a water supply system. For private
household connections the cost of the connection wil be borne in full by the households.
o Future rehabilitation and expansion of source works and mains will be financed on an
aropiate cost sharing basis to be determined. All rebabilitation and expasion of
secondary piping in a communty and individual conections wil paid for by the
bene.
15.    ommuites are reticent to give cash in return for a promise of a new water supply, while
Government is reticent to invest time and money to help a communiy obtain an improved water swpply
system if it won't meet ts com n . To buid confldence, community contributions wil be
collected in several insllments during the planning process: a commiment fee at the begining of the
plannig and design phase and at least their full capkal cost contrbution prior to the signing of
construction contas. The initia commitment fee as wel as ful community contbution to the
capital costs wil be retained in dedicated bank accouns controlled by WUGs and the Project prior to
the preparation of construction contracts. Actual payment wil be required only after the water source
has been testd for capacity and quality.
DRSGN AND CoNsmIuCTIoN
16.   It is important tha communites are able to dhoose die tecnoloVy that will give them the
highest service levd that they want, can aflbrd, and can maintain. Different priced water supply
Jautay 131994



Annx 3
Page 6 of8
options for both point sour  (springs, wls and boreholes) and piped systems will be idenfied, and
informatio materis, easly undrtood by comnunity groups, showing typical desis, costs (capital
and operadon and m )ainance) and management options wll be prepared. A Faci ides and
Manaemente Plan will be prepared with consultant assistance troug an eave process involving
local extension staff, WSCs, and WUAs (for piped syStm). A similar exercise will be carried out
presenting the sanition/sewerage options.
17.   Over design of pumps, piping and storage anks should be avoided, and individual components
should be locally available. Options will include manual, electric, diesel and solar pumps (booi deep
well and surfae mounted cenotgal pumps) as well as convendonal and smaller, locally-made storage
tanks. Handpump models suitable for corrosive goundwater conditions, i.e. with a PH value less an
6.8, are recommended. Groundwater sources including spring catchments, augured or dug wels and
bcreholes should be used whenever possible, as treatment of surface water is expensive and difficult to
manage in rural towns.
18.   Consucdon will be done by qualified contacto  and awarded dtru  competitive bidding,
following pre-quaificatlon, where apppriate. Civil work constructin will be planmed to
incorporate wherever possible the inid cotibutin  of the ommun  in the form of labor and
materials. For eample, commuites will assist in the construction of hand augured or dug wells,
spring catchments, and pipe trenches as part of their capital cost contibution.
19. Contract management procedures to be used in the project will be formulated during project
preparation, including preqalificatlon, bidding, consuction supervision and payment. Standard
bidding domen  will be used and preliminary geophysical surveying underten. Private borehole
contractors will be employed to supplement DWD drilling capacity.
MAinENANCE
20.   Mabnmance of point source water supply systems (bndpumps, spring catchments, and stand
pipes) will be the responsibility of Individual WUGs with day-to-day management provided by their
WSCs; and maintenace of all o-Ite sunitaton system  will be the responsibility of individual
households. The WSCs, unless otherwise decided by WUAs, will supervise use of the water point,
collect revenues, keep accounts, and make repirs themselves or hire the services of a private
mechanic. The WSCs will appoint a care taker (preferably a woman) who will be tained in the proper
use of the water point, simple repairs and mantenance, and sanition and hygiene exension work.
Privt mechanies in each town will be ienfied, trained, cerfied, and equip  with tools to carry
out the repar of hndpumps and other water points when called upon to do so by WSCs. DWD will
assist WSCs/WUAs to resolve technical problems through its Distrct Engineers who can advise
groups on the best course of action to take. Loca government peoel will monitor the maince
system and provide back-up supt M enc  of piped watr and sanitation systems will be the
responsibility of WUAs who normally wil contract operation, maitance and repair functons to a
private entity. Household revenue collection will be the responsibDity of individual WSCs, unless
otherwise determined by the WUA, who wil be charged by the association on the basis of water
delivered as metered at individual oudets (standpipes and house connections). Area meters should also
be instailed to act as a check on meter accurac and leals in the system. Someone on each WSC will
normally collect revenues from indiviual households, and each WUA will appoit/hire someone to
prepare waer bills and keep accounts.
Awaya 13, 1994



Annex 3
Page 7of 8
21.   To better ensure sustinablity, a nadonD rehablon progm needs to be establihed to
assist communies to pay for replacement of major equipent hving a useful life expectancy of more
than eight years (Para. 7). To be eligible WUGs/WUAs will be required to show proof ha annual
inspections by an authorized mechanc have been made and tha reommended preventatdve
maintennce work was completed.
22.   To maintain their water supply and sewer ystms communities must have access t spare parts
and componnt that wil need to be replaced with  eight ';ears, i.e. covered under normal by
opeation and maitenance. Until recenly bandpump spsre parts were ipor  and dsbted by
eternal assistance agencies, and piped system co _mp B were imported by the Goverment and the
National Water and Sewerage Corporation wih donor assistamce. The Program wil support the
approach taken in the RUWASA Project by encouraging lal hardware retailers or private mechanics
in Individual twns to arange with local suppliers of spare part.
23.   Of relevance to the RTWSP is the loa mamWatwre of small water storage tanks used in
intemediate tedcnology piped systems. These can signifcatiy reduce the cost of piped altenatives
and are affordable, maling replacement within the Uens of most small communities. The capacity in
diffrent parts of the contry to make small (2-10ml ) storage  k fom galvanized sheet metal will be
reviewed and if necessary technical support will be given to local mamuacurn Interested in
fibricadng them.
HUMAN RLsOUtCEs DEVEOPMENT
24.   Communities, program personnel, private contractors and mechanics will require considerable
training to undertakee their responsibilities and to learn about program policies and procedures. All
projet personnel will Q) learn communications kills tat encourage dialogue and pardcipation rather
than rely on directives, (i) master effective work planning skill including monitoring, evaluation, and
problem resolution, (ii) gain a thorough knowledge of the policies and the technical details of the
program, and iv) obtai speciaized trning and practical experience for their particular assignments.
During project preparaion general training 0-ill above) as well as specific taining maials for each
project specialst Ov above) wil be prepared and tested, as wil simple prentation mars needed to
help local authories and communties to plan their water supply and sanation facilities. Orientation
programs for decision makers will also be required in order to expose them to the new way of doing
business In the water sector.
TOWN IDPLEMIETATION PtOCESS
25.   Prograin pWr   ton for the RTWSP wil include O) test  and rement of the planming
and implementation process wihin a community; (d) refinent of water and sanitation construction
grant regulations (detailing tms, conditions and pocedum for project implementtion); iii)
preparadon and testing of training procedures and materis, and CIv) preparion of typical low-cost
water supply and sanitation deigns, specifications and tender documen for small user communities.
Consistent with the principle of starting small, the project process wvll be iniated in one or two
(maximum)  propriatly selected town so tht the implementaion ste  and traiing maerials can
be developed and refined, and expanded to other towns thereafter.
26.   DWD will, prior to officially inviing a paicular town to participate in the project, carry out a
low key rapid resource survey in order to comirm the populaton size and geographic distution;
iamaq 13,1994



Anne 3
Page 8 of8
the need and willingness to participate and pay; and to identify technical opons that are feaible.
Tbereafter the project will establish a formal contact with the district and town. A short descrption of
the proposed steps In the RTWSP In a given town follows.
Promodton Phase -  A series of meetings will be held at the district and then town levels,
so that a representative of DWD can discuss the program with local authorities and others
as requested. The outcome of this should be a decision by the relevant local authorities in
the towns concerned as to whether or not they wish to participate in the RTWSP. If yes,
DWD will then authorize a consultant to assist the town to mobilize for planning.
o MobilIzation Phase - If a town chooses to participate in the program it will open a
*contact point" (simple office) and establish the local extension personnel to identify their
preliminary WUG interest groupings and representation. Those parts of the community
who wish to proceed Jiny or severally, and deposit a commitment fee in a bank account
controlled by them jointly with the Project within an agreed upon schedule, and to be
utlized in an agreed manner, will continue on to the planning and design phase to establish
the final delineation of WUGs, WSCs, and WUAs and establish the chosen service level
and management structure details for each. Others will await a possible next project cycle
for their town.
o Planning and Design Phase -  The local extension personnel will then work with the
representatives of the preliminary WUG interest groupings to help them determine the final
delineation of WUGs, WSCs, and WUAs and the most appropriate service levels for each
of them financily, organizationally, and technically. A mix of technologies is likely,
where spring catchmes, augured or dug wells, and boreholes fitted with handpumps will
be more common in low-income peripheral areas, and piped schemes will be more common
in the higher-income core area where commercial activities are centered. This process
eventually results in a FacUlties and Management Plan for each system that includes the
design, management and financing awrangements proposed for each WSC or WUA. If a
plan meets constuction grant guidelines, a Faciles and Management Contract will be
prepared. It wUl then be signed by designated representatives of the WSC/WIJA, the
DES, and DWD. Following this, the final design and detailed cost estimates will be
prepared and, when the required community cash contribution has been made, tender
documents will be prepared. It is important to note that the progress of each of the
groupings will vary, such that whilst details of a WUA piped scheme are being completed,
construction may have commenced or even been completed for one or several single source
developments for WUGs/WSCs.
*  Constrcon Phase -  The construction phase stas with a call for tenders by DWD.
The lowest evaluated bidder will be awarded the contract subject to no objection by the
fincing agency.
O  Operaons and Maintenance Phase -  The O&M phase follows the commissioning of the
constructed works and hand over to the communities. Follow up management and O&M
training wih assistance in resolving problems that arise will be provided over a defined
period.
2WThLvJwy 13,I994r*vs4Uk VWf M,e Po~l~d GedelUee, Lr based rapo0 bVapaum dlucgs.woa dring dhe
negodadLea begivem die Mialsy of Nanut Resourcs ad die WwBorl Em, aid absequw4foiow up dalogue. Iin
tvlaUn so Ate Sam Touw Ware aid SaadmpflsadasAoeg



*oo
As.                                  B        0  00
Z1    _
P2
2                             U,
Iv
* II
I1
*
d          I-a              U,.
a a.                     ji   
!1   llhi'i                 38  *1             .
I
IiI                                                     *6
-            0
I                           111f5  8.aarjj   'II
'1IiI                                         8



Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
MOB5IZATOION
7.           Mm mobilization phase has two mdin objectves: to help communities to asses their
needs and preferences In the sphere of water and sanitaton, while raising their awarees  of the
potenti impact of Improved waer supply and sanWion ficilties on their health; and to increase their
capacy to acdieve this by mobilizig ffthose most concerned with the Improvemes (particularly
women) and stenghing the ommunty's orgazational capacity for sef-help acdives. This
motivation and capacity enhancement Is nesded to enable fIl and effective community parcipation in
planning the facilites and the related decision making. The latter is regarded as a precondition for the
sense of ownersh  and frther motvation for long-term operation, mintenane, aL I replaceent
(OMR), and the capacity to maintn their faclities.
8.           Local Ewlon Skiff-  At the beging of the Mobilization Phase the local
autrities would appoint appropriat extension staffto focus on the Project and establish an office in
the towa. ITe extension sff will consist of several hat and community development officials
assigned by their ministries, a community development specialist and an engineer employed by the
eonsulta0t~ and r ees of partlcipctIg NGOs, and should include both men and women.
Duringithe mobfliation pWod the main activity of the ension staff wil be to assist local RC
members to Identlif houeoi  dta wan to join together to form WUGs. They will subsequently
itiate information dissemination, hygiene educaion, women's mobilization and organitional
developmet activities with the participating WUGs. Where  apropriate, interestd parties could be
ta,n to other twns where community based wn;nagement is already practiced so as to gain fis hand
Infomationm on the experiee elsewhere.
9.           Iden4oocaon of WVaU;s -  Many commuies are not homogeneous, and may
contain ethnic or settler minoriies residing in a dsinet area who frequently have little influence In
community affairs. Subgroups within the towns may efist for various other soci and geographical
reasons. It wi be fte task of the RCs with the assistance of the extension staff to idenatfy such
dffeences as well as key community leaders, so that WUGs cn be successfully delimited from the
$  ,.
10.          Water and Saaton CommWee (SC) and  e Water User Assodato (WUA) -
ibe commlun , wit guidance frm their RCs and the extension staff, will assiSt WUGs in forming
WSCs. When there is a piped system, WSCs will get associated to form a WUA for the entire piped
system. A WSC or WUA could be a new organization, or an exiting organiatin or sub-commitee
thereof if tis suis the loca conditions and is more effctive in the community. The WSCs/WUA
w;ll provide an insthtionl basis for the beneficiaries to assume owneship of their water and
ewerage facilities id to sign    _  related to their opation and mai_tnance.
11.          Wome wil be mobilized thwough group acties specifically targeted at them, and
promotig heir particiation In community meeting by taking account of such factors as holding them
at times when they are not fully occupied in the daily round of chores. They will be encouraged and
upported to take an acdve role in the WSCs and WUA. bt is the goal that at least half the members of
the WSCs/WUA should be women.
12.          Hygene Edon an Sanadon POAn  -  Hygiene education at this stage will
focus on the creation of demand for improved water supply and sanitation by esl hing the liaps
Jaumy 13y 1994



Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
between water, sanitation and health. Much of thbis will be done in small groups, including WSCs and
women's groups, where peopw3 can discuss health and hygiene problems and identify sources and
transmission routes for fecal contmination in their own enviromnent. Discussior3 will also be held
regarding hygiene improvements that could be made to existing water points and ways of reducing
contamination during collection, transport and use at home.
13.          Construcion Grant Appiation -  Printed material used in the publicity campaign
will include a simple form for a comnmnity Constulon Granm Aplpiaon which will be submitted
by WSCs to the extension staff and will set out the basis on which the Program operates, including the
responsibilities of the WSC and the Government. It will contain basic data such as location/boundaries
of the service area of the WUG, its approximate population, existing water supply and sanitation
arrangements, composition of the WUG, and previous community development activities.
14.          Coennitent Fee -  The community will have to show its commitmaent at this stage
by collecting a commitment fee, the suggested level of which will be equal to the cash contribution
needed for a hand dug well (generally the cheapest available option). This commitment fee will need
to be kept in safekeeping in a separate account, preferably with interest, until planning is completed
and construction is under way. The account should be interest bearing and have with at least two
signatories which could be chosen from among the District Executive Secretary, the local manager of
the consulting firm, a DWD official, or a community leader.
15.          Verficaton and Assessment Of APPlcns -  To proceed to the planning and
design phase the extension staff will need to confirm the accuracy of the infornmation furnished in the
Constr m hdon Grant Application, adding to it as necessary, and the collection of the requisite
community cummitment fee. In addition, an assessment will be made by the extension staff of the
interest and commitment of each WVUG to involve itself fully in the planning process, and the ability of
its WSC members to pay for the chosen technology and to carry out their other commitments. Where
necessary, additional discussions and strengthening of the WSCs may be required. The as.'essment
team's findings will be sent to the district administration (District Executive Secretary) for review and
endorsement, and then to DWD.
PARTICIPATORY PLANNING AND DESIGN PHAE
16.          Problkm Ident(fication -  Once a certain level of mobilization has taken place and
Construction Grat Applications accepted by the district adminstration and DWD, the extension staff
will lead the WSC through a self-assessment exercise. If a project is to be sustainable in the long
term, it has to address the real needs of the community. Conversely, the process of identifying these
needs can be a powerful tool in raising awareness and providing motivation. For both these reasons,
the extension staff will actively involve the WSCs in identifying and prioritizing their own problems
and recognizing the importance of improved water supply and sanitation facilities.
17.          This might typicaly start with a WSC meeting to discuss the exercise and its
objectives, after which the WSC wiU assist other inerest groups (including a group of women) to
conduct their own assessments. The results will be collected and discussed by the WSC and the
extension staff prior to a second meeting, possibly of the entire WUG, in which the assessments and
the different perspectives of the various sub-groups will be reviewed. This meeting will also seek
agreement on whether water supply and/or sanitation are a high priority, and if not, the whole process
Jamay 13, 1994



Anna 4
Page 4 of 8
can still be halted at this point. If It is, an area map and a comprehensive water supply and sanitation
inventory of the community will be made by the technical extension staff, aisted by the WSC, for use
during the planning stage. At this time WSCs wil be encouraged to organize self-help acwon to
impove the present wate points or make other appropiate mpovements as a way of demonstrating
their commitment, and building up community capacity to work together.
18.          Dsws*ai  of Opins -  As the fist stage in the participatory planning process, a
commuzuity meeting, led by the technical extension staff, will presen possible water sources, technical
options and service levels, based on their earlier technology options survey. These will be discussed
in the light of their potential costs ant; nlntenance requiremes. The commnty wil give the
technician a mari4e to frther investigate selected opdons.
19.          Concept   Dasigns -  The extension staff will then prepare conceptual designw and
cost esMates - inluding the capital contribution to be made by the WUW and the projected recurent
costs - of the option or optt f- that the WSC would lie to considerin more depth. At this stage the
designs will be limited to sim.ple sketches and approximate costs, but will need to be presented in a
suale format for WSCs and possibly larger groups to understand.
20.          Detennrnation of Chosen Servke evel -  The conceptual designs and cost estimates
wil the be presented to the WSC for its consideration. A follow-up meeting win then be held with
the WSC after the WSC has discussed the options with their respective WUG.
21.          Formaton of the WZA -  In sitations where WUGs determine that they want to
obtain a piped watw supply they will be advised about other WUGs in the town that are also interested
in this option and given more detailed information about the responsibilities of a WUA and the process
of establishing one. Each WUG will need to appoint one or two of its members to serve on the WUA.
hereafter, planning discussions by the extension staff wil primarily be held with the WUA, although
WSC and WUG meetings coud also be held if individual communities wish more direct informauon
from the extension staff.
22.          Hygiene Edataon anad Saniation Promotion -  It will be necessay to continue
emphasizing the hygiene education messages, w, ich typically take a considerable time for the
cmunity to intenlize. Inegrating these discussions with project planning will also help to create
the desired lhinage between health and improved water supply and sanitation. The WSCs should also
be further strengthened in management and technical and financial skills. The WSCs and the WUA
will also be expected, with the support of the extesion staff, to gradually assume a more active role in
maging the planning process, arang   and chairing meetings, and keeping records.
23.          PhysA  Suveys -  The extension staff will then arrange for the required hydrologic,
hydro-geologic and land suveys to estimate safe yields fom surface sources and springs, to assess the
potealW for dug wells or boreholes and their possible locations, and to get approximate distances and
elevations where piped systems are being considered. For dug wells test holes will be made. If a
borehole source is being considered, arrgements win be made by the consultant for a geophysical
survey. Where sprngs or surface water sources are being considered for piped systems, flow
measurements will also be started at this time, and contiue throughout at least one full dry season.
hls workcm be given to the WSC to carry out, with basic triing from the extension staff.
JanuscY 13, 1994



Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
24.          Pldnty Des=ns -  Once the water resources mem    has been made,
prdimay designs and better cost estimtes wUil be prepared by the eion  staff, or, in te case of
p1ped systems, by a more senor engineer employed by the consultat Te WSC or WUA wiI then
revlew tis at a meetig with the extension staf and select an option, its Chosen Service Levd, for
preliminaHmy ei design. At this stage, the ommunity wfll discuss in detai its futre
oblgatons to conucion (cash and in-kind contributis) and define aragements for the
_nanagement and fwancing of the completed system. All water points, public standpipes and house
connections shou?i be marked clearly and unambiguously to ensure the accuraq of the fal desip and
to avoid future coflicts with the contractor. At this stage land requikement should be identified and
marked on the ground and land rights established for the WSC or WUA, as apprprate.
25.          Faadas and Management Plan -  A Faciities and Management Plan
wi  be prepared, which specifies the facilities to be constructed as given in the preliminauy designs and
te commnity's arrangements for financing and managng them. This plan Is like a microvroject
document and will contain at least the following sections:
nhe techal sedion will include a layout plan of the community, showing the locaton of
roads, housing cluster, streams, existing and proposed wat sources and outlets, and
insftiutions such as schools, hospitals, and military bTarcs. Proposed water sources will
be described in detail and wil include a summary of hydrologic, geophysical and test hole
investigations including expected yields, water table depth and quality in the wet and dry
sons, Te           - new fcility w  be 4en-bed a  shown on the plan. Tbe service
populton and expected water consumption for household, insitional, and industria uses
wi  be estimated.
•  'Te olganionalU seaion wil describe proposed arrangements for managing the system
and opeating and maintaing it. Background information (dates, costs, fiuding sources,
and seUss) about previous commuity development activities, together wth names,
educational, and data concemrng on the management expeaienc of the proposed members
of the WSCs and the WUA should also be included. In the case of piped systems, WUA
wi be required to have signed service agreements with private companies for -ormal
operations and ma_ienace and with equipment suppliers for the mainteance of pumping
equpmen will also be described. These should be described in the Facilities and
Maagemet Plan and should be signed befbre the constuction contract is let.
e  TheJlanda sedtiot will describe the proposed financing arrangements for the system
inludig a breakdown of household, institonal and industri contributions towards
capital costs and OMR costs. The community contribution in the form of cash or in kind
must be specified and the method of revene collection, tariff structure and accou_n
ysm should be described.
o  The soce.odm k sedion wil include more detsaed information on demogrsphics,
community organizatons, knowledge, attudes and practies on water and saniation, and
an economic profile of the communty. Facilities and Management Plans will be agreed
upon at a final meeting with the extension staff, the WSCs or WUA where the commiee
and all others present will indicate their agreement. Minor   pinions wil also be noted.
Jnuay 13. 1994



Annsex 4
Page 6 of 8
26.          Appd  of Fady mad Managm t Pima -  Facilities and managem  plans will
first be sen to the district d rinbn for review and pprval and the to DWD. DWD will neod
to confirm the accuracy of tie knfioation funihd  in the Faclities and Management Plan, detmine
If the proposed technical and financial plans are consiste  with Co,muc*on GrawG uddew, and
verf th  communiy nmembers are fmiliar with, support and a  prepared to pay the recurre  costs.
27.           *al Ds4gs -  The Consulta  wll then prepare the fial desg and cost
estimae and pese  it to WSC or WUA meeting for final ageemen on the community's contibution
to the capital costs. The commniy may now need to top up its deposk to the amont required
accotding to the tecbnlogy chosenL 'Me cash will then be transferred to a joint signatory account for
eventual paymen on compledon of the work or inslataon of specific work. When ths is completed,
contact doments will be prepared.
CONStRUCTIONPHAS
28.            a&udkea C.awcsfor piped sdhega w1ll follow the usual pocedurn for
tendeing. The consultant will prepare tender documents based on his final designs and will packe
work in consultation with DWD heaqu s. Conactors will be Instructed to inform communites
well in advance of the poposed construcdon schedue, so as to llow them to prewe their labor and
local material inputs. ITe water engineing tehician of the extension staff, with the assistance of an
engineer employed by the consutia and the advcc of the commuity, will monio progress and the
quaity of consLtro
29.          Co_todna of Sfg Cat               and Dag Wes -  I is anticipated that civi
works reled to spring protcton, wel auguring and diggin wil be implemend by small local
cntr8aors. Those who satisfy a stated minimm level of technical, manager  and financiaD
capabiliies wUl be Siven a brieftang, followed by an inial conta  as part of the taining. Upon
satisfacoy compledon of the taiing and he tri oontract, the contractor will be pre-uified to
comete for work on the basis of local compeit  bidding, as specifie under OCapter M, Section F.
In-kdnd community contom  for self-help labor wil be encouraged but the contor should be
protectd as descied in Para. 17 of the Polkces and Gudelne (Anex 3). Dug well contracu  wil
be paid on the basis of a mobilizaton co per wel plus an amount per meter depending on the depth
of the excavation and pentao   below the wate able.
30.          Borolda -  Borehole yields can only be assesed with any certainty after the wells
have been drilled and developed. There i the risk that the acta yield will be insufficient for a piped
system or even a hand pump, so re-planning of the whole war  supply system may prove necessay.
In such cases DWD will pay for any new planning and design work required. For all boreboles. the
cm nty wil rceive a guarane from DIWD tat, in the even of substntia failure of the well
within 10 years due to cimstan   beyond the communiy's control, the well wll be rehabilitated at
Govement expense.
0110IIN AND h9VTU
31.          H      bw and CeIfia -  On completion of the works, system desig and
perrmance wil be checkd. If both meet specifcations, a final inpection and handover ceremony,
k17y 13, 1994



Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
atended by repe   ive of WSC, WUA, DWD, local  tsion staff, and the local ovanmet will
take place, at which a Ceicate of Satisfatory Completion will be signed.
32.          Hygene       a   and      a    Pwomoeii  -  'Me ension staff will contne to
provide support to the cmmunity during the OMR phase. The focus of hygiene education wll shift
from water-sitionealeth linkages to mesqes targee at achieving hges in habits aimed at
maimizing the heat benefis of tho Inproved f&ciities to tie community. M  emphasis will thus be
on pesonal byglene and hepwtection of waterfom pollution at the source up to the point when it is
consumed.
33.          OMJR  1fmai  -  Strengtning of the WSCs and the WUA will ontinue, again
wih practically-oriented subject matter such as book-keeping and financial managemen  Th
caretakers chosen by the community durig the project planning phase will be tined by the ex ion
staff includig exchange visi to communites already operating similia rSytem, if possible.
34.          MOeaoka and Sappoet -  The D is  Water Officer of DWD will make occasional
visits to monitor the WSCs and WUA, the water system, and related activti. Communities wil be
execed to Identify with the advice of their extesion staff and DWD persel the extrnal resources
they requie and acoess them trugh th private sector. Zond meetin  of WSCs to discuss their
water supply sysms and other socor activies wil be encouraged.
U=nsy 13, 194



Anna 4                     Town Implementation Process
Page 8 of 8      PHASE                IMPLEMENTATION STEPS
|Pnorfit listing of towns|
8     | ~~Financing secured & towns gBrouped |
Meetings with dstuclts
Meetings wlth towns
Extension staff organized
Town office opened
Preliminary tech option & pop survey
Meetings and discussions at RC levels
WUGs identified
WSCs formed
Committment fee coUec ted
Construction Gront Application submitted
ii lIngnProblem Idenfiflcaton
Wterh o  Mlt oplnis discussed co th WSCas
oncepturl designs & cost estimntes
Chosen service level conflrmed by WSCs/U        I
FaciItiWUAs for piped systems for medW|A
coS      Hyt1rologlic. hydrogeologkc & mopplng surveys
Wailingness to-pay confsrmvioen (MbyW
FWciter outets & Individual connections located
FnPrelmincry designs ond costings re
mSemnc level cand costs confirmed by WSCsWUAse
FcaClties & Mo plns prepaored for  ISCsNUAs
Z is~~Fcilities 8 Mg;t plans reviewed by DW4Dt 
Faciitites & Mgat Contracts sigpned bny WSCs. DES, DVWD3
Rncl designs ond castings Prepareds
Community caPltol cost contribautlon deposited 
Conflrmction Order
Awcrd of Contract
Tender documents prepared
Cao for tender
Bid evaluation
Construction controcts aworded by DWD
O&M contrect awarded by WUAs
C-)
System contructed
InMia WSC/WUA O&M training
CommIssioning and handover ofsystem
Folow-up management and O&M training
Januay 13, 1994



Ann S
Page I of 6
CHOICE OF l[OLOGY
for the
RUmAL ToWNS WATER AND SANITATION PRoGRAM
of the Dretorate of Water Development, Mistry of Natural Resourees
IfTRODUCTION
1,           As Uganda is rich in its natural water resources, various sources can be exploied by
communities including surface water, groundwater and rainwater. But however rich in water resources
these communities may be, gafe watr from protected sources and distribution sysm  is scarce and
most people Aust draw water from unprotected surface sources such as swamps, lakes and rivers. Over
the past 20 years safe water coverage has decreased as many of the piped systems, built in the fie
and sixties, have completely or pary fallen into disrepair. More receny, protected sprigs and
boreholes equipped with handpumps have been employed, particularly in rural areas. Solar, wind, and
animal powered pumps are hardly used in Uganda for water pumping.
2.           The towns covered under the proposed Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project are
small, typically having between 10,000 and 20,000 residents and low vopuation denies cnmnarr  'o
large towns Jinja with about 60,000 people. A small town typically consists of a commercial center
comprising 10-15% of the total town area where about 30% of the populaton reside and where
population densities are about 100 persons per hectare. In the outskirts, popuation densities of these
towns drop to 10-20 persons per hectare. Hence many town resideats live under conditions very
similar to those found in the sunrounding rural areas. As a result of the variable population density and
affluence, mixed tehologies would be offered in the Project, so that everyone would have the
opprtuniy of obtaining a rrotected water supply that they can afford.
3.           Groundwater has a number of advantages over surface water for the provision of water
supply and should be used as the source of supply whenever possible: it is available within the
community, is more reliable throughout the year and in periods of drought, and generally does not
require treatment. Springs and hand dug wells are preferred sources of water because they are
relatively inexpensive and provide a good basic service. Machine drilled boreholes are more epsive
and should be used only if springs or hand dug wells are not suitable or when a more conveniently
located higher level of service is desired. Gravity-fed piped systems provide a relatively cheap high-
level service when such a source is available. In all cases care must be taken that the soure proves a
yea round supply of water. Where required, water treatmt for snall and medim sized commuities
should be based on slow sand filtration preceded by roughOg filters and should make use of hydraulic
rather than electro-mechanical processes. Infiltation galleries can provide even better and more
reliable treatment at lower costs and should be used whenever technically feasible.
4.           Different priced wate supply options for both point sources and piped systems and
infrmation matrials, easily undrstod by community groups, showing typical designs and costs
(capital and recurent) should be available. For groundwater that needs lifting to the surfce, Ihey
include dug wells with and without handpumps, boreholes with either direct-action or high-lift
handpumps, and small piped systems utilizing either grundwate or uwface water wih approprae
pumping and treatment units. Pumping options would include electric submersible pumps powed by
the delctric grid, photo voltaic cells or diesel genering units. Lower cost s   s-



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
powered centrifugal pumps with locally made sheet metal storage tanks would also be an option.
Generally, hand dug wells would be the least cost option, regardless of the community size. Where
hand dug wells are not feasible due to hydrogeological constraints or a community wants a piped
system, the least cost technology would depend on the population size, well yield, and proximity of the
water wells to the national electric grid. The following chart shows the typical ranking of systems in
terms of capital cost.
CAPrrAL COSM FOR WATER StYOM M    RONDWATER1
Community Population
Type of System            < 500     500-1000    1000-2000    > 2000
Had Dug Weli2               1           1           1          1
Boreole + Handpum           2           3          5           5
Borehole + Grid4            3          21          2           2
Borehole + Solar            4           4          3           4
Borehole + Diesel           5           5          4           3
NoXs: 1. One denotes the least cot option and five the highest.
2. Hand dug wells have capacity to serve up to 200 people.
3. Te dynaic pumping level is less than 45 mets.
4. The water wells ari close proximity to the electric rid.
5. A single well has sufficieat capacity to serve co_mmity.
5.       It is important that commuities are able to choose the technology that will give them the
highest service klvel h  ty want, can 4fford, and can mainain - where service level is determined
by a mimber of factors, including the quantity and quality of the water, the amount of time needed to
collect water, and the reliability of the system. In the Project the communities will be able to choose
the type of system that they want, with their choice guided by their felt need for safe water and the
level of service offered by the various alternatives in relation to the anticipated costs of operations and
maintenance and the required capital contributions. It is expected that households in lower density
areas will generally opt for lower cost improved springs and dug wells, and that those living in the
commercial areas will prefer piped systems.
6.        Borehole drilling in Uganda dates back to the early part of this cenry. Nonetheless,
groundwater has become widely used only in recent years, as a rest of the ongoing rural water
supply projects. During this period the Directorate of Water Development has gained considerable
drilling experience. Despite their high cost and the potential for dug wells, boreholes have become the
most oommon methd of groundwater exploitation.
7.        Piped systems, mostly supplied from surface water sources, require treatment and
associated mechanized equipment and chemicals and are dependent on the intermittent electric service
provided by UEB. As a result their performance is not very good, particularly in small towns. Where
surface supplies and treatment are required, good results, even without chemicals, are being achieved
with roughing filters and slow sand filtraion - such that the combination is generaUly considered to be
the technology of choice for small systems.
8.        Borehole and well siting techniques have improved substantially over the past years. Given
the substantial cost savings that can be achieved through the use of low cost technologies, adequate
attention shall be given to siting procedures. In this respect the hydrogeological teams will use siting



Ane 5
Page 3 Qf 6
techniques varying from the hand auguing of test holes where dug well potenial is high to
geophysical methods for boreholes, particarly for piped supplies. Where hydrogeologic conditions
are unfavorable, geophysical methods should be used both for dug wells and boreholes.
DESCRIMPION OF WATER TECOLGIES
9.        Xdngg: Where the specific local hydrogeological conditions allow, protected springS can
be the lowest cost and most reliable option, and, although they may not be located as coneniently as
wells or piped systems, are very popular. In Uganda spring protection could play a more important
role hn they do now as only 35% of the 13,000 registered springs have so far been protected.
10.      A prected spring typically comprises:
*     a protected intke from a natwal spring: the exisfing spring is cleaned, a layer of
gravel is pl& ed in conjunction with a collector pipe for collection purposes over all
spring eyes, a layer of clay covers the spring against contamination together with
upstream drainage works; in some instances a spring box is constucted;
o     a platform with the water outlet(s), occasionally with a short transmission main ta
allows better access by the consumers; depending on the yield and the demand one or
more outlet pipes can be provided; where yields are low, stre can be provided; and
*     related site works consist of catte fences, access steps to the spring, spring retinig
walls and the required drainage works both upstream and dowstream of the spring.
CAAL AND R1CRR ENT CO=1 OF MRaD_          SM - I =
Cita Coss                                         2,280,000
Annual Recurrent Costs                              23,000
IC eonitarU level in US8 per 20 liters                0Q3
11.        F S  Wels: If equipped with bucket and rope as lifting device, this tecbwlogy
offr the lowest investment per capita aRer sing catchment, and also the lowest recur  cosL If
constucte with a collar and raised platorm that is pouted, an open dug well provides comiderably
beWer quality water m  is provided by uotcted surface sources. Nf fitted with a reliable and easily
mantainable dired acton handpump, i.e. one without a lever, the danger of contaminatig the well
woud be reduced. t is important tha dug weLls be constructed two tO tree meers below the waer
table to ensure good yields and a year round supply. With static water levels ranging from 1-30 meters
below gromund level (the majority less than 15 meters) and the considerable depti of unconsolidated
(440m) found in most places in Uganda, we1l digging andior auguring are tenologies
at could provide a service to many communities and that would considerably reduce the cost of water
supplies in rural and low-density urban fringe areas.
o     Hand dug wels are constructed in weathered rock, overurden or sedimentary
formations The wel is lined down to the aquifer with in situ cast concrete. Ihe
penetraon in the water bering zone is done with caisson rns. This allows further
deening of the wel in case the water table fills. Constuction is done with
CommunitY paticipion in digg   down to the water table.



An=M 5
Page 4 of 6
12.      HandDUS: Handpumps provide a basic service level. These have the advantage over
springs in that they can often be located closer to consumers. Handpumps are relatively simple and
inexesive and relatively easy to mainain. However simple, the requirement for spare parts can be
problematic and at times relatively expensive components must be replaced. This tehology typically
comprises:
o     A well (hand dug or hand augured), or a borehole; the choice of whether to use hand
dug wells, augured wells or boreholes to abstract groundwater is determined by
hydrogeological, technical and economic considerations; the choice is made by the
consumer group in consultation with a hydrogeologist. For design depths up to 15-20
meters augured and hand dug wells are good options, for deeper design depths
boreholes usually are the preferred option.
e     In view of DWD's policy of standardization on U2 or U3 handpumps with corrosion
resistant stainless steel rising mains and rods are required. Ile concrete pladtorm, with
the spout of the handpump placed near the center, provides a clean working area and
protects against groundwater comin. For pumping lifts of less than 15 meters a
direct action pump is a corrosion free, easily repairable opion ta should be
considered.
o     Related site works consist of fencing to keep animsal away, drainage works such as a
drainage channel and soak away pit. Cattle troughs and washing facilities are optional.
13.      Pp   ms: Small piped systems can provide a higher level of service than the point
sources, wbere the pumps and appurten  equipment can be maitned and the energy supply (electric
or diesel) is dependable. Typically these comprise of a waw source with or without a pump house, a
pump and a reservoir, disbution mains and public standposts. Individual house connections will be
encouMed in the Rl zogram so that more revemne can be obtained from the more affluent people
:in the commmnty.
14.      Ihe design capacity for piped system will be 20 litters per capita per day based on a
town's current population. Additional production and distribution capacity for the following purposes
wil be financed under normal cost sharing arrangements, if communities so choose:
o hIcreasing population including 10 years for source works and 15 years for water mains,
up to the town's average annual growth rate,
o Twenty percent unaccounted-for-water,
o Twenty percent fbr fwture household and insutional connections,
o Exstig household and instutional connections:
- House connections         100 litterslcapita/day
- Yard Taps                  40 lcd
- Scbools (day)               5 lcd
- Schools (boarding)         50 lcd
- Prisons                    SO led
- Hospitals                 200 litters,'bed/day
* Pealkng fctor for pipes of 1.5 based on 10 hours per day pumping, and
* Storage capacity of 1/2 day's design demand.



Anna 5
Page 5 of 6
TABLE 5.1
HANDPINNs
CAPITAL, RECUMRENT COSn AND TARIF LEVELS IN USH
Hand Dug Well wit  Hand Augured Well    Borehole with
Handpump         wib Handpump         Handpump
Capital cost:
Hand Dug Well               10,370,000
Hand Augured Well                               5,570,000
Borehole                                                           12,770,000
Handpump with                1,440,000           1,440,000          3,720,000
Rising Main
Reservoir                      740,000            740,000            740.000
Total Capital Costs         11,810,000          7,010,000          16,490,000
AnnualReurrni
Staffing                       225,000            225,000            225,000
Maintenance                    175,700            127,700            313,700
Total Amnual
Recurrent Costs                382,70)            352,700            538,700
Corresponding Tariff
Level per 20 Liters                4.4                3.9                5.9
15.      The following restrictions apply:
o     The cost of water deliveries above those provided for in para 14, inchlding
commercial and industri uses, and the cost of connecting households and institutions
to the distribution system will be paid in ful by individual beneficiaries.
o     All government institutions will pay their share of the capital and recurrent costs.
Prisons, military instlations and other large government institutions, each one of
which consumes more than 10 percent of the design capacity of a municipal system,
will be provided separate facilities under normal cost shaing arrangements that they
will manage themselves.
o     Sale of any system or components financed with Government fiunds is pi hibited.
16.      Larger Piped Supplies are expected to serve the commercial core areas and will be custom
designed. Cost figures for complete systems vary considerably with the local conditions. Based on
recent tenders for such systems unit cots for larger piped systems are in the range of 90,000 to 120,000
USh (IJS$75-100) per capita.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
DESCRIPTION OF SANITATION TECHNOLOGY
17.      The demand for latrines has in the past been a problem, not so much because of disinterest,
but because of their high cost and a lack of information about them; it is therefore important that a
range of different cost designs for sanitation be promoted through the rural water supply and
sanitation program both for household and public use. Technologies would include the single pit VIP
latrine, the SanPi'.t latrine with ani without a vent pipe, and in some cases the twin-pit VIP late.
Multiple-pit VIP latrines (prvatey operated) would be used at health centers, markets and other public
places. Standard designs and technical specifications will be prepared for each including drawings,
bills of quantities, construction and quality contol procedures, and sample bidding documents and
contracts.
TABLE 5.2
SMALL PIPED SYSTEMS
CAPITAL AND RECURRENT CO MND TARIFf LEVELS IN USKI
Dug Well   Augured Well Borehole with   With Gravity
_ _________       _i P_ up             with Pump    Handpump         SuPPIY
coital Cost
Intake Spring                                                          2.280,000
Gravity Main                                                          20,160,000
Platform Site Works                                                      540,000
Hand Dug Well
Hand Aug. Well               9,720,000
Borehole                                  4,920,000
Pumping Main1                                          12,120,000
Diese Pump                  20,160,000    20,160,000    20,160,000
Pump House                   7,920,000    7,920,000     7,920,000
Reservoir                    4,800,000    4,80,000      4,800,000
Platform, etc.               1,300,000     1,300,000    1,300,000
1,210,000    1,210,000    1,210,000
Total Capital Cost           _           40,310        4751000        22,980,000
Rer:en ConX 
Staffing                       585,000      585,000      585,000         585,000
Maintenance                    733,600      685,600      757,600         179,400
Power                           74,000       74,000       74,000
Replacement Fund               792,000        720        792,000
Total Recurrent Anna Costs   2,184600     2,136.600     2.208,000
Tarifflevel in USh/201             24            23           24          7 USh1
1 A      tht 250 pers us the system and th grvity am extends for 500 m.



Annex 6
Page 1 of S
SANITATION AND HYGIENE EDUCATION
for the
RURAL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROGRAM
of the Directorate of Water Development, Minstry of Natural Resources
BACKGROUND
1.           A recent Program Preparation Report' of the Directorate of Water Development
(DWD) indicates that sanitation2 coverage in the 60 towns which currently form the priority area for
the Government Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program (RTWSP) is about 60-70%. These
figures were based on a fairly rapid reconnaissance, and more exact figures would be gathered during
project implementation. Mlost of the sanitation coverage consists of traditional latrines which, while
counted as coverage, offer little more than privacy as the hygiene conditions are very poor in most. A
very small percentage of the population in the 60 towns is served by septic tanks (< 5%) and far
fewer by the six existing waterborne collection and treatment systems. Of these six, only Njeru is
operating well (under the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC)) and the Gulu system as
it has only recently been rehabilitated. The other four systems are in poor condition with little or no
treatment. The remaining 40% of the population counted as not served rely on extremely unhygienic
communal facilities or defecate wherever they might find some privacy.
2.           The Report only confirms what has been generally accepted globally in the sub-sector -
that the demand for improved urban sanitation is less than that for water supply. To increase people's
awareness of the public health effects of improper excreta disposal, thereby raising the demand for
imprc;ved services and facilities, a combination of software extension services and improvements in the
method; of delivery of the chosen technologies needs to be better provided. It is well known that
water smply interventions without improvements in sanitation conditions and a complementary
program of byg    education have very little effect in improving the target communites' overall
health. Water supply interventions are a basic prerequisite for the effectiveness of all other
interventions to improve community health. Indeed, investmens in water supply and proper operation
and maintenance of these facilities can lead to some reductions in waterborne diseases, however, in the
absence of hygiene education and improved excreta disposal sevices the fecal-oral disease transmission
routes would continue to persist and circumvent any significant health benefits which should be
realized from the improvements in water supply.
SANTATION
3.           Technology Choice -  The most common forms of household sanitation facilities
found in Uganda are:
o     traditional pit latrines,
e     the more recently Introduced VIP latrines,
1 'Small Townu Waer and Sanito Prqjet - Progrm Pfpati, Sembe I9 COWJoamL
2 S,a,m is defined in Xth coazz of dhs dsusso onlry as MMreW .



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
o     the more recenty introduced SanPlat  itation  alform hygienic latrine slab) for
upgrading traditional latines,
v     septic tans  wih soakage pits or trenches, and
°     centralized collection and treatmene systems.
While these technologies are suitable for households, public toilets and public latrines also serve some
of the larger urban areas where congested public mark4s or long-distance transport depots require wuch
facilities for public health considerations. Pour flush lawines, while not common in Uganda, may be
appropriate for the project towns, demand for which would be tested during project implementaticn,
which most probably would include some pilot actvities.
4.           The selection of a sanitation technology is a household decision (or the user group's if
a wawtborne system is chosen), but should be based on adequate information about the technologies,
including all cost; the user's willingness-to-pay; and the Government's policy on subsidies, all of
which would be studied and presented through the Project. Government policies would have a
significant influence upon the housebold's decision of technology selection in regard to cost sharing of
investm  cost; subsidy levels; management structure for the operation and maintenance of the
facilities; tariff stutures for services such as desludging of latrines and septic tanks cr operating and
maintainig the communal portion of a commuity collection and treatment system
5.           Ihe supply of SanPlat slabs to upgrade traditienal latrines or construct new hygienic
latrines (improved traditional) and slabs for ventilated improved pit latrines (VIPs) would be subsidized
by the Goverment through project fimding. For the septic tank option very little Govenment
involvement would be necesary outside of the software and technical guidance support that would
come from the Mbnisty of Health (MOH) and quality control support from DWD. Those responsible
for project management in DWD would monitor the pre-qualification process of contractors at district
level; tender for latrine and SanPlat slabs production at district or town level; and identily local
commerci traders in te towns who would market the slabs. A model latrine for demonstation
purposes would be consatcted in each town to allow interested buyers the opportunity to sse the
quality of the completed package. Training packages for small contors to quicldy acquire the skills
to constuct imved laies and/or produce slabs would be designed and run by qualified specialists.
Initially this might require outside assistance.
6.           The relationship between the slab producer and the retailer requires clear definition
before implementation begi. One option would be for the Project set the price at which the retailer
is to sell the slabs (based upon production costs, subsidy decisions, and tue purchasers willingness-to-
pay) proviig the retaier with a reonable cmmission on the sale. Alternatively, orce the Project
tenders the slabs for production it could then be left to the producer to sell either directly to the
householders or through a retler allowing market forces to dictate the appropriate price.
7.           Apart from the slab production and sale, other material components for the latrine
would be the responsibility of the user. Standard drawing and a constuction manual for latrines
would be a part of both the sale of VIP slabs and SanPat slabs. Operaton and mainntece would be
the responsbility of the householder including the desludgig of the pits. For the constucton of
septic tanks no Government involvemnt is forese  other t   that of a regulatory/inspection element
to ascrtain the quality of design and constuction of the septic tank and, more importantly, the
absorption fields or pits. Prvae sector Iwvolvement in emptying services for septic tanks would be
promoted through the Gov eent purcse and leasing out of two vacuum tankers from project funds.



Anex 6
Page 3 of 5
In the Init  stages of the Project thes arngements wll be deild before procurement of the
vacuum tankems is finalized. Pmperly deied septage disposal sitos (one or two) would be identified
and constructed oomto negative eiro      leffects of  cr         septage disposal. Some
regulatory fiuction of the urba or distrit authorities would be requ    to onsure    the desudging
operations are disposed of In designated places md caSrried out accordig t the specified health
regulations.
8.           Where sewage is the tecbnology of choice, DWD would assist the urban and district
authorities together with the uers in tendeing the contract S well as supervising the constrction of
the system. be opraion and ma ance of the collecton system and treament system would
requie at leas one full-time community paid employee who would be trained by DWD staff or their
consultants. I a town elects the waterborne tecimology it is essental that the technolopy designed and
constructed for collecdon and treatment is operable and maintainable by the community. When there is
a commuiity demand and when considerations such as population density, soil permeability, the risk of
groundwater polludon, and affordability dictate the technology selection o. centralized sewerage
collectkoa and treatment, Governmen subsidies would be requed for the capital investment in the
facilities. In these case tie commuity would be required to share with Govermnent the investment
cost of the systm, th amou  of which woud be demined in the eary sages of projec
Implementation.
9.           Community preference for the waterborne technology alone woul4 not nearily
mandate a Government subidy. If populion densities are low, the soils are accommoding, and the
risk of groundwater pollution is not a factor, the cost of sewerage should be born completely by the
community without Gover   subsidy. Govenmt would not subsidize wateroe reticulated
systems unless a       jsustif4ication exists. Operai  and manance costs for waterborn
reticulated systems in al cases would be the responsibit of the users. Where there are exisig
sewerage faiities, carefl consideraion would be given to whether rehabilitation of the sysem is the
best solution or abandoment of the faclities In favor of on-site soludons. Where an exitng system
is finctioning it would be difficult to justify abandonig the facility, but where it has been out of
service for some nime, other level of service and faciities should be considered. Any investmet of
project funds for sewerage would requre direct approval from the Director, DWD.
10.          Publc laiw would be owned by the urban thority, market association, or
tansport assoclatiot. The Project, based on a justified demand, would rehabilitate or newly construct
public faclities, but maiten  would be conactd out by the owner. The tender subml.ions
would be based. on the contacto  projected costs for operating and maintaining the facilities plus their
anticipated profits and offse by revenue generated by user fees. lhe award of tender would be based
on the highes mnteed payment to he "owner per month. The user fees would be determined by
the owner in consultation with the political leadehip in the community. Contracts for maintenance
would be vetted on a one year basis with clauses permitting the owner to dismiss the contractor if the
services are not deemed satsfco.
11.          JlaWeru -  Sewerage rabilion work would be undertaken in Jinja and Njeru
to upgrade the sewerg network and existng ponds under NWSC implementation Some extensions
to he network would be consetcted s wel a new ponds in  eru. Public latines and toilets would
be rehabilitated and newly conud in cohllron  with Jija Municipa Council and Njetu Town
Council as laW identifid. Household onsite sanitation optiOnS and simplified sewerage systems



Anna 6
Page 4 of 5
would be considered, partiuly In tho housi Ost,   brou   int planning bY JinRa Municipal
Council and NWSC.
HYGIM    EDUCATION
12.          Bnosa staiw tatii of                 on actvites, the hygiene education
elemens of the Project shou  be carefuly designed and coordinated with the water supply and
san on activies. Two workhops would be lauched In all projec towns over the duration of the
Project. MO  peronm   would codinate tee effots with DWD project management. If a suitable
NGO is idetd  to ass  In the hygiene education elemes of the Project they would bo directed by
the MOH In project implementation. Hygien oducadon materis would be produced for the Project
and disemted by the MOH pesomel.
TRAING
13.          DWD was formely responsble for the opertion and mahance of the water
supplies                  ind s e w    in the small towns. With personel retrcmen  in the civil service
and given the logistcal problems of a centraly managed opeation and maintce system, this
mechanism s no longer consided to be an eff:ctive means of service delivery. For all sewerage
systems outid of the NWSC sysms, the utban authorites would be requr  to manag the
maintena_ c of ther fciites. This can be done either though the direct employment of staff from the
user community or teerig for the provsion of thes services. User commuity staff woud be
trained in  ai nprocede of sewr    sysaoe  ,and in-sric  training would be provided
for MOH peone working on the Project. M   taing of small cona         t consuct latrimes
and m=    latrine slas wi also be a part of the Project as wel.
POLCYGUIDLNS
14.          Tho following prnciples would form the basis of implmenting the saniton and
hygiene educsao it ntions of th6 Project and would be verified during the two workshops to be
held on or before November 30, 1995 and November 30, 1998 and the Mid-Term Review of the
Project
a     The inveStlaet cost of all on-site sation interventins would be paid for by the
ouseholder with a narginal Govenmet subsy fo the prvision of approved latrine
slabs.
b.    Tem operation and           costs for all on-sie saion facilities would be the
complte responsibity of the user or user group.
c.    Public latrines would be owned by the urban authority or particular association which
requires such facilities.  he invesme  cost for such filites would be met by the
Proje wih a pecente Ivsmen co contribution from the owner.



Ana 6
PageS Of 5
d.  St opaion and                costs for the public faciie would be offs by uer
fees, which would be reguatd by the owners with monitorg by th district
_at1, 'io. The O&M requirements for public facUiites would be undrtaken by
contracto  on a commecW bass.
e.    Tle prvision of Govenm   subsidies for wawooe collection and 
faciitis can only be justified if a suxog demand by the community exists    a
cobination of other requrements a  met, such as high population d4nit, poor
absoptive capacity of soils, and speci pollution rik. If tew aoption is
selected purely on the basi of communty demand, the community would be requied
to pay the capital cost of the entire system.
£     The distict health officers, community development officers, and possibly NKMs
wold have the task of sensitizing the population In the project area about the health
ffcts of saitation In order to nreae the demand for sanittion, 8 InoMe.



Anna 7
Page 1 of 8
PROJECT DESCIMON AND CO6S
PAIf 'A - SMALL TOwNS
Total Cost,   udg ontingencies:  US$ 19.4 mon
Respoible Agenqc:                DWD
Desciption
7.01         The water supply and sanitation facilities in the following eleven towns would be
rehabilitated, expanded, and in some cases newly contucted, depending on their existng state: Busia,
Kalisizo, Kyotera, Lugazi, Luwero, Lyantonde, Malaba, Ntungaro, Rakai, Rukbgiri, and
Wobulen7i. For water supply the technologies would typically consist of piped water supply system
of varying sizes, ranging from a small distibution network without water treatment to a large piped
network with or without wate treatment; boreholes or wells equipped with harJpumps; and protected
springs. Sanitation improvements would typically consist of the upgrading or construction of pit
latrines of different designs, rehabilitation or construction of septic tanks, and rehabilitation or
construction of sewers and sewage treatment works (see Annex 11).
7.02         Out of the combined design population (year 2001) of the eleven towns of 130,000,
two towns have populations between 1,000 and 5,000; four between 5,000 and 12,000; four between
12,000 and 25,000; and one at 37,000. The ombined Jinja-Njeru design population is 130,000. The
eleven towns were selected by DWD in consultation with tlre districts and in attempting to coordinate
national interests with donor criteria. Water supply and sanitation interventions would be designed and
implemented such as to assist the communities to have access to the basic level of improved water
supply service. Ihe following selecdon crieria were used to arrive at these towns:
a     Variety of current institutunal arwrgements in the communities, i.e. municipalities, town
councils, town boards, and trading centers;
e Wide range of town sizes - design population of less ta 5,000, 5,000-12,000, 12,000-
25,000, and over 25,000 by the year 2001;
*     Variety in ihe likely water and sanhitn technologies and water sources;
*     High lilceliood that the communities are willing to paricipate in planning and constuction and
to sustain the systems through proper operadons and maitnance, including provision for
replacement;
X     The package of towns to be small enough, and geographically concetrated, to allow effective
implemenation and monitoring of this first phase of the Rural Towns Water and Sanitaion
Program;
*     Consideration of the interest of the World Bank funding in the East and the Luwero triangle
complementing their existing agricultura and feeder rods activities; and



Annex 7
Page 2 of8
Exclusion of the Northern towns for this first project package as there is an extensive
reconstruction project (NURP) funded by the World Bak and the Netherlands active in the
water sector currently being implemented.
7.03         Preliminary designs for a mix of technologies in each town were prepared by DWD
with the help of consultants as part of the preparations for the Project. The final mix of technologies
would be determined through the participation of the community and would be based on the given
physical conditions (such as the available water sources, topography, and housing density) and the
users' willingness to pay (see Towm Implememadon Cyke, Para. 2.08 of the main text and Annex 4).
Also included in the scope of work are the design and supervision of the works to be constructed and
the arrangements necessary for the sustainable operation of the schemes once they have been
completed, including training; provision of hygiene education; technical assistance; acquisition of
vehicles, equipment, spare parts, chemicals, and rehabilitaLon of office buildings.
7.04         As described in Para. 1.11 of the main text the water sector legislation is currendy
being reviewed, and recommendations are being considered for significant amendments, including a
provision allowing to empower commumty organizations to operate and maintain their water supply.
In light of the revised sector policies, the method for establishing tariff levels in the communities
would be reviewed periodically to determine the apprpdaness of the tariffs and the progress made in
collecting tariffs in the project towns.
7.05         The scope of work includes the construction of water sWlies, such as boreholes
equipped with handpumps, protected springs, and piped schemes varying in size from very small ones
without water treatment and with a limited distrbution network (e.g. a spring catchment fitted with a
small surface mounted pump that pumps water to a small overhead tank serving 40 or 50 families) to
somewhat larger schemes servng those living in the central parts of towns where housing densities are
higher (about 3,000 or 4,000 families). With respect to sankadon improvements the scope of the work
would provide assistance to households desiring to upgrade their existing traditional latrines with the
promotion of (i) the SanPlat (sanitation platform), a very basic hygienic concrete slab for latrines; (ii)
the ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrine; (ii) the pour-flush latrine (minimal water use facility); and
(iv) rationalization through the urban and district health officers of septic tank and drainage field/pit
design and construction (see Annec 11 for a more detafled description of the sanitation component). In
exceptional cases sewerage schemes would be rehabiliated or newly built, for which a case-by-case
permission would be required from the Director of DWD. To ensure that adequate attention is paid to
sanitation during project implementation, specific targets are set and implementation would be
monitored for the construction of latrines and other sanitation facilities. Three septic tank emptying
sites would be developed ($40,000 per site, sites still to be determined) to promote the safe disposal of
septage, currently no such ficilities exist.
7.06         Through the initiative of municipal or district based health officials, the Project would
promote better hygiene practces, including the proper use of household sanitation facilities; training of
local artsans to construct improwd latklne, and the suppiy of sanitation related construction materials
through local retail outlets. Two hygiene education campaigns would be launched during the project
implementation, one in November 1995 and one in November 1998. In those instances where
household connections for water supply are provided, the disposal of excreta and sullage water would
be planned on a house by house basis jointly by the health officials and the user groups. DWD would
coordinate in the project towns with the municipal or district personnel of the Ministry of Health in



Annex 7
Page 3 of 8
promoting hygiene education activities. The private sector would be involved in the manufacture and
retailing of the appropriate latrine components.
Cost Estimates
7.07         CIvil Works -  As the finalized designs of the water supply systems would not 1 a
completed until a dialogue with the communities has been initiated, standard sizes of piping and
pumping supplies would be procured in advance and stocked by DWD. The digging of trenches and
other labor intensive work for the water distrbion system may be done by the beneficiaries as part of
their capital cost ca itribution. The laying and fitting of pipes would be done mosfly through small
contracts for labor only, with the materls supplied by DWD. Wells and springs development and
sanitation interventions would be contraced out to smaller contractors at the district level.
A.1  Civil Works                      Baseo (osS million)
Foreign        iATat
Source development              2.622        0.757        3.378
Water Distribution               1.331       0.516         1.848
Wells/sprirgs                   2.923        0.489         3.412
On-site sanitation              0.000        0.371        0.371
Sub-Total A.1                   6.876        2.133        9.009
7.08         Equipment and Materal -  The piping and fitngs for water distribution would be
procured by DWD to suit the demand driven approach and the need to avoid procurement delays.
DWD is currently developing the methodology which would be used to estimate equipment and
materias needs, inventory and monitor stock, and the transfer mechanisms to communities/contraors.
Four 4-wd vehicles ($110,000) would be purchased to assist with project administration and two
vacuum tankers ($250,000) would be purchased to assist in removing septage from the project towns.
Currently there is no reliable service available for septic tank emptying. The private sector would be
involved in the arrangements allowing DWD to concentrae on policy and supervision functions. Some
form of lease-purchase arrangement for the operation of the vacuum tankers would be negodated with
private firms, such arrangements recently have been successfuUy undertaken in Kumasi, Ghana
utilizing ODA funding for the vehicles.
A.2   Eqpment and Matws                Base Cost (IJS$ million)
Foreign      Lal           1
Piping, pumps, etc.             1.044        0.000         1.044
Training materias               0.060        0.040        0.100
Vehicles                        0.356        0.000        0.356
Sub-Total A.2                   1.460        0.040         1.500
1     Ba cow an ft nu" p&e of hems or sve Irsve of taes a dutiu



Anm  7
Page 4 of 8
7.09            Consutdng Servs and 7abng -   Also included are funds for DWD to engage
consulas (se Town Implementadon Cyde, Anna 4); hire one technical assistance person for 24
staff-months to assist DIWD with implementation management; and assist in preparing another Program
financing package for marketimg to other extenl assistance agencies. The consultants engged to
assist DWD witi implementation would be retained inkily under a three year contract allowing for
two separate selection processes over the life of the Project. Ihese coss are  ummarized below.
7.10           As the demand driven commdnq  based approach to serving these tons  with water
supply and sanitation infastructure involves a large number of persons fom differ   local and
national organizations, trainig would be provided with the following cost estimates. More detailed
training ;ifomation and costs are detailed in Anne 9, Instional Strengthening of DWD.
DETAILED BAS COST EIATES  FOR TINIG
No. of   No. of  Pat&.I    TOl   COsDa              Cost        C        TOTAL
E3m       Ds wodop    Prt.             Prax.       I         SrWSP   '  com
NatL LUnch             1        2       200      200         $200                $80,000    $80,000
Team Bldg Werha.       3         3       30       90         $200    $18,000     $36,000    $S54,000
Distict Oder           5         I       so      250         $30      $1,500      $6,000     $7,500
Mobilization           5        4        i2       60         $50      $2,400      $9600     $12,000
Trg nds ase.           9         1       10       90         $30       $300       $2,400     $2.700
Mnieval.               1        3        20       20         $100        $0       $6,000     $6,000
Com_mnty Mgt           9        4        30      270         $30      $$,600     $28,800    $32,400
Halth Cuap.           18        2        IS      270         $30       $900      $15,300    $16,200
Heat Camp.            18         1       30      540         $30       $900      $15,300    $16,200
Fbwaoclgt              1        3        27       27         $100        $0       $8,100     $8,100
Maintenance            2        S        IS       30        $100         $0      $1,000    $15,000
Resiona *oaf.         4S        S        45       45         $250        $0      $56,250    $56,250
lJ-cy                 55        10       55       55         $100    $S,000      $40,000    $45,000
TOW                   172       44      539    1,947        1,2S0     32,600     318,750    351,350
Matels                                                                                      100,000
Gtand Total                                                                                 451,350
£ FUP s th IDAGOU Fust Usban Pniect wbich has eamared $8S0,000 fr iniplrene   in one town
before doe Sl Twater and Santatn Pjct Credit is *te.
A.3    £ullg Sepdc   anTraind         ng               Base Cmst MUS$ miilion)
Porein         Load            Toal
TA Project Implementation                      0.300           0.000           0.300
Design and Supervision Consultancy             2.055           1.215           3.270
Additional Towns Preparation                   0.234           0.156           0.390
Traiing                                        0.096           0.224           0.320
Sub-Total A.3                                  2.685           1.595           4.280



Am= 7
Page5 of #
7.11         Opcam-             IC               b      bhO
A.4        9                 ___ ___
lll awd
O&M Vdds                     @.mi        0.210       0.26
Of&$ Opesdow                 0.020       0.090       0.110
^lm  Staffal3 AD=0.000                   0376        0.7
3mb-Totd  A,4                0.070       0.6Q        0.746



811  go"1  111     CMn  go"  urn       Mu   wen  sn       muo  MOc  tin       gu m   inn             wi-r
Me  an   muo    ucn  am  am           to"  to       V       u    n MDr               n
- g m    co        On   m    am        cme  an    n       an   on  a          MO  N n    n               a
an  £wu  m         sin  Mu  Am         gm   an   an       Om   fen   anW a                nu        m3smak
mu   si n    m      mu     u   m 0 nan      an   n o      un    un   "gn      wIs  Oi    NM       iosu PM  n-
MOn  mu  Eu        0eo1  go   mu       a"  o50   uwo    Is   On m t           an    n an
AM0  gm0  a"0    6650  1600   we0       Iu   mm0  WV      NMu  mm  Go"        gm   gm   a
AW 611011 an   WsO  e b   am   cn   am  an  con61  Mu     Gm0  an0  Om       env   WV0  6011
su  ion  mu   mua sin   m        O    an cu          Om   an   NM       env  91  awe
WV  te oat"u  an  Om                   siV  en  tiwo      an  am   no                u            w       e
an DU  iOn         Oa"  R1 a  muI    0*U  lis   WV        gui  Sn   MO        *AsV   u   Om-
n  mu  ou            u   We  m         mu  mu   m u        6m"  smu  an      "mu    n   an           UsqsiV
OM   ao   uIo      Mu   an   gu        An   an    mu      OM   an   an  _ Iu  Om   grn
901u   an  cm       M   an  tin        muOmu  so          siO  gm    m        no   m    an
t0o1 ew   Ca       go   an  Gm         a0   mu em         aN   cn   so        s    mu  mu
de"  al   mu       on   gmu  mul       ooiu  tin   u"    auoi  gmo   ou       con   muo  an          wmi
son   amo    u     MO saro  mu         tu  ion  co         mu   wo  an        t0o  Am   mO         uog*0 WUO
OM   sou   mu       wV  uau   mu       mu  Sie   au        mu  iio   mu       5*0  pLO   60          dqiw
aou   muw  mOux    an   awu   mu      moou  ae   m         mu   mu   mou      mO  am  cm           gowq OM
con  an   muv       mu"  an   mu"       mun  muD  anV      mun  mu mman Go     ,0Go    D          iustAp, urn'
art  on  Un-        m an  ungw         at il  amu  Osl     stiu  OM   £u      r-i  mu  an             T4m-em
en   No   mu       asu  au  cn         iD  WV  m           me  mu  0wn        an   An  an           %i >uo
It"  Goo   mul      mul  un"  Gm       11  gmu  gmo        mn  aon   pm1      son  Own  mun           &
iwo eof   mn       muo  ots  muo       me mu   mu         ton  swo   an       an   mO    "e 
Oe  an  tvo         u   emtoo e o    OM    an   Om        an  a"  amu
an   an   muo       ou  an   an        mu   mu  am         mu   mu  an        an   to   an         u    c
an   mu0  ao       &w"  an   muo       D     o   aun      an   an   an        son   wu  iwo
msV  cm   etu       mu  an   su        asOt   mu                 en an  two an  an  on  an  em
mutin   1          mu   mu m            11m    w           wot$ mu   mu       m      n a                   ,        weAj
n   mU  ano    am   s0n   mu           mo  mu  an         as   au   mu        m    mu   m           WA o-MIs
an  oan   SN       mu   mu   mu        mu   mu  gm         mu"  tmu  a        tmu  an   an         uAQL-GM
am    A"  m0u      a.e-  an  amu        u   ton  ion      mu  aon  amu        gim OM Rn mu09qv
n   om   mug       iou  mu  sn         an   an  tan       an  ae      n       env  O    0" Wm
an   m    mu       We  m    0u          o   an   mo       iwo  an   un        awn  in  an         umeius,          oem-I-
Om   cm amo   so              a        tw   g    gmo   twno  MOwv snt  gm   O    gmn E ooen" t
IV
-…~~~~---  --  --             -------- -                                                  -…--
FPL  int au             Po   AM* IpS  P      wn Am.l  0i  PI"  N% ct d m           Pan  4m       was-"              mt--    asm
10
- U  ,                                             MO L   S I B   t



Ii
101   AU    "n         al   "O    Om &1 t$*  a"@l SM                    I     D tW          an   101 1 tl>D
Wu          en, es       s          eon       mu  alt  8goo 0m M     aU    n    m                        eMn gm  "   Om    p
a"    M  san           twt US11  co"          et"   $010   o         a"   am   gm  _         " s" answ
a"   Lm    art         san   meu  an       o  mto         sua g      Am      o AM  on       Sw    on    Wsn           wsiqwps
ewt   no  2L1          Gm 8tt0  WOm  11l   an 0t   0                     e Gmr tov          ow  F1t an            _      A
as;  gom   co"         mo    gm   soswo       gmu  gm    co         Om    gmn   am          gm    am   a            em w*MG^o
sin    mu   an         mu   It"    mu"        t     am   amu         muo  an    mn          *ou  uon   mu             OWD
Gin    mu0  sn:        Inv   an   mu1         mu   Om,  Gm           mu   ame   a"          Vn   mu   ton           AOudqsAeP ems1ple
$oUV   on;s  owg       gmu   4au   on         a":   mul  sOm         ane   Au   mn          an    mu   as;               mLm
mulpol   0 co"mu       m      mue   mu"       St"  gm      mu*       St"   tow    mun        mul   mui   an           usomp
Os"   w'   tu's        nwo     n   wisgo      s     gg's mu  eas mu                         a n wo  amms asi's _m
ogw;  Go"s  art        SP"   utu m   son  M         gmu   so;:l       WV   oe   w;          urs   on"  an          W,- PAPmII             WVg--
aan    nm  two         ua  Gme    su          VA"    mu"   no'       ion   an   to"         u.n   mun  awe             'war-r
a'    nlo  mu10   r-s t u   omu               W    sto"    mu        in 9so    muo          20n   an   mu    t uAluPW sO
gmn   mu   ste'        gm's     m     uO      Oa"'s   o so            a"ma an mu    u        so   ow'   si's            dkadVg
asl'o   se's  am             an   Ow          9'01s  ilso    mu       o    su    m          mu    On   Om
sm'vs ewe   M's       ass'   sn    mSWI       wo   ass:  se          la"   an   gmo         m's  we'   WVs         wm,dqmpmos9PUAF
ms   mu   muo  9       sure  so    ton        es  oet   10m10        ens   am    mu410      ia's on    an                Ar_-ms
ame   mu   mu          mu   as   mu 0          eto"   an    mu       an   anl  m            an   tn   eOD        l     mou
RtO  so"v  o0         Slot'  saDvo  aDgro      Vl   gmo   no0        AMV  -RR      S ton    Am    an       0               _
su'sosos wo            us;o  eno's   mu       aswo   mu      u       a      m     wo'      tag    mu   mu4        9      _  '
n'Om    mu    aiV      M    LO"               Om           Ogs s'on mun on  an m   o  on slo u     mu aPPs'°s-
ilo  1w    ue          Imu   to'   i's        ssmu    muIb   pe's mJ              mu       Sir _:n PP1: 11~U6Wo                        IOuUUI--     1
----~~~~~------   --                   ---------              --    -- --------------------
PP.1  pmI  su*ej       ppa    mi  uW.j        aowj  Pool  040c       ppa   wow' auoi        Fu.s  pwow  uqwsj                            =us-       Mi
u.OPPL              cap890410ppi           OAPaIAO* ,dq           UpSOOiiA4ioweg
P^1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4mm -o P  _OeWdM O SMO tW
AMOMO_MI-   iwmioPoouusirwms   vw
NOUV5nW sansoAw  i irnii



VEMMLm COSTOM0M1AEI0k
POTA        8.LTM                   -                                                                                                                                                      o I
Sm.Sll                   PIwdO      __b!guwI            PdPo*C=*Vmwl                 TcWCOwbWmd=                       Toio00-
am        --TOM                                     F~                Toird       Pg* laud    TP                         LA.1   TF PoNt   Lm d d                           Pa    lad    To
AS    E __mu6uoMdWob:
-p wpo.uu-~aubawaogtgn,.                    1.104   0.040   4.144        0.160    MO0I-  OA2            .140G   0OA=    Q174        0.004    .012   4w4            1.4    *AM    1.A00
am      o00    UNo           am5     0g       OAS          054    0A00    0.04          0100    0.0      00           0m    0.0        .4
TOTAL A8                                     1400   O040 1J 00   0*10    0A.S   02                      0       CAN    0.00    Q2B41           012    A4SS         S*00       2    1*54
A38       OmmaSllrGm. Tmgwd
A 'I140dTMf
-T_kamWM40                                                                                             a       am0011 MO    MOAO 10.0                 AM0 0.402001    0OOtS Q0O  QOt2 0   000  .102
- TA primr Iqluuou                          am0     am00    0.00         am50    0500    0400          CA40    O=0      a"04         a.4     0*0    GAO4          0440    0400    a,"
- 0m uWttSs4mibw mcmudmw                     am5    115   .0*0           *A0D   0.0O    .0a            Om      0.101   0.33         0*72    O.461    03           2w       SAM    3
- AI.uTmunad                                0834    Q.11i   040b         t040    040  100 0.0           *1    0.00     QOli2         001    0.001    0052         Q2115   0.41?   0.4
TOtAL AS                                     UK0    1        40           am00    0400     A0           0.55   0.211    0s5          0955   0." t 0MM             3*S0    lam    4.0l
A.4       opoaedOmb
- Osaiw r M50    we    0.2Ba am                                           OoO   00    0.000 Ao Q.o             em        A4          am7    0.000   O*04          0Q7   0*6        QS0
- aeop_udb                                  Om      04m0    a.110        am       0400    0400        Q040     QOt2   0.015          Dow0    0t2   0.1             0.A0    0e    0
- LDSMOADOMo                                04        70    0Q7          0.0    OAN0    acM            0000    am         m0A00    CAD60   Q060                    0A40  Q 0       0445
ITDAL A.4                 f J        V          o QO'    0.745            0.00    am      o.a           00    &M        00           040      040    &             0m      am       am
PAfTA    smm4 TONS ooU0N
TOTAL                                      1I*0      4.44   ILe5          1*0    a&m       IAN          1.0    043      tam          2S03    08       S0"I        I&87     5401   10.7o6



Am,c 8
Page 1 of 5
PROJECT DESCR1nION AND COMS
PART B - JIMA - NJERU
Totd Cost, induding condigences:  US$24.8 mvion
Responsibe Agency:               NWSC
Background
8.01         Jinja Municipality has a current populaffon of approximately 60,000, however about
125,000 people live in NWSC's Jitija service area that includes Jinja Municipality, part of Njeru town,
and outlying areas of Jinja and Muloono Districts. Rehabilitation and expansion of filities in parts of
Njeru (1991 populadon of 38,000) would be included in the Project and be part of an expanded Jinja-
Njeru service area. Because of the economies of scale with the NWSC piped system, and NWSC tariff
stucture, most other technologies are unlikely to be able to compete with the piped supply. While
most of the Jinja service area lends itself to NWSC's public utiities approach, many localities within
the NWSC service area and in the immediate surrounds have more of a rur chacter and therefore
would require a different approach to providing sstainable servce. The Jinja service area in the
Project provides an opporunity for NWSC to develop a holistic approach to community water supply
service. A pilot stand post unit in NWSC would be formed with an objective of providing more
widespread coverage of the urban fringe areas wlich utflities have generally not serviced in the past
8.02         The water supply and sewerage system in Jinja, the second-13rgest town in Uganda,
has undergone no substantial rehabilitation in the last thirty years and is thus the only major town
under NWSC that has not had an expansion in recent years. A component for Jinja was appraised in
1989 as a part of NWSC's water supply and sanitaton program, other parts of which are being
finmced through IDA Credit 2124-UG as the Second Water Supply Project, with cofinacing from
EEC, the Austrian Governmet and GIZ.
8.03         Since the time the plans for expansion in Jinja were proposed, several significan
events have occufred: (i) The distibution system has deteriorated considerably, mainly due to extenal
and internDa pipe corrosion. to the extent that major rehabilitation of the rising mains and the
distribution system is now necessary. (ii) lhe demand has risen much more slowly than anticipated,
mainly due to the consumers' reluctance to pay for the higher tariffs that were imposed as part of the
Second Water Supply Project. (iii) The water quality at the intake from Lake Victoria has deteiorated
due to several causes that are under investigation, including a drastic change in the fauna of the lake
following the itroduction of the Nile Perch and the increased use of fertilizer and other pollution in
the lake basin. A project is under preparation for studies in the entire Lake Victoria basin to be
financed by the Global Enironment Fund to better understand the reasons for the rapid degradation of
the lake water quality and to propose mgating measures for the countries in the basin to implement.
Water supply and sion impovements would be part of t-he proposed Small Towns Water and
Sanitation Project, including rehabilitation of extg facilities and expansion in high priority areas.
The new feasibility study for Jinja-Njeru completed in March 1993 concluded that the expansion of the
water tratment plant proposed in the previous study was unnecessary at this stage, since at present the
plat was operating substa ly below capacty because of the large leaks in the system and the low
demand.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
Descirpton
8.04         The existing water supply facilities in Jinja would be rehabilitated, involving mainly
the replacement of pipes, fittings, valves, hydrants, and related equipment. This would include leak
detection and repair as well as water meter replacement and installation, with emphasis on providing
communal stand pipes. The existing water treatment works and raw water intake would be
rehabilitated and modified as required. The water distribution network would be expanded to serve
other parts of Jinja, parts of Njeru, and other select areas outside Jinja Municipality and consumer
registration carried out for standposts and household connections.
8.05         The existing sewers in Jinja would be rehabilitated and expanded. The sewage
treatment ponds in Jinja would also be rehabilitated and modified as needed, the existing sewers
expanded, and new sewage treatment ponds constructed at two locations in Njeru. Other sanitation
improvements would typically consist of the upgrading or construction of pit latrines of different
designs, rehabilitation or construction of septic tanks, and construction of public latrines.
8.06         The detailed drawings for water supply and sewerage expansion which were prepared
about five years ago for Jinja would be reviewed and revised as needed. A limnological study related
to the futme raw water intake from Lake Victoria would be conducted in junction with the Uganda
Fresh Water Resources Research Organzation based in Jinja) and plans for the fiuther expansion of
water supply and sanitation in Jinja-Njeru prepared. Also included are the provision of hygiene
education; training; technical assistance; computerization of billing; a tariff and affordability study; and
acquisition of vehicles, equipment, spare parts, and chemicals for Jinja-Njeru.
Cost Estmtes
8.07         Cvil Works -  For the water supply this includes the replacement of microstrainers,
electromechanical work, supply and installation of piping and fittings, reservoir rebabilitation and
system metering. For the sewerage works, sewer cleaning and repairs would be undertaken, inflow
improvements at the Kimala and Kirinya ponds, and the Kirlnya ponds rehabilitation and new ponds
constructed in Njeru.
B.1   Chil Works                       Base Costs (US$ million)
Foreign       Local         Total
Water Supply                       8.200        2.800       11.000
Sewerage                           1.780        0.870        2.650
Santation                          0.000        0.200        0.200
Sub-Total  B.1                     9.980        3.870       13.850
8.08         Equtpmeut and Materals -  Sewer cleaning equipment would be procured as well as
a tractor with back hoe, vacuum tankfr, and dewatering pump and generator. A three year supply of
spares and tools would also be purchased. The following vehicles and chemicals would be procured:



Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
Vehicle l2WXirM=ns
2 Dos.       4X4
1 us.        picku
1 nos.       lorry
2 nos.       double cabin
OmIrRMiFementa:
Alum                      900 tbns
Chlorine gas                55 tons
Powered Chlorine            S0 tons
B.2             andBMaaes               mmse Costs (US$ milion
E         n                  I
Equipmet and Spares                0.570        0.000         0.570
Vehicles                           0.230        0.000         0.230
Chemicals                          0.590        0.000         0.590
Sub-Total  B.2                     1.390        0.000         1.390
8.09         Consuhng Srces, and Dablag -  As described in Para. A8.03 a limnological
study would be conducted to dermine the optimal location of the raw water inake(s) for Jinja. This
study would assess the overal enim    impac of the Jinj componet of the Project. Work
would be undrtae in kd.ntfyln better ways of sevicing areas normally not covered by NWSC.
These would be the lower Incm  goup areas where community management and payment for
standpost service levels could be better developed. A demand and affordability study for Jinja-Nj-eru
would be carried out very early in te project implementation period in order to dermine
methodologies for improvement of the finc   position of NWSC and to determine the affrdability
of the service with a possibity of then proposing more opdons at the lower end of the service levels
such as stand posts.
8.10         Review and rodesign of phases U and m for Kampala and Entebbe would be
undetake.  xistng tender docume  would be revised. Source investigations for the Gulu water
supply Crochi Dam) would be financed under the credit. For the overall design and supervision of the
Jinja componen co tants would be egaged b, M'WSC. The scope of work would include planning
and desigp for the water supply and sewerage sysems, pilot water pre-treatment studies, and system
mapping, leak detecton, and meting. One tcna assistance staff would be financed for two years.



Anm 8
Page 4 f 5
B.3            SgiaudaInd     ug                  Ba  GM dUS m111n
Law    I"1
Lmnological Study and EA                      0.300        0.240     0.50
Community Manamnt Study and Faclton           0.130       0.050      0.180
Hygiene Studies and Sanitation Pomoion        0.070        0.030     0.100
Tra1ning                                      0.2          0.300     0.500
Demand and Affordability Study                0.030        0.020      0.050
Kampala, Entebbe, Gulu , and Jinja-Meu
Expansion Sudies                           1.840        0.200      2.040
Desip and Supervision Consultsy               1.000        0.640      1.640
Techmical Assistance                          0.290        0.000     0.290
Vehices in above contas                       0.190        0.000     0.190
Sub-Total  B.3                                4.050        1.480     5.530
8.11        Opwaing Costs -  The adm      v costs aociated with the implewentation of
the Jinja-Meru component of the Project are deied below.
B.4            osts Costs (OSS Mi$ ion
EQU           lawhTo
Running costs (fuel, spares)     0.000        0.050        0.050
Performanc Alowance              0.000        0.150        0.150
Sub-Total  B.4                   0.00         0.200        0.200



P  a - a~C                                                       a
eo          ~          __-                      PboOmSa_                  Tdd                         T.~
- - -- - -- -  - -  - - - - -- - -- -  - -  - - - -- -- - - - - - -- - -  -- - -- - - - -- - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - -
otag     -O.*bm                              P5s   Lad   TOM                         Tie        P      Ld   ted          Fx        O    TFd        F^p       d   tlFe
___~E                                 5W     sse  sas          ow     ste   su          5555   s.7t6  0m          e?        s sa            a.u            ue 
~- 35toss Ow                                       ta           s    ts      usX   0sit   sue   sea               ots   se      aas        sall 45    sa
- I      .i                           em    sm IAD             amw  o  OmsuGme                  A      1                  a sta             amss
-Vhwsw*                     tin~sa    sAmG   eSS     sass   sam    mmU          as am Wo       ss        s      iam    0*5        0*75  0.05    us
TOM &I                      g~~~tm  M    ame          sam    Uam   sCM         1seas   sAss  sam         Ili   sim   se            sam    sAm   ame
as  E**                              sass  toes   seas         sam "lemso    am         same  ss    sm4           ass  asme  osaso          sea    sm    5A5
-E_a 05I                              am    sm    am           am     Os       M        ame   ts   ame            ss   ss                   s      st
-               _                     seas  Om _As             ts   OmQ  00am             s$   am    S.A          sm    ss owt              am    DAN    as
To aes ni.UilCUtU .m   sem    tam                              tamS   sam   sass         slotS  sas   t61eb       sM4   Oss   0ue           ss   am    ant
so                                            se   ss Tassru
_Teb
am     am    sm           am    as   oa            AS   oso   os  0                Se O    e "               s
-0" _HS4A 0            ztw                   a   oam   Q O             "a  O"OD         a       uge   *-?         &a    aM im    0o         UV   tw "
mm     sas    AM      mmO    mm=   sas         mm    ems   ems            t mm    tots  tots      seas    u     sa
-el:_,e~~~~~~~~~~~a                am_ OM e    OA=   O:   am                   Om    OD 0n07            OLs    OM e2Dr                   amr owl
-T_dd                                                                                                                                              amO  1  OJXDtR6  1e<6 20tZ5
-T_s) 01"                              AM0B    U                 m    am    OM           Ul    4LS  0M&11   IS    0                          .41 o"    amt
OA   nu lam    mm                                                   m        mm                m   mm                    mm   mm                mmA  mN  OMm
-_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO"es  wAs    ADS   Om    Om    OM                             O      am     Om         a      a   QGLS 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   am    &M                           un am           0        gm ffOtS   Gals          am    Om      OtMS        am O4D S5 a
low ad                                Om    sum    am           usv    sw      e         sOM    am    auog        OAe    mm    se           Gm    am    &M
%A5b



Annex 9
Page I of 6
lROJlE Al E r          N  D CO=S
PART C - INSMFtUONAL STGREG
Total Cost, inluin coninendes:  US$ 2.3 mlio
Resposile Agency:               DWD
Backround
9.01         The proposed capacity building comonent alms ae: i) strengeing DWD to ensure
its continued leadership role in the sector; and (h) improving the planning and mle tion capacity
of local govarnents and communtes to iuoduce demand-drven, community-managed waw supply
and sanitation services. The fiacal and management capacity of the main insdtitons involved in the
Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program (the Program) would be strengthened to faclae the
implementation and operation of the water supply and sanitation improvements in the small towns.
The two main factors which call for this Instittonal strengthening are ( the hag  role of DWD
as a planer and regulator of te sector rather h  an implementor and to provide the needed backup
to the community orgaizations that would be reponsible for the operation and maitenance of fte
schemes, and (i) the involven ent of the communities in all stages of the project, starting with
planing. Ihe involved inttutin are (I) the user organizations to be formed, Cu) the distict and
urban governmes, and  l DWD. This includes the prvision of training, technical assistance,
studies, workshops, preparation of training mateials, vehicles, office furiture and equipment, training
equipment, and rehabilitation of office buildings. An in-depth    _     and straegic planing study
would be carried out in one dirict and a participatory orgztion asessment and strategic planning
study to help strengthen the restuctured DWD. Ihe Program's aroach in the context of
decentralization involves fundmental insttonal raomatDons. Traiing that i directly related to
project implementation is included in the cost estmates for Part A: Small Towns (Annex 7), while all
other training, related to capacity building beyond the Project and for operation and maintenance of the
works that would be constructed under the Project is included here.
Description and Cast Ealmates
o     STNGTHENfIG    OFDWD
9.02         DWD would supevise consultat and contamc   and provide guidance to district and
local authoridtes on the implem on of the Program and more specifically, the Project. It would
undertake capacity building at headquaters and disrict levels to carry out this new mandate and
perform its scope of work for the Program, which would entail:
o     At Hedquaars:
a.    Fataflshbbl_t of a   _    R us Development QlD) Unit. The Unit would be
directed by an experienced HRD speciaist skilled in perfrming a wide range of trainig
managemet responsibilities, from inid  mam     of tg    needs to impact evaluation.
The HRD specist would be respomible for facfliting and maging the Waining and
develqpment programs with the  ance of a management and organization specialist to be



Page 2 of 6
called upon when necesay. As an Initil step, a training needs assessment would be
conducted. Funds would be provided tirough the proposed Small Towns Water and Sanitation
Project to develop trainig materials and a training presence in the towns targeted for
astan. Thus, the HRD Unit would take an active management role to mnsure that materials
and resources developed are used in other towns. It would also ensure coordination of other
training initatves.
b.    PartiiApato  Organtion         _t and Strtegic Plbing Study. The study would
support DWD in its restructuring process and preparing for opeations under a changed
mandate. It would assist DWD appraise options to meet these on-going project implementation
and management responsibiities and in defining a course of action. This study would be
undertake by a small team of local consultants assistd in the first instance by external
e"pertse.
C.               t and Profesional Training. Activies would be budgeted according to the
ERD Plan to be developed and managed by the new HRD Unit following the training needs
awssment_ The training funds would be utilized for local ring, e.g., technical training
given by NWSC. In addition, region  programs at are congruent with DWD's development
needs would be considered. The training should be particulary relevant to the Ugandan
context.
d.    Ezewldve Development. Senior management officials in DWWD would be encourage to
patcipt in programs helping them prepare for changes that are imminent in DWD and its
work environment. Ihese programs, conducted over a 4-6 week period, typically involve top
exeies fom a wide range of prvate and public organizations. Their main objective is to
impove indivu  and organtional pfmame.
e.    Selcive TechnIcal s _   Short term expertse is envisaged to assist DWD managers
and prfessional staff to assume new responsibilities. It includes monitoring and evaluation,
legal and financial expertise; and one long-term technical assistance staff member who would
aist DWD in the transitional period.
f.    Relbrblshlng of DWD Office. DWD would prepare space to accommodate the expanded
ining unit and provide conference and workshop facilities by refirbishing presently
unutilized space in the DWD complex.
g    CP  ,its for Hefadqla
hft*ucOw&By*=W Semina Room and reoWd offic e"ubWw  329.000
TOWOVIO&AN     a~mteglc Hnannhe an T=mln  Needs Aaammea   $ 50,000
hd_ ^ Sel_ Za i S2Tnihw                       $90.000
_________________ RecWuiv DyMmudoea                $ 60.000
TochoW Awloftn  orvabwm Drmbpm" OM)      ~~$120,000
$ 60,000
Lega Advsor-Loca (JnUu)            $ 9,000
FTl Advisw Oqm)i )                 $ 40,000
Total                                                   S 4719,000



Ann= 9
Page 3 of 6
°     At Dutdd L*Wl
a.    Partdpatory Am nt and Strategic Planning Study. This study would be carried out in
o district tageted for the Project and decentralization. It aims at providing information and
insights about future district organization and operation, particularly in respect to its water and
sanitafion responsibilities. The assessment and subsequent planning activities would take into
account decentraization, DWD restructring and community management strategies. Ihis
exercise would involve a small team of local consultants assisted in the first instance by
external exertise.
b.    M-nagement and Professional Traiig. This training targets knowledge and skills
acquisition required by District Water Officers and staff to opeate in the new policy and
program environment. It would include management and techm-cal insauction; regional
workshops and conferences; specialized courses for identified competency need such as advice
to water user groups on infrastructure alternatives; and executive briefings for elected and
appointed leaders on developments in water and sanitation policies and programs.
c.    Physical Inprovements. Renovation of distict water offices, provision of fumiture and
office equipment would ensure efficiency of operation.
Ba  Cost Estmates for the District level
1 &fag&cuMw&5wdIeiraW   Rhabifluation of offmces  ivand tsedaquipmst  $402,00 
_        _OUPWfiedow Traivh$I S40.000
C CAPACITY BULDING OF LOAL GOVERNMENT MD COMMUNITY ORGANIATIONS
9.03         Helping water users get organized to manage affordable and susainable sy3tems that
would meet their needs in the foreseeable future would require training and development .npups at local
government and community levels. Eventually, the water users in the Project targei towns should have
the capacity to finance, manage, operate and maintain water systems, based on their choice of
technology. Therfore, training interventions would be addressed from two perspectives: (i) planning
for community-managed water and sanitation facilities and services; and (ii) managing, operating and
maintning these systems.
9.04         Pblning for Demand-Driven Water and Sanitation Servs -  Local government
elected officials and their staff specialism have some responsibilities in the water and sanitation sector.
They would, through properly designed and delivered training, be equipped to assist in the planning
and Implementatio of the Project. In order to do so, they need to understand their roles and
contributions in the Project's approach. Information sessions and workshops with elected officials and
appointed officers at the RC-5 (district), RC-3 and 4 (sub-county and town) levels would be led by
DWD officials and staff. Once these meetings have been held, the project team would work with
community development officer, health assistants and others already working as communwity
mobilizers to plan the promotion and mobilization phase of the project. Users would become more
understanding of realistic alternatives availale to them and financial and social obligations associaed



Anna 9
Page 4 f 6
with eawh option through an crientation process In relation to ommunity managed projects. In the
beginning of this process, the community would be involved in gathering information; using it for
decision-making; mobilizing other actors; understading and conicat   on operation and
maintenance of the systems; and dermining how collective decisions would be made and further
responsibilities would be carried out as the user community moves from planning to implemention.
Knowledge and skills to perfonn these askm would be imparted through trang at the town level.
Od__tat___a    _ N _a l_ uh _ S_a_ _ __            200              1        $ 80,000
Tam Bug Wa*MlhOM                                    30             3  _         36,000
_WMOskMMIonXq&  250            5        S 6,000
_ ______________________d_ha                       60             5        S   10.000
_______N__s_A___W_ho_                _              90             9 -           2000
Moeito     _    _ and Bnlu _ wo_ho_              :  20             1         $ 6,000
__________ y }_____________________________         270            9        S  29.000
TOTAL           .                                        . _ _              S169.000
9.05            anaing CnvmmuIty4Owned Faditis and Swvca -   Asistance to the
ommunities to underte cetin tehical Amctions and to establish simple management, operatng
procedures and system  would include traing in: organizing and operaig water and sanitation
commtt  and water user associations; establishing and staffing an orgnizaton t manage, operae
and maintn the water supply and sanion failities; developing financial regulations and procedures
to ensure hat the sevices and progms are sustained; preparg staff to assum  full responsibility for
th manaement, operadon and    m          of the facilities, and conducdng santion and heal
education campaigns.
FinnclW Manyakee Wodkho.                            27             1         $ 8000
__ __ _ ___Sk_ _W_ _A_               __             30             2        S lS,000
Noa * Heaamp_                            270             2        $15,000
ealth Bdution Campaign wo-sop                      S40             1        S 15.000
R eiloal C _n WU.../W _e                            4S            45        $ S6,000
koCoun  belad 1MMg                                  SS     _      55        S 40.000
Mera_B                                                                      $100.000
TTAL _                                                                      $249,000
9.06          The followbg is a ast summary for civ works, equipment and matrials, and
consulting services related to the  siio nal strengthening compone  of the Projed as detailed above.
Under the oqupment nd maters category 7 nos. 4X4 pickups would be procured for DWD distict
offices ($150,000). For DWD headquarters 4 nos. 4X4 pickups, 1 nos. bus, and 1 nos. staion wagon
would be procured.



Annex9
Page 5 of6
C.1   CvlWorks                         Base CM  MS milin
Office Rehabilitation
- Headquarter                  0.060        0.230        0.290
- District                     0.080        0.320        0.400
Sub-Total C.1                    0.140        0.550       0.690
C.2   Ewuiwme=  aLMaterials            Base Costs MUS$ million)
F7orei«       L&Oc         :i1
Vehicles                         0.352        0.000       0.352
Trining Materials                0.050        0.050       0.100
Sub-Total C.2                    0.402        0.050       0.452
C'.3    ConsX SgoerX                   DMBase Costs (IIS$ million)
Headquarters ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ NATa
- Training / Studies           0.120        0.080        0.200
- Technical Assistance         0.140        0.089        0.229
District DWD
- Traning / Studies            0.070        0.020        0.090
Local Goverment
- Planning for Demand Driven
Services (Worbshops)         0.020        0.149       0.169
- Managing Community Searices  0.010        0.139        0.149
Sub-Total C.3                    0.360        0.477       0.837



Ari9    !      i|   l                       I 65 §f|  
Pa86of6 5 '                     do 
' 5,
III |            I3!    ! ~! !  I    d
II b !                     d     d §5f
| 1 | |               em     9 3  3      
a      ''I!          d!  I  d"   I d      I
II 5        IId       4 II!   I    I  
Jii ! I II I  1111 1 1  
.~  I!       ..      ....II 
I  fi dd     



Annex 10-a
Page I of 2
AMOU?M AND METHODS OF PROCUREUNT IN US DOLLARS (MILUON)
SALL TOWm ANDINSTIUoNAL STRENGTHEN
COPONENTS - (DWD PARmTs A  C)
SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SATATION PROJECT
Description               ICB     LCB          Other  Shopping    Total
Cili Works
Source development            1.30              *"'0 3.10               4.40
Water distribution            1.00     1.00         0.40                2.40
Wells/sprngs                           3.64         8.80                4.44
On site sanitation                                  0.48                0.48
Rehabflitaion of Buildings     .38      .52                             0.90
Subtotal for CIlV Works           2.68      5.6          4.78               12.62
Goods
Piping, pumps etc.             .83                o  .35                1.18
Vehicles                       .40                  0.46                0.86
Trainin m Ials                           11                             0.11
Computer                                           0°.02                0.02
Office equipment/supplies                                       .09     0.09
Iie slabs                                           0.20                0.20
Subtotal for Goods                 1.23     0.11         1.03       0.09    2A6
Consultancy                                               .603
Traning                                               .36               0.36
TA Project imple io                                  .34                0.34
Design and supervision                               3.70               3.70
Additional towns preparation                         .44                0.44
Short term TA                                        .26                0.26
Staff development                                     .33               0.33
Management studies                                    .36               0.36
Subtotl for Co_nsancy                                    5.79               5.79
Opea0t  Costs
O&M vehicles                                         .29                0.29
Office opeations                                     .13                0.13
Performance allowances                                .43               0.43
Subtotal for Operatig Costs                              0.8                0.85
T O T A L                         3.91      5.27        12.45       0.09    21.72
* Competitive bidding on the District level 00  MSO  00  UNICEF  **°e  Force Account



Annex 10-a
Page 2 of 2
AMOums AND MPETOI3S OF ftOCURMNTr iN US DOLLARS (ILoN)
JINIA-NjEU COMPONEWT - (NWSC PART 3)
SMALL TOWNS WATER AM  SANITATION ROJECT
De tipto                    lCB       LCB      Other  Shopping      Total
Civi Work
Water Supply                  13.32                                    13.32
Sewerage                       2.95       .50                          3.45
Subtot for vCil Works               16.27      0.50       0.00      0.00     16.77
Goods
Vebicles                       .13                eo .15               0.28
chemicals                      .68                            .04      0.72
Equipmet and Spar               .60                                     0.60
computer                                          00.02                0.02
Office quipment/supplies                                      .07      0.07
Subtotal for Goods                   1.41      0.00       0.17      0.11      1.69
Consultanc
Limnological stdies                                 .60                0.60
Commuiy manement,
hygiene taris, afirdability,
water demand stdy
.36                0.36
Kampala, EteAbe and Oulu
investigations                                     2.25                2.25
Jinja/Nerm design and
suprvision                                         2.02                2.02
Technical Asistnce                                  .32      0.00       0.32
Trainig                                             .55      0.00       0.55
Subtotal Colsultancy                                      6.10      0.00      6.10
op  ating costs                                                     0.00
Runn costs                                          .06                 0.06
Performance allowamce                               .16                 0.16
Subtotal for Operatn Cuts                                 0.22      0.00      0.22
T 0 T A L                           17.68       0.50      649       0.11     24.78
*0 MAPSO



Annex I"b
Page I of 2
Jmplenuentatln Sdiedule
Dieoto  of Water Developmet
Small Towns Component - Parts A & C
Smiall Towns Water and Sanitation Piroject
Project Element                IM9    1994   1995   199    1997   199    1999   2009
SMAULL TOWNS
civil Works
Source Development                      D xZxxxxxxxxxxx   I xxxxxx2  iXX
Water Distrbuton                        i   xxxxxxxIiixxxxi 
Wells/spring                             l  iXiiiXX  xuiiIiiiI
On-site Sanitation                          xxxxxx~~xxx  rxxuuxx
Rehbmilitation of Buildings                      xxxxx   xx                xxx
Goods
Piping, pumps, etc.                  xxxxxxxxx            mxxxx
Vehicles                               xxxxx
Trainin Materal                      xxx          xxx
computer                             xxx
Office Eqimn/upies                   xxx                  xxx
Latrine slabsxxxccxi  XXX  xi LXxX
Consltng Ser-vices, Tedhniea
Asisane~and Trming
Training                               xxxixxxxxxliiiIcxxx,xxx
Technical Assistance                   xxxxixxxuxxx
Design and SupervisionI                           I
Additional TOwns Preparaton                    xxi
Short Term TA
StLaff Development
Op merang Cst   e                         XXID
Office Operations                      xxxxxxxixxxxxxxxxxxxxi
Performan  Allowance                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxixxUx



Anna 104b
Page 2 of 2
Implenentaton Schedule
National Water and Sewage Corporation
JlJa-PNeru Component - Part B
Snafl Towns Water ad Sanitadon froject
Prolect Element                     1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
JlINI/ NJERU
Water Supply                                    xxxxxxxx _                -     -
Sewerage/San ittion                                  _      _xxxxoo   xxxx xzc
On-site Sanitation Facilities
Goods                                                              I
Equipment and Spares
Vehiles                                   xxx                xxa
Chemicals                                       xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
Consltant Servs, Technicl
Assistance, and Training
Limnological Study                            xxxxxxxx
Community Management                               I
Hygiene Tariff                             xxxxxxx
Kampala, Entebbe and Gulu                          I
Investigations                                xxxxxxxxxx
JinJa/Njeru Design                                 I
and Supervision                        xx
Training                                     I            _
Technical Assistance                         x3     oxxxxx
Operting Costs                                 I      l
Running costs                              XXXXYXXX XX>L_
Performance allowance                                                 -,



A4PUa 11
Page I of I
CONSULTING SEaVICES AND TtCHNCAL ASSWANC SUMMARY
SMALL TOWN WATER AND SANTATION PROJECT
Specialist                                          WType of Svie
ProJe  Componit AC
DWD
a) Trainig                                           Consulting Firms or NGOs
ForeP   an/r Local
b) Technical Asistac  mpleme                              ation  Expet
c) Design and Supervision                            Consulting Firms or NGOs
Foreign and/or Loca
d) Additional Town Prearti                           Consulting Firms or NGOs
Foreig and/or Local
e) Short Term Tedmicl Aitance                      Itationa Expert
f) Staff Deveopment                                  nternationa I Local Expert
) Mangement S es                                     Coslting Fms or NOOs
Foreign and/or Local
Piroject Component I
NWSC
a) Limological Study                                 Conl Firms or NaOs
Foreig and/or Loca
b) Communty Managmt                                  Consulting Firms or NGOs
and Hygiene Studes                           Foreig and/or Loa
c) Tariff nd Affrdabi  Study                        Consuldng Firms or NGOs
Foeigl and/or Local
d) Kampala, Et, ad   u Investig       s              Consultng Firms or NGOs
Foreig and/or Loc
e) Deig and Superisio                                Consulting Firms or NGOs
Forde   and/or Local
f) Teccal Asian                                      Itenational Exqt



Annex 11-a
Page I of 2
PREULMINARY TEMS OF REFERENCE
DESIGN AM SUPERVISION
DIRECTORATE OF WATER DEvELoPMENT
SMAL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
DWD has at times not been able to effectively fulfill its assigned functions, mainly due to financial
constraints. Tle Government is presently reviewing its functions and responsibilities in the water
sector in order to make DWD and related sector organizations more effective, guided by the following
principles:
-  an integrated approach to water supply, sanitation, and health education to achieve
sustainable and effective use of water and sanitation facilities through methods that are
replicable;
- promotion of community participation and low-cost technologies;
-  introduction of finmcial self-sustainability; and
- adoption of demand-driven investment planning.
The key objecives of the assignment are the completion of the activities leading to
rehabilitation/expansion and new construction of water supply and sanitation services in the town of
Lugazi, on the basis of demand driven, community based services, and for the initiation and
completion of all activities leading to rehabilitation/expansion and new construction of water supply
and sanitation services in the remaining ten towns.
SCOPE OF WORK
(a)    Preparation -  Following the methodologies used by the consultant in the Appraisal Study,
Reports 4, 5, and 6 develop the data and options f or the two towns of Busia and Malaba, to the same
detail as the other towns, taking into account and incc:porating the critique of that assignment by
DWD and the World Bank. -In the consultants proposal, he must define the sequence of his phased
approach to the towns and how they interrelate to each other.
(b)    Guidelines and Methodologies -  Based upon experiences gained in the assignment, the
consultant will continue to assist DWD to fine tune the Policies and Guidelines, as verified under
Phase I.
(c)    Promotion -  Assist DWD, by providing local or regional specialist expertise and materials,
in it's role in promoting the programme and the project at national, district and community levels.
Ihis will involve the production of promotional materials, and assistance with the organisation of
seminars and workshops.
(d)    Mobilisation -  Based upon the findings of the previous activities in Lugazi, assist DWD, by
provision of specialist expertise and materials, in mobilisation activities, utilising the district and local
resources, to assist the residents of the towns in the formation of Water User Groups (WUG), Water
and Sanitation Committees (WSC) and Water User Associations (WUA). This will involve the
production of materials, and assistance with the organisation of seminars and workshops.
(e)    Planning and Design -  As a result of the community dialogue developed in mobilisation,
and based upon the experiences gained in the Phase I activities in Lugazi, assist the WUG'S, WSC's



Annex l-a
Page 2 of 2
and WUA's in selecting their choice of service levels and technologies for the different service areas,
development of designs with eapital and recurrent cost estimates to facilitate dialogue with the
communities, whilst carrying out simple socioeconomic verification exercises, and preparation of
detailed designs of the various technological solutions for the service levels chosen by the
communities, with detailed cost estimates covering both capital costs and recurrent costs, specifications
and bills of quantities.
(t)    Construction -  Assist DWD in assessing the procurement needs of each town (to include for
the method of provision of SanPlat slabs, and VIP latrine slabs if required), including the identification
of local contractors and helping the communities in identification of ways in which they can contribute
their input in kind, through provision of materials andlor labour.
(g)   Operations and Maintenance -  As the chosen service level is established for each
beneficiary group whether a WUG represented by a WSC or a WUA for larger piped schemes, the
consultant will assist the communities in the identification of the community personnel for management
and for operations and maintenance.
(O)   Capacty Building -  In the methodology adopted for the activities, develop capacity
building in Uganda, in both the public and private sectors, to take an increasing role in the programme
and project management during this and future projects.
(i)    Hygiene Education -  Through the medium of developing training materials and campaign
activities, increase the awareness in the community of the need for hygienic practices and encourage
the use of safe sanitation facilities in the community. The methodology should allow for assisting
DWD to monitor and evaluate the impact of the campaigns during the post construction activities, and
provide for follow up campaigns during this period.
ORGANIZATION:
The consultants will be engaged to carry out the services described above, and will work closely under
the direction of the Urban and Institutional Water Development Department (UIWDD) of DWD.
TIMING AND STAING:
The consultancy is expected to be awarded for commencement by Julty 1994, and take a maximum of
approximately forty two months in total. It is anticipated that the consultants staffing structure will
encompass, but not necessarily be limited to, the disciplines of appropriate technology, training,
institutional strengthening, hygiene education, and hydrogeology. The total anticipated man months of
consultancy input for the activities are not expected to exceed 420 man months of which over 80% is
expected to be in local inputs. The expatriate staffing is expected to be of the highest standard with the
principle aim of developing expertise in Ugandan personnel to further reduce the expatriate input in the
other future projects under the programme.
REPORTING:
The consultant will report to the Commissioner for the Urban and Institutional Water Department at
DWD for all activities and consultation.



Annex 11-b
Page I of 2
PRELIMUNARY TERMS OF REFERENCE
DESIGN AND SUPERVISION
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATIoN PROJECT
OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the assignment are to:
o develop a community management programme for water supply and sanitation services
and the institutional structure for a community management unit, within the NWSC;
* prepare institutionai, financial and implementing options for the delivery of sanitation
services by the NWSC; and
* develop a schematic plan outlining the existing and projected urban and rural
development areas of the Jinja Water Supply Area (WSA), including the existing and
projected water and sanitation infrastructure, which with the Jinja Structure Plan, will
support the formulation of the community management programme (a map of the Jinja
WSA is appended).
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Phase One: Data Collection and Analysis
*     sReview On-Going Programmes and Committed Development
*     Base Mapping/Aerial Photography
D     Identify Exising Conditions
*     Demographic and Social Analysis
*     Water Supply, Distribution and Management
Sewerage and Sanitation Review
*     Economic Base Analysis
o     W.^omen in Development
*     Infrastructure Standards, Building By-law and Construction Codes
*     Identification and Analysis
o     P>ublic Participation
Phase Two: Project Preparation Studies
*     Planning
*     Widlingnes-To-Pay
Community Management
*     Environmental Impact
*     Sanitation Altematives
*     Tariff Structures
*     Delivery of Low Cost Sanitation
o     NWSC Community Water Supply and Sanitation Unit
Phase  ree: Action Pro ming
*     Preferred Alternatives
*     Action Programmes
*     Public Participation



Annex 11-b
Page 2 of 2
REPORTING
An Inception Report will be written within one month of mobilisation followed by the Schematic
Development Plan and Special Studies at the end of Phase Two. The Final Report at the end of Pnase
Three will include the action programmes, budget estimates and implementation schedules.
TIMING
The Consultant should outline a proposed time schedule for the Study, with associated task time lines
for each team member.
STAING
The Consultant should identify the team members, their functions according to the tasks and their
relevant experience in these tasks. The team should have at least the following expertise.
Municipal Enginmer
Environmental Engineer
Economist
Health Education Specialist
Social Anthropologist (or similar)



Annex l1-c
Page I of I
TERA(S OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
DIRECTORATE OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVES
The principal objective is to strengthen the in-house capacity of the DWD to be able to cope with the
extra tasks involved in management and procurement of services to acceptance standards for this
project.
SCOPE OF SERVICES
(a)    The Adviser shall be stationed in the DWD (Kampala) and attached to the DUIWD. lhe
Adviser may however be required to travel upcountry in the course of executing official duties.
(b)    The Adviser will be charged with the responsibility of assistance and advice in the
implementation of the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project and the preparation of documentation
for other towns in the RTWSP.
(c)    During the preparatory and implemention phases, the Adviser shall be responsible to the
Commissioner (DUIWD) of DWD who will also approve his travel and leave requests. The Adviser
will however be afforded easy access to the Director, (DWD) to discuss issues related to projects under
RTWSP. Direct Communication with the World Bank or any other donors should be by prior consent
of the Commissioner (DUIWD) or Director (DWD).
In particular, the Adviser shall:
(a) Liaise with NWSC and other related organizations/individuals to achieve project objectives in
respect of the Small Towns Water and Santion Project and his first priority.
(b) Advise and assist on technical matters for selection/employment of Consultants/Contractors and
project contract management.
(c)   Advise and assist in documentation to acceptable standards and format in respect of procurement
of goods and services.
(d)   To undertake any other duties as may be assigned to him from time to time which are in line
with the project objectives.
REPORTING
The Adviser shall be required to prepare monthly work plans and quarterly reports on all the activities
covered above.



Anne 11-d
Page I of I
PRELIMINARY TERM OF REFERENCE
TRAING AND INSTITtIONAL DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
DIRECTORATE OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
SmALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
OBJECTIV
The main objective of the technical assistance is to enhance the capacity of the Training/HRD Section
to effectively manage and coordinate training activities at all levels of staff of DIWD. The Training and
Instituffonal Development Specialist would provide professional advice to DWD's Training/KR)
Section in its efforts to build-up the sklls required to execute its functions. The Specialist will work
with staff of the Training/HIRD Section located in the newly created Inspectorate and Support Services
Department, serving DWD on a cross-departmental basis.
SCOPE OF WORK
In close liaison with the Training/HRD Section's staff the Training and Institutional Development
Specialist will undertake, but not necessarily limited to,' the following tasks:
a)    Assist in Improving and strengthening the functioning of DWD's TrainingtHRD Section.
b)    Carry out tining need assessments based on performance discrepancies and task analyses for
ail levels of staff; and design a three-year training programme covering all levels of DWD
management.
d)    Carry out short courses in management sldlls.
e)    Provide overall guidance and support to the STWSP training activities.
X)    Cafry out training evaluations in collaboration with heads of sections in order to determine
training effectiveness and impact.
QUALISICATIONS
Ihe Specialist should have a graduate degree in human resource development or related fields, at least
10 years of relevant experience in training and instuonal development (with a significant portion of
that experience in developing countries), and a commitment to contemporary approaches to human
resource development.
DURATiON OF ASSGNMENT
The assignment is for a tot of six -months. The frt two to three months wil be spent on contnous
service with the remaining months to be spent on an intermittent basis, e.g. three visits each of a
month duration, based on an agenda of activities mutualy agreed upon between the DWD, STWSP and
the Speialist prior to each visit.



Anna ll-e
Page '1 of 1
PRELIMINARY TERMS OF REFERENCE
TRAIMNNG AND INSllTUTIONAL DEVELOPMNT SPECIALIST
DIRECTORATE OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
OBJECTiVE
The STWSP Financial Adviser will work with the Project Accountant to strengthen the financial
management of the Project in accordance with the Directorate of Water Development (DWD) financl
procedures and in liaison with DWD's Financial/Administrative Adviser.
SCOPE OF WORK
a)    Review the accounting procedures, make recommendations as necessary, and assist in
implementing any revisions.
b)    Advise and train the staff involved in Project accounts in World Bank disbursement
procedures.
c)    Improve the design of the forms and control books necessary for efficient accounting.
d)    Undertake a feasibitity study on the computerization of the Project account and prepa  TOR
for the design of the accounting and financial information system.
e)    Ensure that the work, whilst being specific to the needs of the Project and World Bank
procedures, is coordinatd/harmnized with the general DWD financial control strategy being
developed through support by the Danida-financed Financial/Administrative Adviser.
QUALFICATIONS
Qualified professional accountant with CPA or equivalent, and with 10 years of relevant experience.
The Adviser should have knowledge in computer application to accounting procedures (uNavision'
and/or other)
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
Two months.



Anna 12
Page 1 of 1
UGAA
SMALL TOWS WATER AND ANOTATION PROJECT
Edmae Sd&do of Dbtmaf
STANDARD
IDA                              EXPECED PROJECT DISBURSEUENJ                       DISBURSEME
CMYEAR                   BYSEMESTER               CUMULATirE       CUMULATIVE %    CUMULATIVE%
.--                 ( -S$00         0 4
FY94
Jun44                          4.00                    4.00                9.0            0
FY0S
Dec44                          2.94                    6.94              16.00          6.00
JunO5                          2.31                    9.25              21.00          10.00  .
FY98
Dec45                          1.97                   1122               26.00          18.00
Jun46                          4.18                   15.40              36.00          30.00
FY97
Dec6                           4.27                   19.67              46.0           42.00
Ju7                            6.23                   24.0               66.00          54.00
FY9B
Dc7                            3.40                   28.30              66.00          62.00
Jun-98                         2.70                   31.00              73.00          70.00
FY99
Dec-8                          336                    34.3               81.00          76.00
iun49                          1.34                   35.70              84.00          86.00
FY2000
Dec-9                          2.35                   38.05              89.00          94.00
Jun-G0                         1.35                   39.40              93.00          98.00
FY2001
Dec-00                         2.z0                   42.30             100.00         100.00



Annex 13
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                                Page I of 4
RURAL TOWNS WATER AN) SANITATION PROGRAMME
SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
PERJFORMANCE hNITORING INQ ICAIORS.
The Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Programme (RTWSP) will adopt performance monitoring
indicators encompassing technical, financial and operational monitoring in order to gauge
achievements against the overall welfare, technical and project targets. The monitoring indicators
over time will reveal how the project performs in the direction of achievement of each of the stated
goals. These indicators should lead to the application of corrective as well as preventive measures
in the management of the project. The indicators are to be derived from periodic reports prepared
at the town office level and passed on the RTWSP Monitoring Unit for analysis and compilation into
highly summarised forms to support planning and policy decisions at the Directorate of Water
Development management level.
The forms to be filled at the town office will seek to collect as much information as possible and will
be updated in successive periods in order to give both the attainment in the additional time as well
as the general/cumulative performance of the project. All sources and outlets are to be monitored
throughout the reporting period in order to determine their operational status and hence the actual
service rate offered by the project facilities to the user community. Ideally attainment of over 75%
operational time of all sources and water outlets is acceptable.
The Monitoring indicators given below are of two categories:
CATEGORY A: PROJECT MONIORING INDICATORS FOR TOWN.
Comprises of indicators for the monitoring of the phased implementation activities in a town
mainly aimed at gauging the rate at which actis chronologically follow each other. The
indicators are to be obtained per town and eventually aggregated for the entire project for the
period prior to handover of the sources. This category includes water supply facilities as well
as health education/sanitation.
CATEGORY B: SCHEME PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS.
These aim at revealing the extent to which the project facilities are rendering services to the
beneficiary community i.e coverage. The number of water facilities alone is not sufficient
in defining coverage to the people. It is the actual time these sources are available for use
by the intending users which is crucial if any impact is to be realised. It is therefore the
intention of the RTWSP to closely monitor the operational status of the sources as shown on
the attached forms. These will also be prepared per town and eventually aggregated for the
entire project/programme.
The monitoring systems will be strengthened at all levels in order to report on the changes of the
project achievements over time in each of the pre-handover phases as well as the operational status
of the facilities during the operation and maintenance phase of the project.



Annex 13   CAEGRY A;
Page 2 of 4   -    .                                     FOR
Activity                       hase          |IuhIP                             l.dUn|  Ty
I.Communities advised about       Promotion                      YIN Tumn                   Prect
prormmrproject
2.Town commatnity a a whole       MobiL;iation                   Y/N Timr                    Project
onised themslves for dialogue
with project team and colected
C.C.P
YIN rme                    FUiaIl
3.C.C.F confimed as being
repr adve of commny
commitment.
Quantity                  Project
4.No. of WUOJ/WSCsWUAs
Quantity rTme                Ficial
S.No. of WUGs/WSC/WUAs who                 .
have tinalisad on CSL & CCC paid
6.sucar of CCC confinned as                                      YIN Time                   Fianial
rpe ve of community                        .
w Dlllga to susta O&M of CSL
7.A of entire town pop.
rpreted by thoe who have
fndised on CSL. paid CCC and
confirmed all procedinp with the    Design                        % rm             Prcoancial
proect at tbis point.
S.No. of point souwes under       Constucti                    Quatity runa                 Tehnica
conuostredn
Boreholes
onn
9.Commencomentof conebvedo                                          rtm.                    Technial
of pipd ws 
lO.Oua  competed                                                    Time           Technical/ProFect
No. of Standpos
No. of Yautp
No. of Houseconnection.
No. of Induial
No. of Springs
No. of Bortoles
No. of Wells
I I.Technical Tranin completed
fir.                                                                 YIN Tue    Proc
Boehole                                                                   Teb Wfare
WellsI
Fied scheme
12.ManamentTraining completed
for contaued sou .                         .                         Timc                   Pret
13.0utlets completd and handed
over                                                                               Pkjes
No. ofSltadposts                                            Te            Tecani
No. of Yatap                                                              Welae
No. of Houseconnectn.
No. of Industl
No. of Sprigs
No. of Boehols
No. of WelS



AP.eX 13
Page 3 of 4
Activity                Phase          Indicator          Type
BE&AL= EFDUlQAl=A
SANITATIO
1.     Health education
l campaigns conducted in    Mobilisation    Y/N Time        Project
the town as a whole.
2.     Follow-up tining of     Mobilisation/   Time, %
WSCs selected           Construction    training done       Project
members by the
project.
3.     No of WSCSI/WUA for
whom improvement Pit    Mobilisation    Quantity/Time    Project/Tochnical
latrines are not
appropriate
4.     Commencement of
nmakng of Sanplats.     Constuction    Time
5.     No of demo latrines
constructed                  *         Quantity, Time       Welfare
6.     No. of Sanplats sold to
the Pop oation.              a          Quantity, Time
7.     Percentage of
Populaton bought             a               %
Sanplats.
8.     No. of Improved
latrines/under               a          Quantity, Time
construction.
9.     No. of Improved              u          Quantity, Time
latrines completed and
being used todate.
10.    Percentage of the entire
town population
represented by those          0            %, Time
who are using
improved latrines.



Annex 13                                                   CAEOX D.
Page 4 of 4                                 SCHEM, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
General indicators
Unit
Water production                                                        m3
Water sold                                                              M
Un-accounted for water                                                  m'
Total pipe length                                                       Km
No. of Standposts                                                       Nos
No. of Yardtaps                                                         Nos
No. of Houseconneotlon.                                                 Nos
No. of Industrial                                                       Nos
No. of Springs                                                          Nos
No. of Boreholes                                                        Nos
No. of Well                                                             Nos
Fnancial Indiatonrs
MULIPLE-POINT WATER SUPPLY
Projected Revenue                                                       Currency
Total Revenue                                                           Currency
Total Operating Cost of which
. wages.
- Maintenance                                                           %
- Operations                                                            %
Balance
Curnency
POIT   E NA   StUPPLY                                                     UY
Highest bonhole operting cost
Lowest borehole operadng cost
Mean borebole opeating cost
Curreny
Currency
Curency
Operathnal indicators
IWTIEI"IT WATER SPY_
No of standpipes with no breakdown                                      Quantity
No of standpipe days lost in breakdown                                  Quantity
No of standpipe days lost in disconnection                              Quantity
No of Yardtap days tost in discoction                                   Quantiy
No of Yartap days lost in breakdown                                     Quantity
No of industriaVinstitution/House connection days lost in disconnection  Quantity
No of Lndustral/insdbutionaldous  connection days lost in breakdown     Quantity
POINT SQURtCE WATER SmMY
No of handpumpdays lost in breakdown                                    Borehole days
No of handpunps with recorded breakdown                                 Quantity
No of handpumps with less than 25% downtime                             Quantty
No of handpums with no downtime                                         Quantity
No of springs with average filling time of 2-3 minute. per 20 litre container  Quantity
No ef springs with filling time of more than 5 minutes per 20 litre container  Quantity



Annex 14
Page I of 2
UGANDA
MALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.    The Borrower's supervision activities would be carried out by the Uban and nstional
Water Supply Deparment of the Dirate for Water Development (DWD), except for th Jinja-
Mjeru component which would be supervised by the PIU at the National Water Sewege
Corporaton (NWSC). Their supevisory fincions would Involve the Ibllowing
(a)   initial review, recorting and forwarding of.
O)    all procment orders,
(Ui)   all disbursement requests,
(lii)  sp       accounts                     ,
(b)    preparation of an annual project implemetaion budge,
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contacts documents,
(d)    preparton of monly fancial steme,
(e)    preparation of semi-nu  progres report by Feduy 15 and Aupst 15 each
ye  on all aspects of project impln
(M    preparation of and participation in a review wo p by Ma*h 1S every ye,
(g)    monitor key performance indicators as detaild in Annex 1S,
(h)    aranging for the annual audits of project accounts and SOEs, and
(I)   liaising with all Bank supervision missions.
2.    In addition to the regular supervision missions to be carried out by IDA In accordance with
the schedule set out below, IDA staff would spend time at headquaters on daling with
coepondence, reviewing and commentig on procuremen documents, disbursement rees,
half-yearly reot and audited accounts. The esmat  amount of time is as follows:
Project Year 1      6 sws
Project Year 2      5 sws
Project Year 3      4 sws
Project Year 4      4 sws
Project Year 5      4 sws
Project Year 6      4 sws
3.    A Mid-term Review by the Govemment and IDA would be held not later d   March 31,
1997. The terms of reference would be prepared by MDA and would be cleared with th
Govenment in advance of the review date. Overall, the Mid-Term Review would examine the
stats of implementation of the project, progress in procurement, disbursements and construction.
It would also Include a review of quanitative and qualitative benefits anticipated from the projec



Annex 14
Page 2 of 2                       Bank Suprvbion Input Inito lKe Acivitl
Apprdd    Acvf                              ExpetdSs                   staf Ipu
Date                                                                  (Sdpw)
Apr1 1994       Proje   ch           Sanitary Engir,                   7.5
Mission             Insdtiuonal Specialist
Proment, Disbursemen
Financial Analyst
tober 1994      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial Analyst     3.0
April 1995       Supervision Mission   Engineer, Finanial Analyst,     4.5
Insttional Specialist
FM6
Octobr 1995     Supervision Mission  Enginer, Financial Anayst         3.0
Apri 1996        Supervision Missio   Engier,FcialAnalyst              4.5
Institiona Speciist
FM7
October 1996     Supervision Mission   Engeer, Fiaial Analyst          3.0
June 1997        Mid-erm Review      Engine, Financial Aniys,         '75
Institutional Specialis,
Procurement, Dibum
FM
October 1997     Supervision missio   Engineer,F ic  Aayst             3.0
Apri 1998        Supervision Mission  Engineer, Financial Analyst      4.5
Institional Speciaist
FY99
October 1998     SupevisIon Mission   Engineer, Financial Analyst      3.0
April 1999       Supervision Mission   Engineer, FinancW Analyst,      4.5
Institutional Specialist
FY2000
October 1999     Supervision Msion   Enginee,Financial Analyst         3.0
April 2000       Supervision Mission   Engineer, Fnncial Analyst       4.5
stional Speciist
FY2001
October 2000     Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial Analyst,    7.5
(Preparadon work    InsituWonal Specialist,
for the Project     Disbursemen, Procurement,
Completion Report)



Annex 15
Page I of I
UGANDA
SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
DOCUMNTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program, Program Preparation for Small Towns and
Sanitation Project, Vol. 1-2, September 1992, COWIconsult
2.    Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program, Appraisal Study for Small Towns and
Sanitation Project, Vol. 1-7, March 1993, COWIconsult.
3.    UNDP Working Paper, Assessment for the Uganda Water and Sanitation Sector
4.    Development Strategy and Action Plan, March 1989, Ministry of Water and Mineral
Development (MWMD).
5.    Applications of Geographical Information Systems in Economic Analysis: A Case Study
of Uganda, 1990, IEBRD.
6.    Report on Water Well Construction Activities in Uganda, November 1987, Ministry of
Water and Mineral Development.
7.    National Planning Strategy Rural Water Supply Program, July 1991, DANID AI. Kruger
Consult AS/NORDIC Consulting Group.
8.    Sector Legislation Review, May 1993, MWMEP/Mott MacDonald International
9.    Orgniztion and Management of the Water Development Department, 1989,
MWMD/Carl Bro International



iORD 25071
SUDAN                                                      AND                       WA UGANDA
-4' ~~~                            ~           SDA                                                            SMALL TOWNS WATER 
s / a ~~~AND SANITATION PROJECT
0     PROJECT TOWNS
KUb.% ~ ,WPIGI  RURAL TOWNS WATER &
8boSANITIATION PROGRAM
(';  NATIONALWATER&
r-"' SEWERAGE CORPORATION
<   Nb -.78  \  KOTItOl  s \           RIVERS
T.   f                          X    r                                       \          w                 .   FALLS
ZAIRE                                                                                                                     *   FERRIES
N                            NEBBI        /                                        FoSMOROTO              PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
UNSURFACED ROADS
/F/ J  RAILROADS
-    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
/  oiASIND                                                                                DI'-';  ShfOtOdO  OT  DlSTRiCT HEADQUARTERS
*    NATiONAL CAPITAL
HOiMA .or                   ^4o-7         Krso             .;>>         ,pFCHORWA rJ                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-  PI  _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ktd~~~~~~~~~~~iM nao . k 
t   /   e \           {          h<tosvse:               %  }. i3AH   r              . d nomz eoincide WHh Wnct Hecdqu:rhil wth ene5Dstd nm50coied.oit Ditoi Hedqurtas. ithon
/i > \KtKIBOGA   WWERO     KAUL1.I              ,                              mo o abul eon: Foert Portol istDitiodqortsit ooIeDi
rJBALE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEO5                                                        0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                        (JtMIroco
i-nke /tX  ¢    A   X  olRSAKAA >,A                               |                            H   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A SUDAN a
GANG ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~
4~~~ LAK VI CTORIA                                                                                                         k r GAN-DA      =    f
i KUNGl    t 1                                                                                                                       Z t4AIRE  A ¢f
1     KISOR    *           To n,...
>>)}_fiPZyt  lludemi-dSncvbddTANZANIA 
T.                                                                   LAKE_VICTO RI _0 .05 oo 
I             ] co c cf c - irdRWANDA \ tcq"~w   tTAZA-
JULY 1993



