Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2583 UG
                   Development Credit Agreement
            (Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 3, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2583 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by National
Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
NWSC a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NWSC;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "DWD" means the Borrower's Directorate of Water
Development;
      (b)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (c)   "MOLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local
Government;
      (d)   "NWSC" means National Water and Sewerage Corporation, a
parastatal organization of the Borrower established in accordance
with the National Water and Sewerage Corporation Decree, (Decree
No. 34 of 1972) (NWSC Decree);
      (e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 22, 1990,
January 4, 1991, September 9, 1991, December 24, 1991, January 15,
1992, November 18, 1993 and December 28, 1993 between the Borrower
and the Association;
      (g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NWSC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (h)   "Special Account" means either of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Ugandan Shilling" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (j)   "Water and Sanitation Committee" or "WSC" means a
committee consisting of representatives/delegates of the WUG;
      (k)   "Water User Association" or "WUA" means an association
formed by water user groups;
      (l)   "Water User Group" or "WUG" means a community of
beneficiaries of one or more particular source of water and
associated sanitation facilities; and
      (m)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual to be prepared
by the Borrower to describe the mechanism and procedures to be
followed in the implementation of the Project, including, inter
alia, the specifications of the role of DWD, WSCs, WUAs, WUGs,
district administrations, model-contracts, guidelines for the
opening and maintenance of accounts by the WUAs, for tariff-setting,
and specification on monitoring procedures and indicators.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 30,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and C of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
(Special Account A) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, Special Account A shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, cause NWSC to open and maintain in dollars a special
deposit account (Special Account B) in a commercial bank, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Account B shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Page  4
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 2004 and ending December 1, 2033. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 1, 2013 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. NWSC is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out, through DWD, Parts A and C of
                   the Project with due diligence and efficiency
                   and in conformity with appropriate
                   administrative and financial practices and shall
                   provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                   facilities, services and other resources
                   required for such Parts of the Project; and
            (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Development
                   Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NWSC
                   to perform all its obligations set forth in the
                   Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable NWSC to
                   perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
Page  5
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) make available to NWSC the
equivalent of 50% of SDR 15,800,000 from the proceeds of the Credit
in the form of equity contribution to NWSC's capital; and (ii)
relend the equivalent of 50% of SDR 15,800,000 from the proceeds of
the Credit to NWSC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NWSC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, and, which shall
include, inter alia, repayment of principal in 25 years, including
five years of grace, and interest at a rate equal to the prevailing
minimum rate charged by commercial banks in Uganda for commercial
loans to companies, plus three percent (3%).
      (d)   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
B of the Project shall be carried out by NWSC pursuant to Section
2.04 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Borrower's ministries and parastatal bodies pay
NWSC for water charges promptly after the billing date and in any
event to settle any arrears by the end of each fiscal year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall complete: (i) not later than
March 31, 1995, a district organization assessment and planning
study for one district ; and (ii) not later than September 30, 1995,
a participatory organization assessment and strategic planning study
of DWD.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause DWD to carry out public
hygiene education in consultation with MOH and the district
administrations, and conduct two workshops to review progress, not
later than November 30, 1995 and November 30, 1998 respectively. DWD
shall prepare and furnish the Association a plan for the
implementation of the first workshop not later than August 31, 1995.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall (a) establish and maintain,
in DWD, for the entire duration of the Project, adequate staffing
for Project implementation consisting, inter alia, of a project
coordinator, a procurement officer, a socio-economist/monitor and an
accountant, and (b) employ a technical advisor for a minimum of two
years from the Effective Date.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall hold a Project launch
workshop in cooperation with NWSC, not later than three months after
the Effective Date.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to
enable prompt and adequate quarterly adjustments or, if required,
more frequent adjustments of water tariffs as proposed by NWSC.
Page  6
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall establish, by January 31,
1995, a system of spare parts distribution for handpumps and other
water and sanitation technologies, including, inter alia, the
procurement, storage, distribution through the private sector,
logistics of retailing and pricing.
      Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall conduct, not later than
March 31, 1997, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of
the Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the review shall, inter alia, cover the implementation
and management aspects of the Project, implementation procedures in
each of the towns, establishment and functioning of the WUGs and
WUAs, progress made by the Project, performance and use of technical
assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart staff, the
status and results of training, reporting, accounting and audit
performance, disbursement procedures and the sustainability of the
Project.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to the mid-term review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in complying with Project implementation.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review.
      Section 3.12. The Borrower shall prepare and implement
resettlement programs, satisfactory to the Association, duly
approved by the appropriate agencies of the Borrower, for the
relocation, including compensation, of all families living on the
sites selected for carrying out Part A of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
Page  7
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   NWSC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NWSC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   The NWSC Decree shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of NWSC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement; and
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NWSC or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified namely that
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has prepared a draft Implementation Manual;
      (b)   the Borrower has established a legal and regulatory
framework for the functioning of WSCs and WUAs; and
      (c)   the Borrower has settled all overdue debts to NWSC.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
Page  8
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by NWSC, and is legally binding
upon NWSC in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 through 3.09 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the
date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Borrower's Minister responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O.Box 8147
            Kampala
            Uganda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINSEC                    61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                         By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                         By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Parts A and C of the Project
(1) Civil Works                6,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                25% of local
                                                expenditures
(2) Equipment and Materials    1,600,000        100%
(3) Consultants' Services                       100%
    and Training               3,700,000
(4) Operating Costs              500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
    Part B of the Project
(5) Civil Works                8,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                25% of local
                                                expenditures
(6) Equipment and Materials    1,100,000        100%
(7) Consultants' Services                       100%
    and Training               4,000,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(8)  Operating Costs             100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(9) Refunding of PPF:                           Amount due
                                                pursuant to
    (a)  for Parts A             900,000        Section 2.02 (d)
         and C of the                           of this Agreement
         Project
    (b)  for Part B of           200,000
         the Project
(10) Unallocated:
Page  10
    (a)  for Parts A and       1,600,000
         C of the Project
    (b)  for Part B of         1,800,000
         the Project          __________
         TOTAL                30,400,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means expenditures for office
supplies and office communications services, minor office equipment,
utilities, fuel, maintenance and insurance of vehicles, including
motorcycles, used for the Project, and Project staff performance and
field allowances approved by the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
      (a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
      (b)   expenditures under Categories 5 through 8, unless:
            (i)    the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
                   on behalf of the Borrower and NWSC;
           (ii)    NWSC has provided the Association with any
                   overdue audit accounts; and
          (iii)    NWSC has submitted evidence of land rights for
                   the sites required for the Project in Jinja and
                   Njeru.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve health
conditions through better water supply, excreta disposal, waste
water management, and public hygiene; (ii) reduce poverty and
improve the lot of women; and (iii) reduce environmental degradation
through better waste management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Small towns
1.    Rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation facilities in
the Towns of Busia, Kalisizo, Kyotera, Lugazi, Luwero, Lyantonde,
Malaba, Ntungamo, Rakai, Rukungiri, and Wobulenzi including:
            (i)    Construction of water supply facilities; and
           (ii)    Rehabilitation and/or construction of sanitation
                   and drainage facilities.
Page  11
2.    Design of water supply and sanitation works, training, hygiene
education, technical assistance, studies, acquisition of vehicles,
equipment, spare parts, chemicals, and rehabilitation of office
buildings.
Part B:     Jinja - Njeru
1.    Rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation facilities in
Jinja and Njeru, inter alia, through:
      (a)   replacement of pipes, fittings, valves, hydrants, and
related equipment;
      (b)   rehabilitation of water treatment works and
rehabilitation and/or modification of the raw water intake
structure; and
      (c)   upgrading or construction of pit latrines and upgrading
or construction of septic tanks and public latrines.
2.    Expansion of the water distribution network to serve parts of
Jinja, parts of Njeru and other adjacent areas.
3.    Construction, rehabilitation or expansion of sewers and waste
water treatment works in Jinja and Njeru.
4.    Hygiene education, training, technical assistance,
computerization of billing, studies, including investment studies
for Kampala, Entebbe and Gulu, and acquisition of vehicles,
equipment, spare parts, and chemicals.
Part C:     Institution Strengthening
      Strengthening of the financial and management capacity of the
DWD, the user organizations, and the district and urban governmental
institutions, through training, technical assistance, studies,
workshops, preparation of training materials, acquisition of
vehicles, office furniture and equipment, training equipment, and
rehabilitation of office buildings.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed priced contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
Page  12
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Uganda may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts (a) for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $5,500,000, (b) for latrine slabs estimated to cost
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $200,000, and (c) for furniture, supplies, chemicals,
teaching materials, equipment, spare parts and other minor
equipment, estimated to cost $100,000 or less per contract up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Civil works for spring protection, hand dug wells,
installation and surround for handpumps, latrines, septic tanks and
other minor civil works for individual contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally at
the district level, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Office furniture and supplies, chemicals, teaching materials,
minor equipment and spare parts estimated to cost $20,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 may
be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.    Drilling of boreholes under Part A of the Project, may, with
the approval of the Association, be procured on the basis of force
account, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
5.    Handpumps of a standard design suitable for community
maintenance, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, may
be procured from the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF).
6.    Desktop computers, software and peripheral equipment, and
urgently required vehicles, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$650,000 may, with the prior approval of the Association, be
procured through the services of the Inter-Agency Procurement
Service Office of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  13
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants' Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection firm, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
General
1.    DWD, in consultation with NWSC, shall prepare and furnish to
the Association semi-annual progress reports of the Project not
later than February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.    The Borrower shall hold, not later than March 15 in each year,
an annual implementation workshop to review the operational,
financial and institutional performance of the Project.
Page  14
3.    In order to facilitate procurement of works and goods required
under the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than one month
after the Effective Date, establish a procurement committee
comprising representatives of DWD, NWSC, the Central Tender Board
and other relevant organizations.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that MOH, through their personnel
stationed in the districts, shall assist DWD, in sanitation and
hygiene education.
Part A of the Project
5.    Water User Groups (WUGs) and Water User Associations (WUAs)
shall have the main responsibility for the operation, maintenance
and replacement of the water and sanitation facilities provided
under the Project. WUGs shall be represented by an elected committee
referred to as Water and Sanitation Committee (WSC), which shall be
responsible for revenue collection, hiring of personnel, collection
of tariffs, establishment and monitoring of bank accounts, operation
and maintenance, and ensuring the overall sustainability of the
system.
6.    DWD shall be the primary source of technical support to WUGs
and WUAs for operation, maintenance and replacement (OMR) and shall
remain accountable for OMR of the water and sanitation facilities in
cases where WUGs and WUAs should cease to function satisfactorily,
until responsibility for operating the water supply system shall be
passed on to the district level. DWD shall also be responsible for
monitoring the performance of WUGs and WUAs and for determining the
quality and standards of construction.
7.    The Borrower shall, prior to the execution of any civil works
contract, furnish the Association with satisfactory evidence that
(a) an agreement between DWD and the WSC in the town concerned has
been concluded and (b) land rights for the site of the Project have
been secured.
8.    The Borrower shall, in consultation with MOLG, ensure that the
district administrations and urban authorities of the Borrower shall
(a) assist in the establishment of WUGs and WUAs, (b) carry out
hygiene education activities, and (c) in case of internal disputes
in WUGs and WUAs, constitute the appropriate authority for appeals
by WUGs and WUAs.
Part B of the Project
9.    In the implementation of Part B of the Project, the Borrower
(a) shall ensure that NWSC is fully responsible for providing OMR
functions for water supply and sewerage through revenue collected
from tariffs; and (b) shall cause NWSC, MOLG, MOH, and Jinja
Municipal Council to collaborate in upgrading or construction of pit
latrines, septic tanks and public latrines and for hygiene
education.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 4, for Special Account A and Categories 5 through 8, for
Special Account B, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required forthe Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 for Special Account A and $1,000,000 for
Page  15
Special Account B respectively to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account concerned pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Accounts such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Accounts
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Accounts
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
Page  16
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
