                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                      Report No: 27529

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (PPFI-P6601 PPFI-P6602 TF-20115 IDA-25830)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.4 MILLION (US$42.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                        FOR THE

                     SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                     December 19, 2003




Water and Urban 1
Tanzania & Uganda Country Department
Africa Regional Office

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective )

               Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (Ush)
                    Ush1174 = US$ 1 (October 29, 1993
                      US$ 1 = Ush 1980 (June 30, 2003)

                    FISCAL YEAR
                   July 1 -  June 30

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DWD         Directorate of Water Development
FY          Fiscal Year
GOU         Government of Uganda
MOFPED      Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development
MTR         Mid Term Review
NWSC        National Water and Sewerage Corporation
OMR         Operations, Maintenance and Replacement
PO          Private Operator
PRSC        Poverty Reduction Support Credit
RTWSP       Rural Town Water and Sanitation Program
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
UWSA        Urban Water and Sewerage Authorities
WUG/WUA     Water User Group/Association

             Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
           Country Director     Judy O'Connor
            Sector Manager      Jaime Biderman
          Task Team Leader:     Solomon Alemu

                                           UGANDA
                                 SMALL TOWNS WATER


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      42

Project ID: P002957                                                  Project Name: SMALL TOWNS WATER
Team Leader: Solomon Alemu                                           TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: SMALL TOWNS WATER                                        L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P6601; PPFI-P6602;
                                                                                                     TF-20115; IDA-25830
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Sanitation (32%); Sewerage (32%); Water supply (32%);
                            Sub-national government administration (2%); Central government
                            administration (2%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Other communicable diseases (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (P); Gender (S);
                            Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/14/1990                                     Effective: 08/01/1994                08/01/1995
     Appraisal: 04/26/1993                                         MTR: 03/31/1997                  03/24/1999
      Approval: 03/17/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA/MINISTRY OF WATER; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           UGANDA/LAND & ENVIRONMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Stephen Weissman
Team Leader at ICR:             Solomon Alemu                                  Gerhard Tschannerl
ICR Primary Author:             Wambui Gichuri


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The broad objective of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to support the
Government of Uganda's (GOU) economic recovery program by extending the rehabilitation and upgrading
of water supply and sanitation services to towns that had not been covered. This was expected to contribute
to enhanced family, public and environmental health, increased labor productivity and alleviation of the
traditional burden of women in the provision of water and sanitation services. The specific objectives of
the project were to: (a) improve health conditions through better water supply, excreta disposal, waste
management, and public hygiene; (b) alleviate poverty and improve the lot of women; and (c) reduce
environmental degradation through better waste management.

The project was to provide improved and sustainable water supply and sanitation (WSS) services in two
groups of towns: (a) the 11 small towns ( Busia, Kalisizo, Kyotera, Lugazi, Luwero, Lyantonde, Malaba,
Ntungamo, Rakai, Rukungiri, and Wobulenzi), where most of the town populations drew water from
boreholes with hand pumps, springs and traditional sources such as rivers and lakes, to be implemented
under the Directorate of Water Development (DWD); and (b) the rehabilitation of the water supply and
sewerage services in Jinja, to be expanded to include Njeru in a greater Jinja-Njeru service area
implemented by National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC). Improved services would be
provided through: (a) new construction, rehabilitation and/or expansion of water supply and sanitation
facilities; (b) hygiene education related to water supply and sanitation; (c) community participation in
planning, implementation, operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation facilities; and (d)
institutional strengthening, technical assistance and training for the organizations in the sector.

The broad development objective of supporting the GOU's economic recovery program by extending the
rehabilitation and upgrading of water supply and sanitation services to the selected urban areas was
relevant and consistent with the strategy of re-building the country following the exceptional circumstances
arising from many years of political and economic turmoil. Within the framework of the economic
recovery program, the GOU had initiated efforts to address the grave WSS situation in the country by
                                                                                        1


issuing, in 1989, the following two key documents: (a) the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Development Strategy and Action Plan, and (b) Organization and Management of the Water
Development Department. Implementation of the recommendations of these two studies provided the basis
for formulation of three basic national programs: (a) the urban program to be implemented by NWSC,
focusing on the large towns; (b) the National Rural Water and Sanitation Program to be implemented by
the DWD; and (c) the Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program (RTWSP) to be implemented by the
DWD. Cr. 2583-UG was an innovative and timely response in support of the RTWSP that was planned to
provide WSS services for one of the groups of towns packaged by the GOU from among 60 priority towns.
This project was to be the first one in the program to follow the newly established policies and guidelines
for the provision of improved water supply and sanitation services in urban areas outside the responsibility
of the NWSC. The project would thus be the model for a demand driven approach whereby communities
participate in the financing, planning, implementation and management of WSS systems.

The project was designed to complement the Bank's assistance to economic recovery and poverty
alleviation by supporting GOU's efforts to accelerate growth and employment as well as delivery of public
services. In pursuit of this strategy, the Bank expected to continue its support for the expansion of water
supply and sanitation projects in low-income urban areas and rural growth centers, institution building,
manpower development and improvements in administrative and financial management. Bank involvement
was expected to: (a) assist GOU in developing a policy framework for the sustainable provision of water



                                                      - 2 -

and sanitation services to small and medium sized towns; (b) initiate appropriate institutional and policy
reforms for the WSS sector and provide technical assistance to DWD; (c) provide guidance for the
development of institutions responsible for sustainable service delivery; and (d) demonstrate the integration
of top-down and bottom up approaches involving user communities in planning, implementation and
management of WSS facilities.

The three specific project objectives were relevant, but rather broad and probably overly ambitious given
the institutional capacity existing at the time of project preparation; achievement of these objectives was
also not easily measurable. There was a mismatch between the specific objectives and the components.
Two of the objectives - improve health conditions through better water supply, excreta disposal, waste
water management, and public hygiene; and reduce environmental degradation through better waste
management - had a heavy waste management emphasis which was not adequately supported by the
components and allocated budget. In the small towns in particular, the budget allocated for waste
management was only for provision of two vacuum tankers for desludging cesspit and septic tanks and
sanplats in a few of the towns. Further, given the limited institutional capacity at the time of project
preparation, it would have been appropriate to include a broader institutional development objective beyond
what was planned under Part C which focused on DWD, and was limited to provision of equipment,
training, office rehabilitation and provision of furniture. Part C was not geared towards addressing the
more substantive aspects of reform that would assist in sustaining the systems to be newly built,
rehabilitated and expanded.

1/ Safe water coverage in small towns was estimated as 15% and water-borne and water related diseases was a common
occurrence (SAR Page 5, Par. 1.10)

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project were not revised. However, at MTR, the project was restructured, focusing on
scaling down Part B (Jinja/Njeru). The Team could have used the opportunity presented by the MTR to
re-define the objectives, ensure a better alignment between the objectives and components, and to provide
for a better budget distribution to address the sanitation objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

Cr. 2583-UG provided funds for three main components:

Part A: Rehabilitation, expansion and in most cases new construction of water supply and sanitation
facilities in the following 11 towns: Busia, Kalisizo, Kyotera , Lugazi, Luweero, Lyantonde, Malaba,
                                                                   2


Ntungamo, Rakai, Rukungiri, and Wobulenzi, including civil works, provision of equipment and materials,
consulting services, technical assistance and training and operating costs.

Part B: civil works for rehabilitation of water supply systems including the treatment works, replacement
of pipes to reduce leakage, expansion of the water supply system to parts of Jinja and Njeru; rehabilitation
and expansion of the sewerage system in Jinja; studies for expansion of water supply systems in major
towns (Kampala and Gulu), provision of equipment and materials, consulting services, technical assistance,
training and operating costs.

Part C: Institutional Strengthening: This component included the provision of training, technical
assistance, studies, workshops, preparation of training materials, vehicles, office furniture and equipment,
training equipment and rehabilitation of office buildings.



                                                         - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions were made to the objectives of the components. However, the scope of Part B (Jinja/Njeru)
was restructured and scaled down significantly following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review
(MTR) of March 1999. The restructuring was driven by the need to: (a) improve the sustainability of this
component, (b) address NWSC's poor financial situation arising from a combination of poor commercial
management and policies, high fixed costs, high debt obligations, and (c) the need to urgently finance the
large cost overrun of the Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 2124-UG) that had closed in June 1998. It was
clear that the large investment initially proposed under Part B would not have generated the additional cash
flows needed for debt service.

Following a GOU request to the Bank to finance this cost overrun, the Bank employed an independent
engineer to ascertain the origin of the cost overrun, the validity of the claims by contractors, and the
potential eligibility for Bank financing. The independent review concluded that the cost overrun was the
result of: (a) a combination of variation orders due to significant design revisions during project
implementation; (b) price variations due to significant delays in implementation following design revisions
and bad weather conditions related to the El Nino phenomenon; (c) the addition of a sub-component that
was not in the initial project description, but fully in line with the project objective; and (d) interest on
unpaid bills. The independent assessment further concluded that a total of US$7.5 million, excluding
interest on late payment, could be eligible for Bank financing.

The Mid Term Review also recommended that: (a) NWSC implements a financial improvement program
aimed at reducing its high fixed costs and debt obligations, and improving planning of extension programs
to better match its financial capacity and commercial objectives; and (b) GOU be requested to freeze
NWSC's debt service obligations accrued as of end of FY99 to help NWSC finance retrenchment
packages, widen the customer base and contribute to the capital investment programme. The GOU and
NWSC succeeded in implementing these recommendations.

2/ The town of Kyotera was dropped due to budget limitations. The project was, however, able to finance: (a) drilling of 2
wells to supplement the small piped system developed by a local church, (b) construction of one new town office, 1 km of
drainage channel and 2 No. public latrines, and (c) provision of 4 No. refuse bunkers.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project's quality at entry is assessed on the basis of: (a) consistency of objectives with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and government priorities; (b) the Bank's safeguard policies; (c) quality of
design; and (d) reasonableness of assumptions regarding relevant external risks.

Consistency of objectives with the CAS and government priorities: The project objectives were consistent
with the CAS and with GOU's priorities of poverty reduction through rapid economic growth, employment
and improved social services.

Bank's Safeguard Policies: The project has a positive impact on the environment by providing safe piped
water and waste disposal facilities. The safeguard rating is thus satisfactory.

Quality of design: The project as originally designed, was a timely and innovative initiative that marked the
beginning of a search for a new way of doing business in the sector, in the face of limited impacts of supply
driven provision of services that dominated the sector at the time. It was the first small towns project in the
country and the region and thus there were no precedents or experiences to be shared. It was also a


                                                             - 4 -

pioneering project, being the first to apply the newly developed Policies and Guidelines. However, even
though the project showed a number of innovative and visionary features, quality of design was found to be
less than satisfactory due to the following conceptual gaps: (a) there was no detailed baseline data and
information against which to measure project impacts; (b) no economic or financial analyses were carried
out, not even for Part B where Jinja already existed as a revenue earning entity; (c) demand assessment was
inadequate and led to a project design that was based on a management model that was more suited to a
rural rather than an urban setting, particularly in the small towns. Due to these weaknesses, overall
                                                                               3


quality of design is rated unsatisfactory.

Project restructuring at mid-term review succeeded in: (a) scaling down Part B which led to significant
savings that were used to finance the cost overrun under the Second Water Supply Project; (b) putting
NWSC on a program to improve its financial performance; and (c) re-orienting the project to respond to
users demand for connections, away from the earlier designed program of developing stand posts. The
approach for sanitation also changed, moving away from the construction of 800 sanplats which would not
have had much impact in the towns where there was already about 85% latrine coverage. Instead, the
project adopted a broader range of demand based environmental sanitation options that included support
for development of drainage, solid waste facilities, public latrines as well as training, capacity building,
hygiene and sanitation promotion. Town authorities selected options to be supported, based on their
sanitation plans and a limited budget of US$0.66 million for the 11 towns (US$60,000 per town); this
budget was clearly inadequate to address the investment and institutional issues prevailing in the towns.

On the whole, the restructuring following the MTR emerged as the turning point for the project and is the
main reason that the project has been successfully implemented. The restructuring however fell short of
adequately addressing the other short-comings of project design such as: (a) poor alignment between the
objectives, components and budget allocation; (b) the poor balance between production and distribution
infrastructure and over-design of the systems; (c) providing more resources for sanitation; and (d) carrying
out financial and economic analysis to better justify the investments, particularly for Part B.

Reasonableness of the assumptions: The main risks associated with the project centered on institutional
issues, arising mainly from a new project approach. These were: (a) the capacity of the community
organizations to effectively participate in implementation, lack of clarity in their roles and responsibilities
and potential conflicts due to overlapping functions; (b) potential conflict between central and local
governments in the implementation of GOU's decentralization policy; (c) capacities of the local
governments in project implementation, and (d) efficiency and accountability of the lower level local
authorities. All were reasonable assumptions but the project did not define components to adequately
address these substantive institutional issues.

3/ This particular aspect was however, not altogether surprising for a project designed at a time when services provision was
largely supply driven and operating WSS services on commercial principles in such small towns had not taken root.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project had three objectives, which correspond to its three outputs.

Objective 1: Improve health conditions through better water supply, excreta disposal, waste management,
and public hygiene.




                                                              - 5 -

There was no baseline data and information to provide for a description of health conditions prior to the
project. The contributions of the various components towards better health have, therefore, been assessed
based on their effectiveness against the urban sub-sector goals and the water sector in general.

Outputs: The project has completed construction of piped water supply systems in 10 small towns (Busia,
Kalisizo, Lugazi, Luweero, Lyantonde, Malaba, Ntungamo, Rakai, Rukungiri, and Wobulenzi) mainly
serving: (a) core area populations through about 2570 connections and 100 kiosks; and (b) populations in
the fringe areas through 171 point sources. All rehabilitation/expansion of the WSS facilities in the larger
towns of Jinja/Njeru under the restructured component description have also been completed and 1500
connections been installed. On the community water and sanitation facilities in peri-urban Jinja/Njeru, an
additional 80 connections and 4 stand posts were installed. The rehabilitation works in Jinja/Njeru have led
to a reduction in UFW from 57% to 28%. Quality of construction is good in all the systems.

The project also made selected sanitation improvements by financing construction of 45 public toilets,
14km of storm drains, provision of 44 refuse bunkers, and supply of three tractors and trailers for solid
waste management. Hygiene and sanitation promotion was carried out in all towns. Eleven motorcycles
and 33 bicycles were provided to facilitate hygiene and sanitation promotion.

Outcomes: The Independent Participatory Impact Study (the Study) concluded that the project had
                                                                                   4


achieved more components and provided improved water services to more people than originally planned.
The investments have provided new water supply service to about 161,000 people in excess of the SAR
target of 126,000. In addition, the project has improved service conditions for the estimated 30,000 people
who had access to improved supply at appraisal. Currently, the total population with access to improved
water supply service is estimated at 191,000, in excess of the SAR target of 156,000.

4/ An independent participatory impact study was carried out to: (i) assess project impacts against the original objectives, (ii)
propose potential aspects of the project that will impact sustainability of the outputs and mitigation measures for consolidating
the achievements of the project; and (iii) outline lessons that will help improve performance of the small towns water and
sanitation sub-sector.

Table 1: Town Populations with new water supply service from project investments


                             No. served                No. served               No. served               Total
      Town              through domestic             through kiosks           through point            population
                            connections                                           sources                served
      Busia                            4,746                   3,697                    9,600                18043
      Kalisizo                          4979                   2,265                    3,300                10544
      Lugazi                           9,289                   3,051                    5,100                17440
      Luweero                          5,811                   2,678                    5,000                13489
      Lyantonde                        2,135                   4,029                         -               6,164
      Malaba                           3,700                   2,356                         -                6056
      Ntungamo                         3,168                   3,067                   13,500                19735
      Rakai                               767                  1,939                         -               2,706
      Rukungiri                        3,472                   3,241                   10,800                17513
      Wobulenzi                        1,428                   5,620                         -               7,048
      Jinja/Njeru                    38,469                    3,826                         0              42,295
      Total                          77,964                  35,769                    47,300             161,033




                                                                - 6 -

The Study revealed that town residents now have a better quality and a higher quantity of water supply and
noted a significant shift from point sources towards piped water usage; currently, about 70% of the
households, compared to 5% at the start of the project depend on piped water as their primary source. In
some towns, like Wobulenzi, the large majority of residents are depending on piped water supply.
Residents perceive piped water as good, near and cheap. The remaining 30% of the served population
accesses services through improved point sources. The Study also found that an estimated 3%, compared to
68% at the start of the project were using unimproved point sources. The Study observed that "people
value the water they are receiving for its goodness and think it is conveniently placed and affordable."
Residents also perceive the quality of water as good in terms of taste, smell and colour. Overall, per capita
consumption was estimated at 20 lcd at yard taps and house connections and 10lcd at kiosks and point
sources. These consumption levels are consistent with the benchmarks recommended by the Urban Water
Supply and Sanitation Reform Strategy.

Twenty four hour water supply is now available due to: (a) development of good quality water supply
infrastructure; (b) customer friendly commercial and financial policy that has subsidized installation of
connections, from USh135,000 to USh50,000 per connection; (c) a flexible approach that allows for
provision of a range of options to serve the various types of users and responding to demand for
connections (the total number for the 10 small towns and Jinja/Njeru is about 4150, when none had been
planned under the project); and (d) implementation of a model that ensures sustainable management of the
water supply systems - operations have been contracted out to local private operators since July 20015 and
the systems are being managed and operated well. The Study identified Wobulenzi as the worst performer;
this also happens to be the only town from among the 10 whose water supply system is still under the
management of a WUA. Systems in the other towns are currently managed by Private Operators (POs).
The rehabilitated and expanded Jinja/Njeru system is being well managed by NWSC under an Area
Performance Contract with the area staff.

The ease with which water can now be obtained has simplified the task of cleaning latrines and most
households reported cleaning their latrines daily. Most households could also name a waterborne disease
                                                  6


associated with dirty hands. The most common hygiene practice identified was washing hands followed by
washing clothes. Most of the respondents were also aware of the role that good sanitation plays in the
prevention of disease. Though not based on a rigorous analysis that directly links improved services from
the project to improved health, it can be reasonably expected that availability of improved water quality,
quantity and reliability, alongside prevalence of good hygiene practice as reported by the Study, would lead
to improved health among residents especially the poor who relied mainly on unimproved water sources.

The Study identified the need to maintain the public's exposure to health education, hygiene and sanitation
promotion.

Achievement: Achievement of this objective is considered to be satisfactory.

Objective 2: Alleviate poverty and improve the lot of women.
The first Participatory Poverty Assessment of 1998/99 identified lack of safe water as a major problem for
poor people. Inadequate water supply is associated with: (a) high costs to low-income groups which affect
household incomes; (b) high economic costs for those who fall ill and associated costs of treatment and
income foregone; and (c) the physical effort and time spent to fetch and carry water for long hours.
Availability of safe and reliable water supply would therefore contribute to poverty reduction through: (a)
expenditure savings due to reduction in average price of water when it is provided through well managed
public systems rather than through vendors; (b) reduced incidence of water-borne diseases which allows



                                                     - 7 -

poor households to spend money on other household items; (c) reduced distances to sources and collection
time and applying the time saved to economic or social activities; and (d) directly or indirectly supporting
establishment of industrial and commercial activities.

Outcomes: Most of the town populations drew water from boreholes with hand pumps, springs and
traditional sources such as rivers and lakes, and from point sources. Without the project, average price was
about USh100 per 20-litre jerrican, ranging from USh 50 ­ 200. Water is now widely available and prices
have reduced to an average of USh 25 per jerrican, ranging from USh. 17 ­ 38 with a mode of USh.20.
About 70% of the served population is obtaining water for between Ush.17 ­ 24 per jerrican. The average
price of water from the systems operated by the POs ranges from USh1000 ­ 1910/m3. It is USh870 in
Jinja/Njeru. As a consequence of improved access, time spent collecting water and distances to sources
have also reduced significantly: (a) about 70% of the households now spend about 15mins to fetch water
and are within 50m of a safe water source compared to only 13% "without" project; (b) 23% now spend 1
hour compared to 47% "without project". Six percent (6%) of the population still spends 2.5 hours
compared to 40% "without project". The current situation was summed up this way by respondents from
Malaba, Wobulenzi, Jinja/Njeru: "We used to collect water from 2 to 5km away, now the distance is
reduced to a few meters....we used to buy a jerrican of water from vendors at USh100 ­ 200, sometimes
water from unprotected sources."

Table 2: Time spent collecting water, with and without project (% of population)

   Town          15mins                          1 hour                   2.5 hours
               Without       With project     Without     With           Without      With
                project                       project     project        project      project
Jinja/Njeru            8               84           36              13           56            3
Malaba                19               60           48              38           33            2
Ntungamo               7               66           26              22           67           12
Rakai                 26               50           53              30           21           18
Rukungiri              6               82           70              18           24            0
Wobulenzi             15               83           46              16           39            1
Average               13               70           47              23           40            6


Sale of water has provided some form of employment for town residents as caretakers of yard taps and
kiosks (e.g. in Wobulenzi which has 31 kiosks). The Study found that a number of caretakers and kiosk
attendants especially from Wobulenzi, which has been in operation since 1998, had acquired starting
capital for small businesses such as tailoring from the sale of water. The Study also noted an increase in
livestock rearing through zero grazing as well as poultry rearing in Wobulenzi and Jinja/Njeru. Larger
investments, for example the meatpacking factory in Lyantonde and the bus park in Busia are being
planned as a result of availability of a reliable water supply.

The Study found that the main drawers of water in the towns were women and children. It is therefore this
category of people that has benefited most in terms of reduction in the burden associated with collecting
water. It is also their time that has been freed as a result, to engage in other social and economic activities.
Children now have more time to study and arrive early at school as observed by a parent from Malaba -
"Our children have time to study and no longer quarrel and fight because water is available in the
compound."

The project has also made steps to empower women by: (a) ensuring their representation on the Water
Supply and Sewerage Boards at the Town Councils; (b) including them in training activities carried out



                                                       - 8 -

under the project; and (c) providing them with opportunities as managers/caretakers of kiosks and yard taps
which has further helped some of them to raise capital from water sales and to diversify into other
economic activities. The POs have also employed women in key positions.

Achievement: Achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory.

Objective 3: Reduce environmental degradation through better waste management.

As envisaged in the SAR, the proposed investments were not expected to result in significant raw water
abstraction. The small towns piped supply systems are currently producing only 5200m3/day (less than
2million m3/yr). The rehabilitation/expansion works in Jinja/Njeru did not result in increased abstraction;
instead more water was made available for distribution through rehabilitation of the transmission mains,
which reduced UFW from about 57% to 28%. Wastewater is satisfactorily treated and discharged.

Substantial improvements have been made in the performance of the sewage treatment ponds in Jinja. As a
result of routine maintenance made possible by the purchase of the right equipment through the project,
compliance to standards has improved and so has the treatment efficiency. The percentage of samples with
BOD5>50mg/l now stands at 45% compared to 67% without project. There were also no samples
registered with a TSS > 100mg/l as compared to the "without project" scenario when all the samples had a
TSS > 100mg/l. The treatment efficiencies of BOD5, TSS and faecal coliforms are greater than 60% for
both the treatment ponds in Kirinya and Kimata Sewage Treatment Works.

Within the limited budget of US$0.66 million provided for sanitation improvements in the small towns, the
project financed construction of 45 public toilets and 14km of storm drains, supply of 45 refuse bunkers,
supply of three tractors and trailers for solid waste management; these improvements were selected by the
Town authorities themselves from a menu of options. The garbage bunkers are utilized but are not
regularly emptied and maintained. Most of the towns lack final dumping sites; where sites are available,
these are poorly located, e.g., in wetlands. Facilities provided for drainage are inadequate to address the
dramatic increase in piped water usage in the towns. Management of the public toilets also needs to be
improved to increase their use. Malaba town, which did not receive any support in sanitation, was the
worst hit ­ the challenge for solid waste management, sullage disposal at kiosks and domestic connections
was evident. Reducing environmental degradation needs to be addressed through a more comprehensive
strategy and commitment of adequate resources for implementation.

Achievement: Achievement of the objective is considered marginally satisfactory, within the limited budget
that had been allocated.

5/ Operations under the Private Operator in Luweero town started in Jan. 2002 after the system was commissioned.
6/ Latrine coverage was already quite high, averaging about 85% in the sample towns; the project did not support capital
investments in household sanitation as originally envisaged.

4.2 Outputs by components:

See above

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic analyses were not conducted as part of project preparation. The economic analyses at ICR build
on the financial analyses, which measure the flows of costs and benefits in market prices based on a total
investment of US$25.9 million7. The economic viability of the project is determined by comparing the



                                                            - 9 -

"with" and "without" project scenarios and adjusting the financial flows8 by adding: (a) expenditure savings
by new private domestic consumers, existing and new kiosk consumers, and existing and new point source
consumers; and (b) time savings resulting from reduced collection time and distances to sources. Details of
the assumptions used are provided in Annex 3.

The analyses indicate that all the towns have positive EIRRs (from about 0% for Lyantonde to 19.82% for
Jinja/Njeru), except Rakai, which shows an EIRR of ­7.06%. The combined EIRR is estimated at 9.80%.
This EIRR is considered to be conservative because it does not take into account: (a) the benefits to
industrial, commercial and agricultural activities made possible by the existence of a reliable water supply;
(b) benefits to additional households as the connection program continues; and (c) any health benefits
                                                                                         9


arising from improved WSS services.

The analysis shows that the investments have resulted in significant economic benefits to the residents
mainly through a drastically reduced average price of water, reduced collection time and distances to
sources, increased average consumption, and increased coverage among town residents. These benefits
could be further enhanced by: (a) continuing the Phase II connection expansion programme currently
supported by the GOU; (b) expanding the secondary and tertiary distribution network to meet the growing
demand for connections and to bring services closer to the 6% of the population that is still spending more
than 2.5 hours collecting water; (c) improving demand management; (d) ensuring cost­recovery tariffs
while incorporating the needs of the poor; and (e) continuing the engagement of the POs for systems
operations to ensure sustainable management. Most of the systems are still operating below capacity (it is
currently only 45% on average), which still provides a lot of room for expansion.

Rakai, the only town that shows a negative EIRR of ­7.06%, displays a characteristic that is markedly
different from the other towns; growth in connections has been inadequate and volumetric consumption
extremely low which would suggest that the demand is inadequate to support the type of system and
management model that has been put in place. GOU will therefore need to define a more suitable
management model for this town.


7/ This excludes the cost overrun for the second water supply project that was financed under this Credit.
8/ For the small towns, estimates are available only for the current revenue flows since the systems did not exist before this
project. Since Jinja/Njeru existed as a utility "without" project the adjustments have been made on the incremental financial
flows.
9/ The analysis uses the conservation assumption that water sales will not increase over time, which is unlikely given that
connections are expected to increase.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial analyses were not conducted as a part of project preparation. No detailed estimates of the
financial returns from the project, nor cash flow forecasts, are found in the SAR. The main thrust of the
original project design was that the operations, maintenance and replacement (OMR) of the systems would
be the responsibility of the respective communities through Water User Groups/Associations (WUG/WUA)
i.e. a WSS model based on direct operations and maintenance by the users themselves with capital
investment costs largely subsidized by the Project (common in rural WSS settings). In the case of Njeru,
project design called for the OMR to be the responsibility of NWSC. It was clear that the emphasis at
project design was achievement of operational sustainability as opposed to achieving maximum financial
rates of return on the investment in WSS assets.




                                                               - 10 -

During implementation, it became clear during Bank supervisions that the WUG/WUAs were not capable
of managing the rather complex systems that were being built. Consistent with the GOU's sector reform
strategy drawn up in 2000 (that is being supported by the Bank's PRSC operations), it was decided that
small private operators would be engaged by the new urban water authorities through management
contracts to provide operations and management of small towns systems.

Two forms of post-project financial analyses were carried out: (i) investment analysis using a `with' and
`without' project scenario to estimate the financial rates of return in each town, and (ii) financial forecasts
to gauge the operational sustainability in each town. Details of the assumptions used and analyses can be
found in Annex 3. Except for Njeru (where NWSC existed as a utility prior to the project), it is assumed
that there are no `without' project scenarios in the small towns given that there were no operations prior to
the project as the mini-utilities did not exist. The analyses exclude non-capital investment costs and utilize
the two years of operational data gathered from the operations of the POs, conservatively assuming that the
current operational cash flows would be maintained without further improvements over the analysis
horizon.

The results show a negative FNPV/FIRR for every town10. The combined FIRR for the project is ­7.7%.
The major factor contributing to this situation is relatively low sales and demand in the towns compared to
the very large investment costs incurred. The analyses show that under the current sales/demand scenario a
positive overall FIRR could only be achieved if investment costs were a quarter of the actual size. With the
experience from the project and subsequent GOU programs in the small towns, a reduced investment would
seem possible but it is unlikely that the investments could have been reduced by 75%. The implication of
this conclusion is that if it is determined that piped water supply is the appropriate method to provide safe
water to the urban population of the small towns in Uganda to meet the social objectives of the project, a
positive financial rate of return on total capital investment may not be an appropriate project benchmark.
Rather the benchmark should be financial sustainability of operations and maintenance. Indeed, current
GOU policy emphasizes this latter sustainability while providing for direct GOU subsidy for capital
investments. It should be noted, however, that if financial analyses were conducted during project
preparation, this scenario could have been anticipated and steps taken to reduce, as much as possible, the
negative financial rates of return. However, it should also be noted that while the systems may not be
returning positive financial returns on the assets, they are operationally sustainable ­ except for Rakai and
Malaba, all the systems are either showing positive operating margins or are on the brink of breaking even
i.e. meeting costs of operations and maintenance. The original project emphasis on meeting operation and
maintenance costs are being met albeit using a different management model than originally envisaged.
While financial rates of returns are negative (i.e. there are no direct financial returns on the investments),
economic analyses show that if non-financial benefits are taken into account, the population of the small
towns are economically better off with the project. Future operations should consider if, given the partly
social mandates of the water and sewerage services, positive financial returns should be expected from
capital investments in assets beyond the requirements of cost recovery for operations, maintenance and
eventual replacement.

10/ FIRRs range from ­2.33% in Njeru to ­14.88% in Ntungamo

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact is rated as high. The small towns have shown strong
potential for evolving into financially viable operations only 2 years after commissioning. All the towns,
except Rakai and Malaba, have either surpassed or recently reached the point of breakeven and sustainable
operations. Consistent application of the improvement measures proposed at MTR for NWSC have led to



                                                       - 11 -

impressive technical, financial and commercial performance of the Corporation. Kampala, which
constitutes 70% of NWSC's operations, is already managed by a PO under an enhanced management
contract while all the other operational areas of NWSC are under Area Performance Contracts and service
contracts with existing NWSC staff. Plans are also underway to convert the areas into autonomous entities
to operate under management contracts with NWSC during this Fiscal Year (FY).

NWSC has achieved a remarkable turnaround of its financial and operational situation and at the same
time, expanded its services to new customers at a first rate (estimated to be about 10,000 connections per
year or 12% growth). It is able to contribute to 21% of its capital investment programme from revenues.
The discipline imposed by the performance agreement - with detailed targets set to monitor improvements
in key external operation, internal operation, commercial and financial indicators - has been a key driver in
this turnaround. Financial projections for this FY indicate that aside from the debt obligations frozen under
the Ministry of Finance/NWSC Performance Agreement, NWSC can reasonably be expected to achieve
operating profit that will fully cover asset depreciation. If the issue of the frozen debt were resolved,
NWSC would become a financially viable corporation. There is now enough data and information to show
that the debt should either be written off or indefinitely frozen by the GOU to enable NWSC to continue to
improve gradually at a sustainable rate. In any case, the resolution of this debt to the GOU is a PRSC
benchmark to be achieved by April 1, 2004 ­ PRSC 4.

The project has pioneered the separation of asset ownership, oversight management, and day-to-day
management of operations. Currently, all the small towns supported under the project have been gazetted
as Urban Water and Sewerage Authorities (UWSA) , established Town Boards responsible for oversight
                                                       11


management; and signed Management Contracts with 2 local POs for the day-to-day management and
operations.

The project has contributed significantly to the development of a harmonized and replicable model for small
towns development and management. The Credit financed the Urban Sector Reform Study, which provided
a broad perspective of the urban WSS reform beyond the 11 small towns supported under the project. The
Reform Study provided the basis for preparation of the Urban Water and Sanitation Sector Reform
Strategy which laid the foundation and framework on which WSS programs in all small towns in Uganda is
now based. The existence of this framework is enabling relatively faster implementation of small towns
programs; GOU is now developing 7 systems per year, to be compared with 5 systems before the project.

The sector reform strategy suggests a two-track approach involving the delegation of asset management to
UWSAs and sub-contracting day-to-day operations to professional private sector operators. For the large
towns, GOU will encourage deeper private sector participation of at least a lease with a PO formed by an
international water operator, while management contracts are envisaged for the small towns. The project
also enabled a seamless migration to programmatic lending through the PRSC; the Letter of Development
Policy that resulted from the Reform Study was included in PRSC2 and PRSC4, thereby transitioning the
project to PRSC support. All these innovative concepts were pioneered and refined under the project.

In moving forward to replicate these concepts, the GOU has established the Water Authorities Unit in the
DWD. Focusing only on small towns, the Unit is responsible for: (a) supporting the establishment of
UWSAs and providing them with technical support and capacity building; (b) monitoring the performance
of the UWSAs and the POs; and (c) monitoring the use of conditional grants by the towns. A UWSS
reform office has also been created to oversee countrywide reforms in the urban WSS sector. Already, 56
UWSAs have been gazetted (including the 10 funded under this project) and 34 towns, clustered into viable
groups, have been contracted out to local POs. GOU has also prepared a long-term management strategy



                                                      - 12 -

for small towns to ensure harmonized development and management across the country.

The project is also credited for contributing to the development of a local private sector capacity in the
management of town water supply systems. There are already 6 local operators managing the 34 towns.

Two areas, however need further strengthening to consolidate the gains made so far, especially as
implementation of the concepts developed under the project rapidly moves to scale: (a) the Water Utilities
Unit of the DWD, to provide more structured support to the UWSAs, focused M&E and feedback systems
and regular reporting on implementation of the Performance Contracts, and to carry out annual technical
and financial audits; (b) the Town Boards, to improve their capacities in business planning, procurement
planning and management, supervision of the POs and performance of the management contracts.

11/ Under the Water Statute (1995) the Urban Water and Sewerage Authorities are responsible for providing services in their
areas of jurisdiction through a Performance Contract with the Minister.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency. There were two factors that led to a
delayed start of project implementation: (a) the requirement to obtain "no objection" for the project from
the other Nile Basin riparian countries; and (b) difficulties in identifying adequate groundwater resources
in Lugazi, Lyantonde and Malaba.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The country was going through a period of political and economic stability and growth and there were
therefore no major issues at the macro level. However, project effectiveness was delayed by 15 months
after Board approval due to a condition that required enactment of the Water Statute to provide a legal
framework for water user groups, water user committees and water user associations. Though a difficult
condition to fulfill especially given the country's focus on developing a national constitution at the time, it
was still within government control. One way to address this might have been for government to press for
more realistic effectiveness conditions during credit negotiation.

The GOU did not enforce effective monitoring of the NWSC and was not pro-active in getting the
Corporation to solve its financial problems until after the MTR recommendations from the Bank. Infact,
GOU was NWSC's largest defaulter at MTR. This continues to be the case; at ICR, verified but unpaid
arrears dating back to FY00/01 and FY01/02 amounted to UShs5.7 billion for which no satisfactory
resolution has been found. The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED) had
proposed to settle the arrears during the FY03/04 ­ such prolonged delay in processing payments is not
consistent with efficient WSS operations. Due to lack of progress in resolving this long-standing issue,
settlement of the arrears has been placed as one of the prior conditions for appraisal of PRSC4. It is
imperative that adequate budgeting for utility arrears and current consumption is done so as not to hamper
NWSC operations. This problem is also experienced in the small towns where some decentralized GOU
institutions are defaulting on their payment obligations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

A more pro-active involvement at project design and implementation especially before the MTR was
necessary. The NWSC and DWD did not carry out systematic and comprehensive design review, which



                                                            - 13 -

would have identified the over-design that characterized the investments and the imbalance between revenue
generation and cost recovery capacities of the investments. These agencies seemed to adopt a
"one-time-build-all" approach (deliberately including over-design and excess capacity for possible later
use) which is not consistent with efficient utility management that is based more on a modular approach
which emphasizes alignment of investment proposals, revenue generation and users demand. The
implementing agencies also did not give adequate treatment to sanitation.

In general, proper books of account were kept by the project. However, the audited accounts for the
financial years ended June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2002 were both qualified for not being able to verify
government funding of US$363,218 which related to VAT paid by the Ministry of Water, Lands and
Environment on behalf of the project. Further, submission of the accounts for the year ended June 30,
2002 was late. The accounts were submitted in September 2003, contrary to the legal agreement, which
requires that audited accounts be submitted within 6 months after the end of the accounting period.

Land acquisition led to some delays because arrangements had not been adequately made before
mobilization. There is still an unresolved land ownership issue in Wobulenzi regarding one of the borehole
sites.

Unlike the other 9 towns, Wobulenzi is still under a WUA though a Water Supply and Sewerage Board has
recently been appointed. The resolution to bring Wobulenzi under the management of the PO, who should
have mobilized in July 2001, is long over due.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$48 million equivalent, of which 0.84 million was
estimated as taxes and duties. Of the total cost of US$48 million, US$42.3 million (88.1%) was to be
financed by IDA and US$2.50 million by the GOU for Parts A & C, and US$3.2 million by NWSC for
Part B of the project. Arising from the recommendations of the Mid Term Review, the project was
restructured to scale down the Part B (Jinja/Njeru). IDA used the savings made from this scale down to
finance the cost overrun of US$ 7.5 million under the Second Water Supply Project following an
independent review of the various contracts. At closing US$41.37 million or 99.8% of the IDA credit had
been disbursed, US$5.06 million and US$1.57 million disbursed by the GOU and NWSC respectively.
Disbursements from GOU for Parts A & C are higher than the appraisal estimates by US$2.50 million due
to financing of additional work on intensification of the secondary and tertiary distribution networks to
cater for house connections, procurement of meters, installation of connections for the Phase II connection
program, and financing of additional work on the treatment plant in Rakai town. Except for the gap
occasioned by the delay in project effectiveness, disbursements have generally been on schedule.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Project sustainability is rated as likely for the following reasons:

a)    GOU's ownership of the project and commitment to reforms that emphasize reliability, affordability
      and sustainability of urban WSS services has been remarkable. Such political support was crucial for
      implementation of the new concepts and their replication, as well as for provision of the necessary
      budget resources.




                                                       - 14 -

b)   Application of best practice in developing an institutional model that fosters the following success
     factors:

          (i)    financial and management autonomy;
          (ii) transparency and accountability;
          (iii) professional support to the local governments and sharing of professional resources between
                 neighbouring towns for economies of scale;
          (iv) competition;
          (v) the principle of using users' demand to guide investment planning and to provide incentives
                 for expansion of the systems; and
          (vi) ensuring services to the poor by providing varying levels of service, subsidizing connection
                 cost, and providing the poor with a voice as stakeholders and customers.

c)   Existence of an enabling legal and institutional framework, which provided the foundation for the
     project to implement the concept of separating ownership, governance and operations. This has led to
     the establishment of an arms-length relationship between the asset holder (the respective local
     governments for the small towns, and NWSC for Jinja/Njeru) to ensure autonomy in management of
     operations as well as provide for some form of regulation of service provision. This institutional
     arrangement enjoys strong support from the government, local authorities, as well as the users.

d)   Good quality and well functioning water supply infrastructure: Quality of construction is good in all
     the towns and the facilities are providing 24 hour service under the management of POs for the core
     areas of the towns and community based organizations for the point sources in the fringe areas. Users
     are satisfied with the quality of service, location of facilities and the price of water. Participants at the
     Stakeholder Workshop endorsed the management model and in particular, the continued use of the
     POs in systems management.

e)   Flexibility to respond to users demand: Re-orienting the water service from public stand posts to
     mostly private connections corresponds to what the population wants and is willing to pay for ­ there
     was still a long waiting list for connections that will be met by regular network extensions financed
     under the budget through the PRSC. It also establishes the financial basis for sustainable operations.
     The adoption of business planning in the small towns and of the "Stretch Program" in Jinja/Njeru     12


     also puts the systems on a positive commercial and financial footing.

f)   Broad benefits resulting from the project: The project has provided benefits beyond drinking water to
     support industrial and commercial activities in the towns such as the establishment of a meat packers
     industry in Lyantonde, development of a bus park in Busia, livestock rearing and other retail
     activities.

g)   Users satisfaction with the quality of service: Participants at the stakeholder workshop also rated
     sustainability of the project as likely. In addition, the Impact Study indicated clearly that users were
     satisfied with the services in terms of quality, quantity as well as affordability.

12/ Drawn on best practice management techniques for large corporate organizations, "Stretch" recognizes the fact that human
resource capacity is a critical input into the performance of any organization and outlines steps to maximize productivity out of
every individual, based on enhanced speed, reduced bureaucracy, simplicity and empowerment.




                                                               - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project has implemented the reform introduced in the country in the management of small towns water
supplies by separating ownership (LGs) from operation by private professional operators procured through
a transparent and competitive process. The experience gained in the last 2 years of operations shows that
most of the towns are breaking even in their operation and maintenance costs, thus demonstrating the
sustainability of the system. With progressive increase in the customer base, sustainability will be further
strengthened.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

As indicated earlier in this report, the project had a number of innovative features. It was the first small
towns project in the country and in the region and there were therefore no prior experiences to be shared.
The project was based on a demand responsive approach in an environment in which WSS services
provision was almost entirely supply driven. The project was also the first to test the Policies and
Guidelines that GOU had developed. The Team is commended for its courage to pioneer a project for
which there was no precedent and for maintaining an open and flexible approach. However, there were
significant conceptual gaps, for instance in: (a) poor demand assessment that led to small towns being
considered as upgraded rural systems rather than as simplified urban systems, (b) defining objectives that
were rather vague and overly ambitious, and which were not easily measurable; and (c) the mismatch
between objectives, components and budget allocation especially for sanitation and waste management.
Further, no financial and economic analyses were carried out to justify the project. The inclusion of a
legalistic effectiveness condition requiring enactment of the Water Statute to provide a legal framework for
WUAs, WSC and WUGs was unrealistic and led to a 15 month delay between project approval and
effectiveness. Overall, Bank performance with regard to lending is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

Implementation:
Bank performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. The project team helped to re-orient project
design to address users demand for private connections which turned out to be successful. The team is also
commended for its boldness in recommending restructuring of the project by scaling down the investments
in Jinja/Njeru, financing the cost overrun for the Second Water Supply Project from the savings made and
basing this decision on an independent review of the origins of the cost overrun. The Team's
recommendations and consistent analysis and review of NWSC's performance have been critical in turning
the Corporation into a well functioning utility that is operationally viable and also contributing to 21% of
its capital investment programme. The Team has also consistently provided advise and guidance to NWSC
during its transition to PSP, including facilitating sharing of experiences with WSS utilities from other
parts of the world in which PSP schemes have been successfully implemented.

The restructuring of Part B and freezing of NWSC debt was the first step in implementing a program of
systematic improvement of performance indicators which has paid off. However, the team could have done
more to justify the investment in Jinja/Njeru by carrying out economic and financial analyses, increasing
the scope for sanitation and waste management, and to even attempt a re-definition of objectives to make
them easier to measure, and to identify components and activities needed to achieve the objectives.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project is rated as highly satisfactory. The team is commended for: (a) making


                                                      - 16 -

innovative decisions and applying best practice during supervision; (b) carrying out sector work and
engaging government in a productive dialogue that assisted in developing and interpreting the specific
reforms for the 11 towns and facilitating the move to sector-wide implementation of the reforms; (c)
keeping a keen eye on emerging lessons and adopting a flexible approach and sharp follow through to
ensure integration of lessons learnt to improve implementation; (d) ensuring consistent and in-depth
analysis of performance of the towns and NWSC and providing prompt feedback and follow-up; and (e)
mainstreaming and transitioning the project to programmatic lending through PRSC. The Team combined
strong supervision, a good partnership with government, thorough analyses of performance, and flexibility
to apply lessons learnt to overcome the weaknesses in design and preparation to turn the project into a best
practice one whose lessons are relevant for the sector in Uganda and other countries in the region.

Supervision strategy:
The team ensured a good mix of specialists (engineering, institutional development, finance, economics)
and combined with field staff to ensure a continuous dialogue and interaction in between the supervision
missions. In particular, the task team established and maintained a productive relationship with the Nairobi
based Water and Sanitation Program ­ Africa which provided specialized inputs to: (a) build support and
consensus on the mini-utility model within DWD, the local governments and the communities, (b) refine the
various contractual documents ­ the Performance Contract and the Management Contract, (c) establish the
Water Supply and Sewerage Boards at the Town Council level and provide them with initial training, (d)
carry out annual performance reviews of the operations of the systems under the PO, and (e) document the
implementation process and lessons learnt.     13




13/ The Water and Sanitation Program ­ Africa and the DWD prepared a video Water Supply Services for Small Towns in
Uganda that has been widely disseminated in Uganda and the region.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Despite a long delay in project effectiveness, consultations and community mobilization continued and
GOU commitment, momentum and ownership did not falter. GOU also made tremendous improvements
through project restructuring at MTR but not sufficient to adequately address the objective of reducing
environmental degradation through better waste management. Further, the GOU did not pay adequate
attention to the proposed investments and their continued relevance to the town situations, users demand
and especially to prepare a project that would address the serious institutional issues faced at the time.
Project preparation showed a heavy bias towards construction of water supply facilities and paid little
attention to sanitation. The Bank had proposed an unrealistic effectiveness condition (to provide a legal
framework for WUA, WUG and WSC which required the intervention of Parliament), but GOU did not
negotiate to have this condition dropped. Fulfillment of this condition led to a 15-month delay in project
effectiveness. Due to these weaknesses, the Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated
unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Borrower's performance in project implementation is rated as satisfactory. GOU ensured political
support and flexibility to implement new and innovative concepts and to adapt implementation as new



                                                         - 17 -

lessons emerged. Counterpart funding was available and was provided in excess of the amounts agreed at
appraisal. GOU showed ownership of the project by embracing and supporting the reforms to a very high
degree and establishing a unit specifically responsible for small towns as well as the UWSS reform office.
The project has been implemented largely by Ugandans with limited and targeted TA and both Parts A&C
and Part B were managed prudently and within budget. The GOU is commended for accepting to scale
down the Jinja-Njeru investment and to use the resources strategically including paying of the cost over-run
on CR. 2124-UG and reducing the indebtedness of NWSC, showing consistent follow up of project
implementation and achievements after the MTR, having the courage to test and refine innovative solutions,
and, replicating innovative concepts and approaches in other projects and towns in the country. GOU's
strength in the implementation phase helped to overcome weaknesses in preparation to ensure a successful
project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Pls. refer to 7.5

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Pls. refer to 7.3

8. Lessons Learned

Project Design
l Demand assessment is a key principle for guiding investment planning and ensuring that the facilities
    meet users requirements and provide services that they are able and willing to pay for. Demand also
    helps to define the appropriate management model from the outset as well as the need (or otherwise) for
    commercial management. Proper demand assessment would have led to curtailing the over-design of
    systems.
l Project design and costing needs to include mechanisms for financing connections to ensure: (a) that
    adequate secondary and tertiary distribution infrastructure is developed from the outset, (b) a large
    customer base, and (c) a balance between production and distribution ­ linking investments with cost
    recovery, revenue generation and debt service.
l Lending large amounts of capital for investments to a utility (Jinja/Njeru) requires full technical,
    financial, economic and institutional analyses as a basis for justification.
l Quality assurance during preparation is key. This may have helped in defining clearer objectives,
    addressing the mismatch between the components and objectives, preparing more appropriate levels of
    investment and better demand assessment.
l It is important to ensure that adequate baseline data and information is collected to allow for a clearer
    assessment of project impacts.

Institutional Development
l small towns should be treated as simplified urban utilities rather than as upgraded rural system and that
    application of the WUA model in urban towns is inappropriate because: (a) the demand responses in
    urban town, however small, call for more commercial management of different service levels that was
    not anticipated in the original design; (b) governance arrangements at Town Council level introduce
    complications in ownership of assets, management oversight and day-to-day operation of the systems;
    and (c) sanitation needs are more varied and complex than could be conveniently management by
    WUAs;
l while the creation of the Water Authorities Unit was appropriate, there is need to strengthen it with
    adequate resources and manpower to provide more structured and timely support and to guide Urban
    Water Authorities in the planning, design, construction and regulation of O & M and supervision of the
    POs;


                                                     - 18 -

l providing sustainable services to the poor requires establishment by NWSC of a dedicated unit with
    specialized skills to respond to the particular character and demands of WSS services for the urban
    poor, be responsible for the day to day management and coordination of programs, procurement, M&E
    and establishment of linkages between the various stakeholders;
l to avoid delays in project implementation, conditionality, which is outside the control of implementing
    agencies, should be avoided. The requirement to formalize the existence of Water User Groups, Water
    User Associations, and Water and Sanitation Committees required the enactment of the Water Statute
    by Parliament; this condition led to a 15-month delay in project effectiveness.

Financial Development
l financial viability of a utility and sustainability of services delivery depends on appropriate
    dimensioning and balance between production, secondary and tertiary infrastructure, coupled with
    sound commercial and financial management;
l need for development of an M& E system for the operational and financial performance of the town
    water authorities, POs and NWSC, in order to review accuracy of data, prepare short-term financial
    forecast and action plans and a feedback mechanism to improve management especially at this stage
    when the Towns Boards are in their nascent stage.

Implementation
l good quality preparation, vigilance of the engineering consultant and the project management team
    throughout the project cycle are important elements that guarantee quality, limit delays and over design
    of systems, and provide a good basis for sustainable operations.
l scope and size of investments should take the viability of the utility and the impact of the investment on
    its balance sheet into consideration.
l timely review of projects performance and progress towards meeting of objectives is necessary in order
    to take corrective measures that would enhance the impact and outcome of the project.
l Task teams should take advantage of project restructuring as an opportunity to fundamentally improve
    projects including re-definition of objectives, components and to request necessary assessments that
    would make for better project outputs, outcomes and impacts.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The GOU completed its own Implementation Completion Report which is attached unedited as Annex 8,
contributed to the Impact Assessment Study, and the Stakeholder Workshop processes. In addition, GOU
provided comments on an earlier draft of this ICR.

The GOU lauds the following aspects that led to successful implementation of the project and contributed
to the evolution of a sector strategy for providing sustainable WSS services in small towns:

    a) availability of good local human resource capacity gained from managing similar projects in the
        past, and establishment and retention of a dedicated project team at both DWD and NWSC for day
        to day implementation management;
    b) re-orientation of the project at MTR, which is seen as the turning point for the project, enabling it
        to respond to users demand;
    c) converting NWSC into an operationally viable utility and DWD from being a service provider to
        an enabler by establishing the Water Authorities Unit to supervise the operations of WSS activities



                                                     - 19 -

        in small towns and Technical Support Units to support the District Councils in rural WSS
        development;
    d) implementing innovative approaches that ensure the separation of asset ownership and
        management, and professional management of these small but complex water supply systems; and
    e) the Bank's flexibility, strong partnership with the government, regular and efficient supervision and
        for the MTR recommendations, efficiency in day-to-day activities such as issuing "no objection
        letters, and replenishment of the Special Accounts.

The GOU also points out that project preparation by itself, and lending by the Bank, were weak. GOU has
also identified the following shortcomings to be taken into account in designing future projects:

    a) unnecessarily heavy expenditures on consultancies and studies (these comprised about 26% of total
        project cost) some of which were not directly linked to project objectives;
    b) the unrealistic conditions set for credit effectiveness and its failure to address such conditions
        during credit negotiations;
    c) lack of baseline information against which to measure impact of the project; and
    d) limited attention paid to sanitation and insufficient budget allocation, which was too small to have
        any meaningful impact (only 3% of the project cost) despite heavy requirement to address two of
        the specific project objectives.

Client satisfaction of the project is shown by GOU's rating of its overall performance as well as that of the
Bank as highly satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:
na

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
na

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Summary                       Key Performance Indicators
   Project Development                At Appraisal                                   Actual
        Objective
Support GOU's economic      · improved water supply services       · improved water supply service
recovery program by           provided to 156,000 people (this        provided to a total of 191,000 people
upgrading or rehabilitating   number would include the 30,000         (this includes 30,000 who already
water supply and sanitation   people who already had access to        had access to improved water supply
systems in towns already      improved water supply)                  at appraisal and whose service
served and creating systems                                           conditions have also been improved)
in town not yet covered     · new water supply services to 126,000 · new water supply service provided to
                              people                                  161,000 people (78,000 through
                                                                      domestic connections; 36,000
                                                                      through kiosks; and; 47,000 through
                                                                      improved point sources)
                            · high proportion of town population   · good hygiene practices prevalent
                              practicing good hygiene and             among majority of residents
                              sanitation

Project Objectives and
Outputs
1. Improve health           · Improved health and well being of     The results of the Independent Impact
conditions through better     the town population                   Study and DWD records show:
water supply, excreta
disposal, waste                                                    · water supply systems constructed in
management, and public                                                10 small towns and Jinja/Njeru
hygiene.                                                           · 24 hour water supply available in the
                                                                      10 small towns and Jinja/Njeru
                                                                      through domestic connections, kiosks
                                                                      and point sources
                                                                   · in Jinja/Njeru, UFW reduced from
                                                                      57% - 28%; system now delivering
                                                                      30,000m3 per day
                                                                   · high and increasing dependence on
                                                                      piped water; more than 70% of the
                                                                      households depending on piped
                                                                      water; and the rest on point sources
                                                                   · town population perceives the water
                                                                      to be of good quality and
                                                                      conveniently located
                                                                   · systems in 9 small towns and
                                                                      Jinja/Njeru sustainably managed by
                                                                      POs (through management contracts)
                                                                      and by NWSC through Area
                                                                      Performance Contracts respectively
                            · Better sanitation at household level  The results of the Independent Impact
                              and increased awareness of the public Study show:
                              health effects of improper excreta
                              disposal                             · High awareness on waterborne



                                                  - 21 -

                                                                      diseases associated with dirty hands
                                                                      and on the role of good sanitation
                                                                   · hand washing followed by washing
                                                                      clothes are the most common hygiene
                                                                      practices
                                                                   · latrines cleaned daily by most of the
                                                                      households
2. Alleviate poverty and  ·    Improved conditions for the poor by  The results of the Independent Impact
improve the lot of women       including them in appropriate        Study show:
                               technology
                          ·    Women's traditional burden to       · broad range of technologies to suit
                               provide water and look after the       different income levels available
                               health of children reduced          · average price of water reduced from
                                                                      Ush100 to 25 per 20 litre jerrican
                                                                   · 70% of the population paying
                                                                      between Ush17 ­ 24 per 20litre
                                                                      jerrican
                                                                   · 70% of the population within 50
                                                                      meters of a safe water source and
                                                                      spending about 15mins to fetch water
                                                                   · 23% of the population spend 1 hour
                                                                      fetching water
                                                                   · increased livestock rearing
                                                                   · management of kiosks and yard taps
                                                                      providing employment for residents
                                                                      and has helped a few of them acquire
                                                                      starting capital for small businesses
                                                                   · availability of reliable water supply
                                                                      supporting establishment of a meat
                                                                      packing factory in Lyantonde and a
                                                                      bus park in Busia
                                                                   · women empowered through training
                                                                      and jobs as caretakers at kiosks and
                                                                      yard taps, employment with the POs,
                                                                      and representation on Town Boards
3. Reduce environmental   Environmental improvements through        Records from DWD, NWSC and the
degradation through       safe disposal of excreta and waste water  Impact Study show:
better waste management                                            · level of raw water abstraction in
                                                                      Jinja/Njeru did not increase
                                                                   · performance of the treatment ponds
                                                                      in Jinja improved, leading to:
                                                                   · % of samples with BOD5>50mg/l is
                                                                      45% compared to 67% before
                                                                   · No samples registered with
                                                                      TSS>100mg/l
                                                                   · Treatment efficiencies of BOD5, TSS
                                                                      and feacal coliforms greater than
                                                                      60%
                                                                   · Storm drains and refuse bunkers used
                                                                      by residents but are not sufficient for
                                                                      the towns
Project Components
Part A: Rehabilitation,


                                                   - 22 -

expansion & new
construction of water supply
and sanitation facilities in
11 towns
                             · production capacity of 2,500m3/day  · 5,200m3/day production capacity
                               installed                             installed
                             · 24 deep boreholes drilling and      · 22 boreholes drilled and equipped
                               equipped
                             · 41,400m pipeline with fittings laid · 190,700m of pipeline laid with
                                                                     fittings
                             · 250 stand posts constructed         · 104 stand posts constructed
                             · NP                                  · 2570 private connections installed
                             · 178 point sources constructed       · 171 point sources constructed
                             · 8,800 sanplats provided             · NI
                             · sanitation and hygiene promotion    · 11 motor cycles
                               carried out                         · 33 bicycles
                                                                   · 2 training workshops held
                             · 3 health & sanitation training
                               workshops held
                             · NP                                  · 44 refuse bunkers provided
                             · 19 public latrines constructed      · 45 public latrines constructed
                             · NP                                  · 14 km of storm drains constructed
                             · 3                                   · 3 tractor trailers supplied
                             · 3 No. septage emptying sites        · NI
                               developed
                             · 2 No. vacuum tankers purchased      · NI
                             · Pipes, fittings, water meters and   · 1000m3 panelled steel tank installed
                               related equipment replaced, network · 28 km pipeline rehabilitated, capacity
                               expanded to unserved areas, pumping   of 18.8km pipeline increased, 75 km
                               capacity increased                    of new pipelines installed (including
                                                                     20km to service low income areas)
                                                                   · new booster pumping station with 2
                                                                     pumps of 16l/s @117m head with
                                                                     associated electrical supply and
                                                                     switchboard installed
                                                                   · MCC panel installed at WTW
                                                                   · 4 raw water pumps and two high lift
                                                                     pumps replaced
                                                                   · surge equipment replaced




                                                   - 23 -

Part B: Rehabilitation and
expansion of water supply
and sewerage facilities
                           · water treatment works rehabilitated · chlorination equipment at Jinja
                             and raw water intake structure        WTW replaced
                             modified                            · water treatment plant reproofed
                           · 300 house connections               · 1580 metered connections installed
                           · 74 kiosks/stand posts for community · 4 kiosks constructed
                             supply facilities,
                           · 54 hand pump wells developed and    · NI
                             13 springs protected
                           · Community management studies        · Community management study for
                                                                   Jinja/Njeru completed
                           · NWSC Training and capacity          · Chief Internal Auditor trained in
                             building                              budgeting, in USA
                                                                 · Principal Public Relations Officer
                                                                   trained management of public
                                                                   relations, protocol and customer care,
                                                                   in Kenya
                                                                 · Two project engineers trained in
                                                                   advanced contract management, in
                                                                   the UK
                                                                 · Economist/Planner trained in
                                                                   Investment Appraisal and
                                                                   Management, in USA
                           · existing sewers rehabilitated and   · NI
                             expanded                            · NI
                           · New sewers and sewage treatment
                             ponds constructed in Njeru
                           · pit latrines upgraded/constructed;  · NI
                             septic tanks
                             rehabilitated/constructed; public
                             latrines constructed
                           · Water Supply Expansion studies for  · NI
                             Kampala and Entebbe
                           · Gulu rehabilitation studies         · Gulu source investigation and
                                                                   rehabilitation studies completed
                           · limnology and environmental impact · NI
                             studies completed
                           · hygiene and sanitation promotion    · NI
                             carried out
                           · Equipment and materials supplied;   · All planned materials and equipment
                           o Vehicles                              procured
                           o Computers
                           o Laboratory chemicals and equipment
                           o Office equipment and supplies
                           o Sewer maintenance equipment
                           · NP                                  · Payment for cost overrun of Second
                                                                   Water Supply project (Cr. 2124-UG
                                                                   made




                                                 - 24 -

                               ·    NP                                   · Urban Water Sector Reform Study
                                                                           completed
                               ·    NP                                   · community water supply facilities
                                                                           constructed in Jinja
                               ·    NP                                   · consultancy services for a transaction
                                                                           advisor for procuring a management
                                                                           contract for Kampala Water Supply
                                                                           Service Area completed
                               ·    NP                                   · 11km Tororo - Malaba transmission
                                                                           line laid
                               ·    NP                                   · LAN system installed
Part C: Institutional          ·    furniture & equipment for DWD        · DWD offices renovated, furnished
Strengthening                       offices provided                       and equipped; additional offices
                                                                           created, including a conference hall;
                                                                           10 No. air ­conditioners supplied
                               ·    district water offices renovated     · 11 offices constructed, 1 for each of
                                                                           the 11 small towns
                               ·    11 pick-ups, 1 station wagon and 1   · 21 No. 4WD pick-ups; 5 No. 4 WD
                                    bus for DWD procured                   station wagons; 2 No. minibuses;
                                                                           and; 1 No. saloon car procured
                               ·    Strategic planning, training needs   · Training for DWD officials
                                    assessment, and                        completed
                                    management/professional training
                                    for DWD officials carried out
                               ·    Training of local government staff,  · A series of seminars on the project,
                                    elected officials on their roles and   health and sanitation were carried out
                                    contribution to support and manage   · water committees trained to equip
                                    community owned facilities and         them with basic skills in technical and
                                    services provided                      financial matter and management of
                                                                           their water facilities
NI - Planned at Appraisal but not implemented
NP - Not planned at appraisal but implemented




                                                         - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project cost by Component (in US$million equivalent)

A. Parts A & C
     Category           Description       SAR allocations  Actual/latest  Percentage of
                                           US$ Million    estimate end of  Appraisal
                                                              project
                                                           US$ million
(1)               Civil works                   8.85           7.95           90.0
(2)               Equipment. & Materials        2.18           1.97           90.0
(3)               Consulting Services,          5.12           7.47          146.0
                  Tech. Assistance &
                  Training
(4)               Operating Costs               0.61           1.32          216.0
(9) (a)           Refund of PPF                 1.20           1.20          100
(10) (a)          Unallocated                   2.24           0              0
IDA Sub-Total                                   20.20         19.91           99.0
GOU                                             2.50           5.06          202
TOTAL FOR                                       22.70         24.97          110
Parts A & C


   B. Part B
     Category           Description       SAR allocations  Actual/latest  Percentage of
                                           US$ Million    estimate end of  Appraisal
                                                              project
                                                           US$ million
(5) (a)           Civil works ­ STWSP           12.04           6.26          52.0
(5) (b)           Civil Works ­ WS2                             6.16
(6)               Equipment. & Materials         1.53           2.07         135.0
(7) (a)           Consulting Services,           5.53           5.32          96.0
                  Tech. Assistance &
                  Training ­STWSP
(7) (b)           Consulting Services,                          0.42
                  WS2
(8)               Operating Costs                0.16           0.34         212.0
(9) (b)           Refund of PPF                  0.30           0.32         106.0
(10) (b)          Unallocated                    2.54           0             0
IDA Sub-Total                                   22.10          20.89          95.0
NWSC                                             3.20           1.56          49.0
Contribution
TOTAL FOR                                       25.30          22.45          89.0
Part B
Grand Total                                     48.00          47.42          98.8




                                              - 26 -

      Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million Equivalent)

                                                           Procurement method
Expenditure category                            ICB          NCB       Shop    Others   Total
                                                                       ping
Civil Works                                       18.48       5.66               4.78     28.92
                                                 (14.34)     (4.32)             (4.78)   (23.44)
Equipment, Spare Parts, Vehicles , Materials,      2.59       0.11      0.20     1.16     4.06
etc                                               (2.59)     (0.11)    (0.20)   (1.16)   (4.06)
Consulting Services, TA and training                                            12.41    12.41
                                                                               (12.41)  (12.41)
Operating costs                                                                  1.11     1.11
                                                                                (0.89)   (0.89)
Refund of PPF                                                                    1.50     1.50
                                                                                (1.50)   (1.50)
Total                                             21.07       5.77      0.20    20.96    48.00
IDA                                              16.93        4.43      0.20    20.74   42.30

                   Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/latest estimate)
                                           (US$ million Equivalent)

                                                        Procurement method
Expenditure category                            ICB         NCB       Shop    Others    Total
                                                                      ping
Civil Works                                       22.09       3.28      0.43             25.80
                                                 (18.46)     (1.80)    (0.11)           (20.37)
Equipment, Spare Parts, Vehicles , Materials,      2.82       1.28      0.23    0.11      4.44
etc                                               (2.42)     (1.28)    (0.23)  (0.11)    (4.04)
Consulting Services, TA and training                                           13.33     13.33
                                                                              (13.21)   (13.21)
Operating costs                                                                 2.33      2.33
                                                                               (1.66)    (1.66)
Refund of PPF                                                                   1.52      1.52
                                                                               (1.52)    (1.52)
Total                                             24.91       4.56      0.66   17.29     47.42
IDA                                               20.88       3.08      0.34   16.50     40.80


Figures in parenthesis are IDA credit portions




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

General

Economic analyses were not conducted as part of project preparation. This economic analysis carried out
at ICR builds on the financial analysis (also carried out at ICR), which measures the flows of costs and
benefits in market prices based on a total investment of US$25.90million . The economic viability of the
                                                                            14


project is determined by comparing the "with" and "without" project scenarios and adjusting the financial
flows by adding: (a) expenditure savings by new private domestic consumers, existing and new kiosk
      15


consumers, and, existing and new point source consumers; and (b) time savings resulting from reduced
collection time and distances to sources (see attached table showing the economic adjustments). The cash
flows are then discounted at 10% as the proxy for opportunity cost of capital in Uganda.

NPV and IRR Results

The analyses indicate that the project has a combined EIRR of 9.80%; the ENPV is however negative since
the IRR is lower than the discount factor of 10%. This EIRR is considered to be conservative because it
does not take into account: (a) the benefits to industrial, commercial and agricultural activities made
possible by the existence of a reliable water supply; (b) benefits to additional households as the connection
program continues ; and (c) health benefits arising from improved WSS services.
                    16




The most significant drivers of the NPV and IRR are the direct expenditure savings resulting from
availability of piped water by existing and new kiosk consumers, and new consumers at domestic private
connections; these savings amount to Ush3.6 billion annually and constitute about 85% of the total
expenditure savings. The savings largely arise from the difference between the financial tariffs charged at
the various towns, at an average of Ush25 per 20 litre jerrican, and the average price of Ush. 100 per
20-litre jerrican paid by residents, buying water from vendors and the few kiosks and boreholes that existed
without project. The systems developed under the project are able to supply water much more efficiently
and at a lower price than the former substitute sources ­ the average unit price of water procured from all
sources combined has reduced significantly. The positive EIRR clearly indicates that the project has a net
positive economic benefit to the town populations. These benefits are expected to accrue to more residents
as the Phase II connection program currently funded through the GOU budget continues in response to the
list of households waiting to be connected.

The financial analysis arrives at a combined FNPV of negative Ush20 billion and a negative FIRR of
-7.7%. The economic returns exceed the financial returns due to the large non-financial benefits accruing
to the consumers. The largest of these are the savings arising from the difference between the financial
tariffs charged at the various towns and the average price that consumers paid without project ­ see table
below that summarizes the FNPV, FIRR, ENPV and EIRR.

                                     Summary of the FIRRs and EIRRs

       Town                          Financial                                Economic
                         NPV (Ush)             IRR (%)             NPV (Ush)            IRR (%)
Lugazi                 (2,426,816,166)             -7.64          (1,131,694,286)           4.92
Luweero                (2,462,185,221)            -13.54            (761,237,425)           6.54
Busia                  (2,784,678,855)             -8.75            (419,952,968)           8.44
Malaba                   (903,191,693)                 -              161,631,900          11.84
Lyantonde              (3,109,229,869)                 -          (2,305,013,312)          -0.12



                                                     - 28 -

Ntungamo                 (1,466,701,068)           -14.88             (167,076,309)          8.85
Rakai                     (919,201,031)                 -             (819,763,955)         -7.06
Kalisizo                  (663,033,057)             -5.44             (302,589,873)          5.31
Rukungiri                (1,707,818,992)                -              338,078,501          11.87
Wobulenzi                 2,126,326,977)            -6.19          (1,463,595,565)           2.36
Njeru                    (3,700,095,399)            -2.33            4,331,362,401          19.82
Combined               (20,142,951,352)             -7.66             (413,523,913)          9.80

The table shows a negative FNPV/FIRR for all towns. Four of the towns (Malaba, Lyantonde, Rakai and
Rukungiri) do not have calculable FIRR as they do not yet generate positive incremental cashflows.
However, except Rakai, the towns are expected to do so as the number of connections and hence
consumption increases over time . On the demand side, the current consumption in the small towns is too
                                    17


small, nor is it likely that future consumption increases will be large enough to generate a positive FIRR.
However, the largest factor driving the FIRR is the large investment costs. Sensitivity analyses show that
under the current consumption scenarios, a positive overall FIRR could only be achieved if investment
costs were a quarter of the actual size. With the experience from the project and subsequent GOU
programs in the small towns, a reduced investment would seem possible but it is unlikely that the
investments could have been reduced by 75%. The implication of this conclusion is that, if it is determined
that piped water supply is the appropriate method to provide safe water to the urban population of the
small towns in Uganda to meet the social objectives of the project, a positive financial rates of return on
total capital investment may not be an appropriate project benchmark. Rather the benchmark should be
financial sustainability of operations and maintenance. Indeed, current GOU policy emphasizes this latter
sustainability while providing for direct GOU subsidy for capital investments. It should be noted, however,
that if financial analyses were conducted during project preparation, this scenario could have been
anticipated and steps taken to reduce as much as possible the negative financial rates of return. Future
operations of this nature should carefully consider the foregoing as lessons learned.

While the systems are not returning positive financial returns on the investment in assets, they are
operationally sustainable i.e. meeting costs of operations and maintenance. Except for Rakai and Malaba,
all systems are either showing positive operating margins or are on the brink of breaking even. This is
evident from an analysis of the sales and cost trends in the small towns since operational startup. The
results of this analysis are presented graphically at the end of this Annex. It may be concluded that the
original project emphasis on meeting operations and maintenance costs are being met, albeit using a
different management model than originally envisaged. While financial rates of returns are negative (i.e.
there are no direct financial profits on the asset investments), the project is providing enhanced economic
benefits within a service delivery framework that is sustainable. Future operations should consider if, given
the partly social mandates of the water and sewerage services, positive financial returns should be expected
from capital investments in assets beyond the requirements of cost recovery for operations, maintenance
and eventual replacement.

Affordability:
The initial community mobilization activities combined with efforts later on to use demand assessment as a
key guiding principle for investment planning assisted residents in selecting a variety of technology options
to suit their preferences. Current options include point sources, kiosks, and domestic connections, which
are allowed to sell water to neighbours. This has resulted in widespread availability of outlets that have not
only led to much shorter distances to sources, but also in a drastically reduced average unit price of water.
Assuming an average per capita consumption of 10 lcd in low income households, an average price of
Ush25.00 per 20 litre jerrican, and a household size of 6, the estimated monthly water budget would be




                                                      - 29 -

Ush2,250 per household, which is 3% of the estimated monthly household income of Ush.80,000 . Without18


project, the estimated household water budget would be Ush. 9,000, i.e., 11% of the estimated income. The
on-going systems expansion will bring water even closer to a larger number of households. The policy to
subsidize the cost of access by lowering connection cost to households will further expand take up of
connections. With more connections at the towns, per capita consumption might well increase as the
number of people using a connection decreases.

Methodology and main assumptions

Financial Analysis

"Without project" scenario: The "without project" assumes that there were no operating water utilities in
the small towns prior to the project, except for Njeru which had been under the supply area of NWSC prior
to the project.

"With project" scenario: The "with project" assumes a total investment of US$25.9 million over the
construction period of the project. This excludes non-capital investment costs (such as training, operational
support to DWD and technical assistance consultancies not related to the design and construction of the
infrastructure). The cost overrun for the Second Water Supply Project financed under this Credit was also
excluded. Operational data (including sales and costs data) were obtained from two years of operations by
the private operators in the small towns. Conservatively, these have been assumed to stay constant over the
analysis horizon of 30 years (in reality: (i) sales are expected to increase over time given the increasing
demand and as evidenced by pending application for new connections in the small towns, and (ii) costs are
expected to decrease per unit of production with increasing competition among private operators for the
management contracts to operate these towns). In the case of Njeru, incremental cashflows were estimated
taking into account only the net incremental cashflows to NWSC from this operational area arising from
the Project alone.

Economic Analysis

"Without project" scenario: The "without project" is based on a continuation of the service levels
obtaining in the towns where many of the residents depended on unimproved point sources, and of the
technical and financial indicators for Jinja which existed as a utility. In the absence of the project, it would
be realistic to assume that the quality of service would have continued to further decline due to increased
pressure on the existing limited sources and increased unaccounted for water (UFW) in the small towns and
in Jinja respectively. Time spent collecting water would have increased or at least remained at the existing
high levels.

"With project" scenario: The "with project" assumes the following benefits resulting from an investment
of US$25.9 million19 under the project:

       ·   improved quality and reliability of service to all categories of consumers through domestic
           connections, kiosks and improved point sources;
       ·   increased coverage as a result of installation of 4,150 new connections, 100 new kiosks, and 177
           point sources;
       ·   reduced UFW, from about 58% to 27% in Jinja/Njeru, leading to daily sales of 30,000m3;
       ·   equitable distribution of water by providing private access to consumers who formerly relied on
           vendors;



                                                       - 30 -

       ·    incremental revenue generated which will ensure financial sustainability and enable the
            mini-utilities to deliver reliable and expanded service to customers;
       ·    an institutional framework and management model that ensures sustainable services to
            customers; and
       ·    reduced distances traveled and time spent in collecting water to less than 50 meters and about 15
            minutes respectively, for the majority of residents.

Time savings: Estimates on time spent collecting water in the various towns is based on information from a
sample of five small towns plus Jinja/Njeru. The averages for these towns have been applied to the five
                                20


other towns that were not covered by the Impact Study. Value of time spent collecting water was estimated
as 30% of the household expenditure of Ush.80,000 per month (used as a proxy for household income in
the towns) due to the possibility of low opportunity cost of time spent collecting water. Value of time
saved is added to the incremental financial flows.

Consumption at domestic connections, kiosks and point sources: This is assumed to be 20lcd on average
at domestic connections and 10lcd at kiosks and at point sources. This is based on the findings of the
Impact Study. Total volumes consumed from connections and kiosks are derived from the PO's
operational data. Estimated population served through domestic connections, kiosks and point sources is
78,000; 36,000; and 47,000 respectively.

Average price of water: average price "without project" is Ush100 and is Ush 25 per 20-litre jerrican
"with project". For the specific town calculations, the prices are based on actual information collected
during the Impact Study and on the PO's operational data.

Economic rate of return: This was estimated by discounting the new net resource flows by 10% as the
proxy for opportunity cost of capital in Uganda.


14/ This excludes the cost overrun for the second water supply project that was financed under the Credit.
15/ For the small towns, estimates are available only for the current revenue flows since the systems did not exist before this
project. Since Jinja/Njeru existed as a utility "without" project the adjustments have been made on the incremental financial
flows.
16/ The analysis uses the conservation assumption that water sales will not increase over time, which is unlikely given that
connections are expected to increase.
17/ The financial analysis assumes that the current sales will not increase over the analysis period (which is unlikely given that
the number of connections is expected to increase over time). This is a conservative assumption.
18/ The Impact Study estimated the total monthly household expenditure in the sample towns as averaging Ush.128,122.00,
ranging from Ush78,673 (Rakai) to Ush.167,263 (Rukungiri). This analysis assumes Ush80,000 to be the household
expenditure and uses this as the proxy for income in the towns.
19/ The benefits are assumed to accrue over a useful asset life of 30 years subject to proper maintenance.
20/ The 5 small towns in the sample were Wobulenzi, Rakai, Malaba, Ntungamo, and Rukungiri, in addition to Jinja/Njeru.




                                                               - 31 -

                                 Summary of Economic Adjustments, in Ush `000


Year                                      1995/96        1996/97        1997/98       1998/99      1999/2000
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow         (1,378,668)    (3,182,527)    (2,637,193)   (1,907,236)  (13,568,829)
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS FOR
VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS BY
DUE TO TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow                  (1,378,668)  (3,182,527)    (2,637,193)   (1,907,236)  (13,568,829)
Terminal Value                           (1,378,668)    (3,182,527)    (2,637,193)   (1,907,236)  (13,568,829)


Year                                        2000/2001      2001/2002      2002/2003     2003/2004   2004/2005
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow            (6,384,194)    (2,084,782)    (1,962,068)     239,228     239,228
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS FOR                         3,653,321      3,653,321     3,653,321   3,653,321
VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS BY DUE                          54,348        54,348        54,348      54,348
TO TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow                     (6,384,194)   1,622,888      1,745,601     3,946,898   3,946,898
Terminal Value                              (6,384,194)     1,622,888      1,745,601     3,946,898   3,946,898


Year                                           2005/2006    2006/2007     2007/2008     2008/2009   2009/2010
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow                  239,228      239,228       239,228      239,228     239,228
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS FOR               3,653,321   3,653,321    3,653,321     3,653,321   3,653,321
VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS BY DUE TO            54,348      54,348       54,348        54,348      54,348
TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow                         3,946,898   3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898
Terminal Value                                  3,946,898     3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898


Year                                           2010/2011    2011/2012     2012/2013     2013/2014   2014/2015
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow                  239,228      239,228       239,228      239,228     239,228
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS FOR               3,653,321   3,653,321    3,653,321     3,653,321   3,653,321
VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS BY DUE TO            54,348      54,348       54,348        54,348      54,348
TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow                         3,946,898   3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898
Terminal Value                                  3,946,898     3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898

Year                                           2015/2016    2016/2017     2017/2018     2018/2019   2019/2020
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow                  239,228      239,228       239,228      239,228     239,228
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS FOR               3,653,321   3,653,321    3,653,321     3,653,321   3,653,321
VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS BY DUE TO            54,348      54,348       54,348        54,348      54,348
TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow                         3,946,898   3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898
Terminal Value                                  3,946,898     3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898

Year                                           2020/2021    2021/2022     2022/2023     2023/2024   2024/2025
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow                  239,228      239,228       239,228      239,228     239,228
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS FOR               3,653,321   3,653,321    3,653,321     3,653,321   3,653,321
VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS BY DUE TO            54,348      54,348       54,348        54,348      54,348
TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow                         3,946,898   3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898
Terminal Value                                  3,946,898     3,946,898    3,946,898     3,946,898   3,946,898




                                                      - 32 -

Year                                2025/2026   2026/2027  2027/2028  2028/2029  2029/2030   2030/31
START: FIRR Incremental Cashflow       239,228     239,228    239,228    239,228    239,228    239,228
Adjust for:
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS       3,653,321  3,653,321  3,653,321  3,653,321  3,653,321  3,653,321
FOR VOLUMES PROVIDED BY PROJECT
Add: ANNUAL EXPENDITURE SAVINGS          54,348     54,348     54,348     54,348     54,348     54,348
BY DUE TO TIME SAVINGS
EIRR Incremental Cashflow             3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898
Terminal Value                       3,946,898   3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898  3,946,898




                                                 - 33 -

                                                              Analysis of the Sales and Cost trends in the Small Towns

Lugazi

                                                                        LUGAZI




                                                                                                                 Water Sales
                     12
                                                                                                                                                              Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                     10                                                                                          Bills collected       Ave. Sales                  5,516,976        6,715,448
                                                                                                                                       Ave. Bill Collection        4,902,666        5,395,920
                      8                                                                                                                Ave. % Collection                  89%              80%

                                                                                                                 Total Fees            Ave. Fees Payable           3,891,067        4,506,294
  Ush                 6                                                                                          Payable               Ave. Fees Paid              3,448,039        3,999,159
     mil                                                                                                                               % Fees Paid                        89%              89%
                      4
                                                                                                                 Actual Total          Ave Water Prod (m3)             8,551           11,173
                                                                                                                 Fees Paid             Ave Water Sold (m3)             5,294             6,225
                      2                                                                                                                % UfW                              38%              44%
                                                                                                                                       Sales / Payable                    1.42             1.49
                      0                                                                                                                Collection / Payable               1.26             1.20
                                                                                                                                       Ave Connections                    188              252
                     Jul-01  Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02   Jul-02  Sep-02 Nov-02  Jan-03  Mar-03                                Ave Vol per Conn                    28               25
                                                                                                                                       Tariff                            1000             1000


Luwero

                                                                         LUWERO


                                                                                                           Water Sales

                         7
                                                                                                           Bills collected
                         6                                                                                                                                   Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                                                                                                                                       Ave. Sales                3,810,250        4,222,800
                         5                                                                                 Total Fees                  Ave. Bill Collection      2,578,311        2,812,653
                                                                                                           Payable
                                                                                                                                       Ave. % Collection                68%             67%
                         4                                                                                 Actual Total                Ave. Fees Payable         3,531,931        3,726,104
              Ush                                                                                          Fees Paid                   Ave. Fees Paid            2,712,083        3,034,069
                 mil     3
                                                                                                                                       % Fees Paid                      77%             81%
                         2                                                                                                             Ave Water Prod (m3)               na               na
                                                                                                                                       Ave Water Sold (m3)            3,810            4,223
                         1                                                                                                             % UfW                             na               na
                                                                                                                                       Sales / Payable                  1.08             1.13
                         0                                                                                                             Collection / Payable             0.73             0.75
                                                                                                                                       Ave Connections                  293             317
                       Jul-01Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03                                     Ave Vol per Conn                  13               13
                                                                                                                                       Tariff                           -               1000


Busia

                                                                           BUSIA




                     10                                                                                              Water Sales

                      9
                                                                                                                                                             Jul 01 - Apr 03  Jul 02 - Apr 03
                      8                                                                                              Bills collected
                                                                                                                                       Ave. Sales                 4,714,397       4,911,389
                      7                                                                                                                Ave. Bill Collection       3,995,072       4,015,556
                                                                                                                     Total Fees
                      6                                                                                                                Ave. % Collection                 85%             82%
                                                                                                                     Payable
        Ush           5                                                                                                                Ave. Fees Payable          2,871,509       2,820,846
                                                                                                                     Actual Total      Ave. Fees Paid             2,373,263       2,427,040
           mil        4                                                                                              Fees Paid         % Fees Paid                       83%             86%
                      3                                                                                                                Ave Water Prod (m3)             5,860           6,135

                      2                                                                                                                Ave Water Sold (m3)             3,651           3,814
                                                                                                                                       % UfW                             38%             38%
                      1                                                                                                                Sales / Payable                   1.64            1.74
                      0                                                                                                                Collection / Payable              1.39            1.42
                                                                                                                                       Ave Connections                   197             222
                     Jul-01  Sep-01 Nov-01  Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02    Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03                                 Ave Vol per Conn                   19               17
                                                                                                                                       Tariff                           1307             1344


Malaba




                                                                                                                         - 34 -

                                                                       MALABA


                                                                                                                                                             Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                       7                                                                                          Water Sales         Ave. Sales                  2,684,581       2,999,885
                                                                                                                  Ush                 Ave. Bill Collection        2,208,041       2,579,110
                       6                                                                                          Bills collected     Ave. % Collection                  82%             86%
                                                                                                                  Ush                 Ave. Fees Payable           3,311,363       3,981,586
                       5                                                                                                              Ave. Fees Paid              2,366,903       3,081,250
                                                                                                                  Total Fees          % Fees Paid                        71%             77%
                       4                                                                                          Payable
                                                                                                                                      Ave Water Prod (m3)             1,814            2,060
   Ush
                                                                                                                  Actual Total        Ave Water Sold (m3)             1,663            1,912
      mil              3                                                                                          FeesPaid            % UfW                               8%              7%
                       2                                                                                                              Sales / Payable                    0.81            0.75
                                                                                                                                      Collection / Payable               0.67            0.65
                       1


                       0
                                                                                                                                      Ave Connections                     63              68
                      Jul-01 Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02Mar-02 May-02    Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03                                  Ave Vol per Conn                    26              28
                                                                                                                                      Tariff                            1665             1665


Lyantonde

                                                                    LYANTONDE



                                                                                                                                                            Jul 01 - Apr 03  Jul 02 - Apr 03
                         7
                                                                                                                                      Ave. Sales                 3,277,154       3,638,850
                         6                                                                                           Water Sales      Ave. Bill Collection       3,288,912       3,453,457
                                                                                                                     Ush              Ave. % Collection               100%              95%
                         5                                                                                                            Ave. Fees Payable          3,538,479       3,708,401
                                                                                                                     Bills collected
                                                                                                                                      Ave. Fees Paid             2,303,809       2,436,402
                         4                                                                                           Ush

               Ush                                                                                                                    % Fees Paid                       65%             66%
                                                                                                                     Total Fees       Ave Water Prod (m3)             2,379           2,607
                  mil    3                                                                                           Payable          Ave Water Sold (m3)             2,199           2,426
                         2                                                                                           Actual Total     % UfW                              8%              7%
                                                                                                                     Fees Paid        Sales / Payable                   0.93            0.98
                         1                                                                                                            Collection / Payable              0.93            0.93

                         0

                                                                                                                                      Ave Connections                   211             223
                       Jul-01Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02    Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03                                 Ave Vol per Conn                   10              11
                                                                                                                                      Tariff                           1500             1500


Ntungamo

                                                                   NTUNGAMO


                                                                                                        Water Sales
                                                                                                        Ush                                                 Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                       10
                                                                                                        Bills collected               Ave. Sales                2,638,081       3,199,417
                         9                                                                              Ush                           Ave. Bill Collection      2,524,590       3,054,220
                         8                                                                                                            Ave. % Collection                96%             95%
                                                                                                        Total Fees
                         7                                                                                                            Ave. Fees Payable         2,841,101       3,031,743
                                                                                                        Payable
                         6                                                                                                            Ave. Fees Paid            2,434,972       3,796,345
                                                                                                        Actual Total                  % Fees Paid                      86%            125%
         Ush             5                                                                              Fees Paid                     Ave Water Prod (m3)            2,301           2,809
            mil          4                                                                                                            Ave Water Sold (m3)            2,263           2,726
                         3                                                                                                            % UfW                             2%              3%
                         2                                                                                                            Sales / Payable                  0.93            1.06

                         1                                                                                                            Collection / Payable             0.89            1.01

                         0

                                                                                                                                      Ave Connections                  172             181
                       Jul-01Sep-01 Nov-01Jan-02Mar-02May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02Jan-03 Mar-03                                        Ave Vol per Conn                  13              15
                                                                                                                                      Tariff                          1170            1170


Rakai




                                                                                                                       - 35 -

                                                                         RAKAI


                          7

                          6
                                                                                                        Water Sales                                   Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                                                                                                                                Ave. Sales                1,454,600       1,510,072
                          5                                                                             Ush
                                                                                                                                Ave. Bill Collection      1,389,409       1,516,260
                                                                                                                                Ave. % Collection                96%            100%
                          4                                                                             Bills collected
                                                                                                        Ush                     Ave. Fees Payable         2,316,350       2,399,207
              Ushilm                                                                                                            Ave. Fees Paid            1,160,211       1,381,454
                          3                                                                             Total Fees              % Fees Paid                      50%             58%
                                                                                                        Payable                 Ave Water Prod (m3)            1,535           1,605
                          2                                                                                                     Ave Water Sold (m3)              813             821
                                                                                                        Actual Total            % UfW                            47%             49%
                          1                                                                             Fees Paid               Sales / Payable                  0.63            0.63
                                                                                                                                Collection / Payable             0.60            0.63
                          0


                         Jul-01 Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02May-02  Jul-02Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03                            Ave Connections                  113             128
                                                                                                                                Ave Vol per Conn                   7                6
                                                                                                                                Tariff                            NA            1910



Kalisizo

                                                                        KALISIZO



                          7
                                                                                                                                                       Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                          6                                                                                   Water Sales       Ave. Sales                  2,751,127        3,436,547
                                                                                                              Ush               Ave. Bill Collection        2,542,864        3,130,557
                          5                                                                                                     Ave. % Collection                  92%              91%
                                                                                                              Bills collected
                          4                                                                                   Ush               Ave. Fees Payable           2,210,967        2,413,165
        Ush                                                                                                                     Ave. Fees Paid              1,816,190        2,454,154
                                                                                                                                % Fees Paid                        82%             102%
           mil            3                                                                                   Total Fees
                                                                                                              Payable           Ave Water Prod (m3)              2,722            3,163
                          2                                                                                                     Ave Water Sold (m3)              2,352            2,938
                                                                                                              Actual Total      % UfW                              14%               7%
                          1                                                                                   Fees Paid         Sales / Payable                    1.24             1.42
                                                                                                                                Collection / Payable               1.15             1.30
                          0


                         Jul-01                                                                                                 Ave Connections                    186              205
                                Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02 May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03Mar-03
                                                                                                                                Ave Vol per Conn                    13               14
                                                                                                                                Tariff                             1170            1170



Rukungiri

                                                                       RUKUNGIRI


                     10
                     9
                                                                                                              Water Sales                             Jul 01 - Apr 03 Jul 02 - Apr 03
                     8                                                                                        Ush              Ave. Sales                  2,686,090       3,292,704
                     7                                                                                                         Ave. Bill Collection        2,819,686       3,298,749

                     6                                                                                        Bills collected  Ave. % Collection                105%            100%
                                                                                                              Ush              Ave. Fees Payable           3,068,316       3,324,086
  Ushilm             5                                                                                                         Ave. Fees Paid              2,657,927       3,377,955
                     4                                                                                        Total Fees       % Fees Paid                       87%            102%
                     3                                                                                        Payable          Ave Water Prod (m3)             3,297            3,974

                     2                                                                                                         Ave Water Sold (m3)             2,376            2,951
                                                                                                              Actual Total
                                                                                                                               % UfW                             28%              26%
                     1                                                                                        Fees Paid
                                                                                                                               Sales / Payable                   0.88             0.99
                     0                                                                                                         Collection / Payable              0.92             0.99


                     Jul-01   Sep-01 Nov-01 Jan-02 Mar-02  May-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Jan-03 Mar-03
                                                                                                                               Ave Connections                   211              231
                                                                                                                               Ave Vol per Conn                    11              13
                                                                                                                               Tariff                              NA            1170




                                                                                                       - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year        Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation/
 Preappraisal
               06/1990                         2    1 SME/TL; 1 SE
               04/1991                         1    1 SE
               10/1991                         3    1 SME/TL, 1 SE, 1 Inst. Sp
               07/1992                         8    1 SME, 1 LGS, 3 SE, 1 RIS, 1
                                                    Inst.Sp, 1 FA

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               04/1993                       10     1 SME/TL, 1 WSE, 1 PE, 1
                                                    TS, 1 UFS, 2 SE, 1 OpA, 1
                                                    Inst.Sp, 1 RIS

 Supervision
               07/1995 (assume                      1 SME/TL
               1 wk)
               03/19/1996                      4    1 SME/TL, 1 OpO, 1 SE, 1 WSE            S              S
               08/29/1996                      5    1 SME/TL, 1 WSE, 1 SE, 1                S              S
                                                    CDS, 1 OpO
               02/20/1997                      5    1 SWSS, 1 WSE, 2 SE, 1 CDS,             S              S
               10/10/1997                      5    1 WSE/ML, 1 SSE, 1 SE, 1 CDS,           S              S
                                                    1 OpO
               05/11/1998                      4    1 PWSS, 1 WSE, 1 SE, 1 CDS              S              S
               03/1999                         4    1 PWSS, 2 SE, 1 CDS                     S              S
               10/1999                         1    1 PWSS                                  S              S
               07/2000                         3    1 SSE/ML, 1 SE, 1 FA                    S              S
               02/2001                         3    1 SSE/ML, 1 SSE, 1 FA                   S              S
               11/2001                         4    1 SSE/ML, 1 SSE, 1 FA, 1 ECO            S              S
               06/2002                         4    1 SSE/ML, 1 SSE, 1 SFA, 1               S              S
                                                    ECO
               05/2003                         4    1 SSE/ML, 1 SSE, 1 SFA, 1               S              S
                                                    ECO

 ICR
               07/2003                         1     1 ECO                                  S              S

TL ­ Team Leader;                                               SME ­ Snr. Municipal Engineer
ML ­ Mission Leader                                             SE ­ Sanitary Engineer
RIS ­ Rural Infrastructure Specialist,                          WSE ­ Water Supply Engineer
SWSS ­ Snr Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist               OpO ­ Operations Officer
OpA ­ Operations Analyst                                        FA ­ Financial Analyst
SFA ­ Snr. Financial Analyst                                    ECO ­ Economist
CDS ­ Community Development Specialist                          PE ­ Procurement Specialist
PWSS ­ Principal Water Supply & Sanitation Specialist           TS ­ Training Specialist
UFS ­ Urban Financial Specialist                                LGS - Local Government Specialist
InstSp ­ Institutional Specialist                               SSE ­ Snr. Sanitary Engineer

(b) Staff:



                                                     - 37 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                               No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation/              44                        134.8
Preappraisal
Appraisal/Negotiation                    20                        137.3
Supervision                              92                        479.8
ICR                                       2                           2.0
Total                                  158                         753.9




                                          - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Staff Appraisal Report ­ February 17, 1994
l Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ February 17, 1994
l Supervision Mission Aide memoires
l Report of the Mid Term Review
l Aide Memoires for PRSC I, II and III.
l Video on Water Supply for Small Towns in Uganda
l Performance Reviews
l Impact Assessment Study on the Small Towns Water Supply Project, August 2003
l Stakeholders workshop report, May 2003




                                             - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

UGANDA - SMALL TOWNS WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT IDA CR.2583-UG.
            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT BY THE BORROWER

                                       1.0     BACKGROUND

1.1   The Small Towns Water and sanitation Project (STWSP) was formulated by Government of
      Uganda to address the water and sanitation needs in the small towns. The Project was appraised by
      the World Bank in April 1993 and comprised of three components/Parts. Part A covered the
      provision of water and sanitation infrastructure in one of the packages of eleven towns consisting
      of Wobulenzi, Lugazi, Luwero, Busia, Malaba, Kyotera, Kalisizo, Rakai, Lyantonde, Ntungamo
      and Rukungiri. Part B involved water and sewerage civil works construction for Jinja/Njeru Area
      with some institutional support elements for National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC).
      It should be noted that originally the water and sewerage infrastructure expansion for Jinja town
      was meant to be part of an earlier multi-donor funded Second Water Supply Project. However,
      when the Italian Government, which was expected to provide the necessary financial support
      through this project pulled out, Jinja Town was combined with neighbouring Njeru Town as
      Jinja/Njeru Area and included as part B of the STWSP.

      On the other hand, Part C of the project involved technical assistance and the institutional
      strengthening of the Directorate of Water Development (DWD), Local Governments and the
      beneficiary communities. Parts A&C were implemented DWD while NWSC was the
      implementation agency for Part B.

1.2   The DCA was signed on May 3, 1994 but Credit effectiveness delayed until August 1, 1995 and
      disbursements could only start on December 18, 1995 after compliance with the Credit
      Conditionalities.

                         2.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND COSTS

2.1   Development Objectives

      The broader objective of the project was to support the Government's economic recovery program
      by upgrading or rehabilitating water supply and sanitation systems in towns already served and
      establishing new facilities in towns not yet covered. The project aimed specifically at:

      (i)   Improving health conditions through better water supply, excreta disposal, wastewater
            management, and public hygiene.
      (ii) Alleviating poverty and improving the lot of women
      (iii) Reducing environmental degradation through better waste management

2.2   Project Components

      The main project components were:

      (i)     Construction and rehabilitation/ expansion of the water and sanitation facilities.
      (ii)    Hygiene education related to water supply and sanitation.



                                                  - 42 -

         (iii)    Mobilization of Communities to participate in planning, implementation, operation,
                  maintenance and management of water supply and sanitation facilities.
         (ii)     Institutional strengthening, technical assistance and training of water sector organizations.

2.3      Project Costs
2.3.1    The total project cost for Part A and C was initially estimated at US $ 22.9 million out of which
IDA was to finance up to US $ 20.4 million and the balance of US $ 2.5 million was to be provided by
Government and the Beneficiary Communities. The breakdown of the budget was as indicated in the table
below. At project completion, the total cost for Part A and C of the project was about US $ 25.00 as
summarized in table 1.

Table1: Project budget and costs for Parts A&C
           DESCRIPTION                        BUDGET IN US $                        ACTUAL IN US $
                                         Total         IDA          GoU          Total     IDA Portion     GoU Share
                                                     Portion       Share
Civil Works                              11.91         9.59         2.32         12.37         7.95           4.42
Equipment and Materials                    2.38        2.38          -            1.97         1.97            -
Consulting Services and Training           6.32        6.32          -            7.57         7.47           0.10
Operating Costs                            0.89        0.71         0.18          1.86         1.32           0.54
Reimbursement of PPF                       1.20        1.20          -            1.20         1.20            -
               TOTAL                     22.70        20.20         2.50         24.97        19.91           5.06


The main cause of the increase in the project cost was the additional scope of work. The main elements
which attributed to the increase in the scope of work are indicated in the table 2.

Table 2: Comparison of Scope of Work at Appraisal and at Completion
           DESCRIPTION                     PLANNED AT APPRAISAL                    ACTUAL AT COMPLETION
Design Population                              156,000 for Year 2005                   240,000 for Year 2010
Combined     Water    Supply    System             2,500m3/day                             5,200m3/day
Production Capacity
Pipeline Length                                      41,400m                                190,700m
No. of Connections                              250 No. Stand pipes            2,589 House Connections and 104 Stand
                                                                                              pipes


The Government Policy decision to promote house connections in the project towns in order to improve
access to the services and also encourage higher water consumption levels so as to increase the revenues
generated from water sales, resulted in increased pipeline length.

2.3.2 The total project cost for Part B was estimated at US$25.30 million. At project completion, the total
cost for component B was US$ 22.45. The summary of these costs are summarized in Table 3

Table 3 : Project budget and costs for Parts B
DESCRIPTION                             BUDGET IN US $                       ACTUAL IN US $
                                         Total         IDA          GoU          Total     IDA Portion     GoU Share
                                                     Portion       Share
Civil Works                              17.01        13.85         3.16         7.27          6.26           1.01
SWSP Cost Overruns (Civil Works)           -             -           -           6.16          6.16            -
Consultancy Services                                                 -           5.34          5.32           0.02
                                          6.09         6.09
SWSP     cost   overruns    (Consultancy    -            -           -           0.42          0.42            -
Services )



                                                     - 43 -

Materials Equipment and Vehicles       1.68         1.68          -           2.47           2.07        0.4
Operating expenses                     0.22         0.18        0.04          0.47           0.34       0.13
Refund of the PPF                      0.30         0.30          -           0.32           0.32        -
TOTAL                                  25.30       22.10        3.20          22.45         20.89      1.56


During Mid-Term Review, Part B of the project was restructured to provide financing for the Second
Water Supply Project, studies for the reform of the urban water and sanitation sub-sector, construction of
community water and sanitation facilities in Jinja/Njeru water supply service area, consultancy services of
a Transaction Advisor for procuring a management contract for Kampala water supply service area.

                                 3.0     PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS

3.1      Civil Works Construction (Parts A&C)

Water Supply Systems: - Construction of civil works for piped water supply systems and point sources in
the ten project towns were completed before the original closing date of the project and are currently
serving about 178,000 people. Due to budgetary constraints, water supply to Kyotera town was not
implemented but two deep production wells were drilled and pipes stocked. The scope of work undertaken
in each town is summarised in table 4.




                                                   - 44 -

- 45 -

Sanitation:-
Sanitation activities were however prioritised on the basis of the available funds offering an opportunity to
the beneficiary communities to determine what they considered as their priority. The table below compares
the original plan versus what the beneficiary communities envisaged as their priority at the time of
construction.

Table 5 : Sanitation facilities; Planned Versus Achieved

                   TOWNS             Plan at Appraisal                         Actual Achievement

           Wobulenzi              800 SanPlats           12 No. Refuse Bunkers and 9 No. Public Toilets constructed and
                                                         One Tractor with Trailer supplied for Solid Waste Management.
           Luwero                 800 SanPlats           3 km of Storm Water drainage Constructed
           Lugazi                 800 SanPlats           10 No. Public Toilets constructed
           Busia                  800 SanPlats           3 km of Drainage and 5 No. Public Toilets constructed
           Malaba                 800 SanPlats           3 km of storm water Drainage constructed
           Kalisizo               800 SanPlats           8 No. Refuse Bunkers and 2 No. Public Toilets constructed and
                                                         One Tractor with Trailer supplied for Solid Waste Management.
           Lyantonde              800 SanPlats           6 No. Refuse Bunkers and 6 No. Public Toilets constructed
           Ntungamo               800 SanPlats           4 No. Public Toilets, 4 No. Refuse Bunkers and 4km of Drainage
                                                         channel constructed
           Rukungiri              800 SanPlats           5 No. Public Toilets and 5 No. Refuse Bunkers constructed
           Rakai                  800 SanPlats           2 No. Public Toilets and 5 No. Refuse Bunkers constructed and
                                                         One Tractor with Trailer supplied for Solid Waste Management.
           Kyotera                800 SanPlats           4 No. Refuse Bunkers, 2 No. Public Toilets and 1 km of
                                                         Drainage channels constructed
           Septage Emptying Sites Development of 3 No.                               None
                                  Sites
           Vacuum Tankers         Purchase of 2 No.                                   None
                                  Vacuum Tankers


Institutional Strengthening for DWD: - Vehicles were procured for DWD headquarters and the District
Water Offices. DWD head office buildings were refurbished and equipped with modern computers and
office furniture. Offices were also constructed in each of the project towns and equipped with basic
furniture. These town offices are currently being used by the Urban Water Authorities Boards and the
Private Operators in operating and managing the water supply systems.




                                                    - 46 -

3.2     Civil works construction for Part B

Table 6: Civil Works Construction for Part B


   CONTRACT       SCOPE OF WORK                                                  TOTAL        REMARKS
                                                                               COST US $
   Jinja Njeru    Works involved supply and installation and construction of                  Revenue     improved,
   construction   pipelines, mechanical and electrical equipment at the Water                 the town has attained
   Contract       Treatment Plant; as well as expansion of the distribution                   full cost recovery and
                  system. The work involved                                                   reduced UFW from
                    l Replacement of the surge protection equipment at                        57% to 23%
                    l Replacement of the chlorination equipment                 5.81million
                    l Reproofing of the Water treatment plant                      US $
                    l Supply and installation of new pipelines.
                    l Search and replacement of leaking pipes, fittings and
                      connections resulting in reduction of UFW from 57% to
                      the current 23%
                    l Supply and installation of 1500 new consumer
                      connections including their water meters.
                    l Supply and installation of panelled stell tank of 1000
                      m3
                    l Replacement of 4 raw water pumps and two high lift
                      pumps
                    l Supply and installation of the MCC panel at the Water
                      treatment Plant
                    l Installation of an line booster to serve the Njeru
                      sub-system
   Malaba Bulk    3       Extended water supply from Tororo to malaba town    0.77 million US Revenue for Tororo
   Water Supply           via a transmission pipeline of 11 km                      $         has improved and
                                                                                              enabled the new water
                                                                                              system for Malaba to
                                                                                              receive water
   Community      4       Water mains were extended in the peri-urban and      0.30 million   Water supply for the
   Water Supply           poorest sections in Jinja through selected and           US $       urban poor improved.
   and                    targeted mains extension
   Sanitation


(b)      Equipment and Materials

   The following were procured:-

        l Vehicles and office equipment to enhance NWSC operations.
        l Laboratory Chemicals and Equipment
        l Water Treatment Chemicals
        l Sewer maintenance equipment including a jetting tanker


(c)      The following consultancies were implemented.

        l Design and supervision for the rehabilitation and expansion of Jinja/Njeru water supply and
             sanitation systems
        l Community management studies for Jinja/Njeru
        l Gulu source investigation and rehabilitation studies




                                                           - 47 -

        l Studies for the reform of the Uganda urban water and sanitation sub-sector
        l Consultancy services of a transaction advisor for procuring a management contract for
             Kampala water supply service area
3.3      Other Achievements.

3.3.1    The outcome of the urban water sector reform studies gave the impetus to NWSC to improve
operation and financial performance. The reform studies recommended separation of the overarching roles
viz. Asset Management and Investment, Regulation and Operations. The period pre- 1998, Government
inadequately supervised NWSC with regard to its performance. In 2000 Government introduced a
Performance Contract with Government being represented by the Ministry of Finance and NWSC being
represented by its Board of Directors as the parties to the contract. NWSC has since restructured itself with
its Areas operating as quasi-private operators and NWSC top management providing the supervision and
monitoring functions.



    4.0 ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION

4.1     Assessment of Project Objectives:

4.1.1    The broader development objective of supporting the Government's economic recovery program by
extending the rehabilitation and upgrading of water and sanitation services to the selected urban towns was
pertinent given the impact of improved health, arising out of provision of water and sanitation services, has
on economic development. Furthermore, availability of water and sanitation infrastructure in urban area
promotes the development of commercial and industrial activities which contribute to economic growth.

  4.2    Assessment of Project Design:

4.2.1      In designing the project, there was at that time little experience globally on service provision to
small towns, the small towns set ups were equated to upgraded rural areas. Some concepts and principles
applicable to the implementation and management of rural water and sanitation infrastructure were
replicated in the design of the project. However, following the Mid-Term Review, and after assessing the
performance of the pilot Water User Association in Wobulenzi Town, a new management strategy was
developed whereby delivery of services was vested in the hands of private operators to ensure that
technical, financial and commercial operations are executed professionally.

4.2.2     Furthermore, in designing the project, little attention was given to the realisation of the specific
project objective of improving health conditions through waste water management and reduction of
environmental degradation through better waste management by proposing appropriate institutional
arrangement for the delivery of these services and allocation of commensurate budget.

  4.3    Assessment of Project Implementation:

  4.3.1 The project implementation sequence initially followed the steps defined in the Policies and
  Guidelines of the Rural Towns Water and Sanitation Program. However, this approach was found
  inappropriate and this called for restructuring of the project during the Mid- Term Review to address the
  initial project weaknesses and put the project on a strong sustainability path.

                         5.0     ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS




                                                     - 48 -

5.1     The Project developed capacity within the Directorate of Water Development and National Water
and Sewerage Corporation. The Project Management Team which was coordinated and supervised the
Project with little Technical Assistance has acquired tremendous knowledge and skills needed to manage
any other project.

5.2.1   Under Part A &C, construction of piped water supply systems and 177 point sources in the towns
of Wobulenzi , Luweero, Lugazi, Busia, Malaba, Kalisizo, Rakai, Lyantonde, Ntungamo and Rukungiri
were satisfactorily completed and all the systems are fully operational. These investments have resulted in
improved and reliable water supply services to currently estimated population of 178,000 people, which
significantly exceed the SAR target of 156,000 design population. Moreover, the current installed systems
capacities can serve a projected population of about 240,000 people. On the sanitation side, in spite of the
limited budget, basic sanitation infrastructure based on the prioritised needs of the towns has been
provided.

5.3     Under Part B, rehabilitation and expansion of water works were carried out in Jinja- Njeru Water
Area resulting in the reduction of Unaccounted for Water from 57% to 23%, increased metered connections
by 1500 which has enabled the Jinja-Njeru Water Supply Area to realise full cost recovery.

5.4     According to the assessment carried out by M/s Norplan Uganda Limited, an independent
consultant, the project is evaluated to have made a significant impact towards improving health conditions
in the project towns, through better water supply, both in terms of quantity and quality. It is estimated that
up to 90.7% of the total town population, compared to 5% at the start of the project have access to clean
and safe water. The time spent collecting water and the distance to the water sources have greatly improved
and the level of congestion is low. The reported incidences of water borne diseases after the project is very
low compared with what prevailed before the project. The cost of water is also now affordable at about Shs
25/= per 20l jerry can compared to shs 100 -200/= per jerry can before the project.

5.5     During project implementation, the town residents expressed demand for house connections and the
project responded swiftly by introducing subsidies to the individual connections which contributed to the
improvement of access to the services and also made the water supply systems commercially and
financially viable.

5.6     As a result of the Wobulenzi Town experience, where a Water User Association management
model had been piloted, a fundamental change in the management concept was introduced where by a
"Mini-Utility" model which would ensure separation of asset ownership, oversight governance and day to
day operations was applied in the management of the small towns water systems with extremely great
success. The use of professional private operators has ensured reliable and high quality service. This
management model has now being replicated in the other small towns' country wide.

5.7     A number of towns are now breaking even on operation and maintenance costs, a sure sign that the
services and the facilities provided under the project are going to be sustainable.

                                      6.0 BANK'S PERFORMANCE

6.1     Although there was a high turnover of task managers (four of them) over the project period, this
did not have adverse effect on the execution of the project. Throughout project implementation, there was a
common understanding for the need to provide reliable, affordable and sustainable services to the people in
the project towns and whoever was appointed would work towards achieving the above. The Bank Team is
commended for their flexible approach in handling project implementation issues. Whenever a challenging


                                                    - 49 -

problem arose, the Bank Team would discuss the issue with the Government Team to arrive at consensus
on the way forward. This method of work contributed heavily to the realisation of the achievements
mentioned earlier.

6.2      The Supervision Missions were regular and the most important being the Mid-Term Review. The
deliberations reached during the Mid-Term Review greatly improved the outcomes of the project. Regular
missions and mid-project reviews provided a very effective forum for resolving contentious issues
impacting project implementation.

6.3      Responses to requests for "no objection" were always timely and replenishment of the Special
Account was always without undue delay.

6.4      Introducing conditions of effectiveness and disbursement that were beyond the control of the
implementation agencies resulted in delay in commencing project activities and a lot of time and effort were
initially wasted.

6.5      Based on the above assessment, the Bank's performance is rated highly satisfactory especially
during implementation phase where proactive decisions were taken to turn around what would have been
unsustainable investments into sustainable infrastructure.

7.0      BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

7.1      The Government of Uganda provided a dedicated team of professions who took charge in the
preparation and implementation of the project. The Project Management Team had very limited support
from Technical Advisors as was mostly the case of many other Donor financed projects. The Team
exercised professionalism in managing project activities to ensure that quality out puts were delivered and
costs controlled.

7.2      Apart from the Luweero Water Supply contract, where the contractor M/s Combined Services
failed to deliver and the contract had to be terminated, all the other contracts were executed without serious
contractual problems.

7.3      The Government was able to raise about US$ 5 million as counterpart funds as opposed to the US$
2.5 million specified in the Development Credit Agreement to finance the increased scope of work and also
to prop the shortfall on the Bank budget due to the appreciation of the Dollar/SDR exchange rate.

7.4      On the other hand, Government did not fair well during credit negotiations when no credible
representation was voiced on some of the credit conditionalities. Also during project implementation,
control of consultants inputs was not strictly exercised especially the foreign input. This led to
proportionally high expenditure on consultancy budget.

7.5      Based on the above assessment, the Borrower's performance is also rated very satisfactory.

                                        8.0        LESSONS LEARNT

 8.1     The small towns' water systems are fairly complex piped network, more like small versions of the
typical large urban water supply system which should be planned, developed and managed as "simplified
urban systems" rather than as "upgraded rural water systems".




                                                     - 50 -

8.2        In order to enhance transparency and accountability in the management of the small towns water
supply systems, there is need to ensure separation of responsibilities for asset ownership, governance and
oversight and day-to-day operations.

8.3       The requirement for communities and individual households to contribute towards the capital costs
is not achievable in an urban setting where there are heterogeneous and transient population and the
majority of the people are tenants. Any form of contribution should be directed to the appropriate local
government.

8.4      Efforts should be made to balance investments between water production systems and water
distribution networks in order to realise full benefits from the investments.

8.5     The use of professional private operator in the operation and management of the small towns' water
supply systems when properly supervised can ensure reliable, high quality and sustainable services.

8.6    Local consultants should be utilised as much as possible to reduce on the overall consultancy
expenditure and avail more resources for infrastructure development.




                                                      - 51 -

- 52 -

