f7'; ~.C?AL
CREDIT NUMBER 2583 UG
Project Agreement
(Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Dated      //I, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2583 UG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    /1CO ay                 , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL
WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION (NWSC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million    four   hundred   thousand   Special    Drawing   Rights
(SDR 30,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NWSC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NWSC, a portion of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
relent to NWSC on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NWSC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NWSC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and sanitary practices, and


﻿- 2 -
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part B
of the Project.
Section 2.02. NWSC shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
(Special Account B) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for Part B of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. NWSC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and  schedules,   records  and   reports,  maintenance   and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
Section 2.05. NWSC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, NWSC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) NWSC shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   NWSC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NWSC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NWSC
Section 3.01. NWSC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
sanitary practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. NWSC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
sanitary practices.
Section 3.03. NWSC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. NWSC shall, during the execution of Part B of
the Project, establish and maintain adequate staffing for Project
implementation, with functions, responsibilities, experience, and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The senior staff
shall include, inter alia, a Project Manager, an engineer, a socio-
economist, an accountant and a technical advisor for a minimum of
two years from the Effective Date.
Section 3.05. NWSC shall: (i) improve its billing and
collection efficiency to at least the following percentages by the
end of each of its fiscal years: 66% in FY 1995, 77% in FY 1997 and
82% in the subsequent years; (ii) maintain efficient billing
operations so that arrears on total billing are no more than three
months: and (iii) reduce arrears by consumers by continuing to
promptly disconnect the supply of water to delinquent consumers.
Section 3.06. NWSC shall complete: (a) not later than
September 30, 1995, a water demand study in Jinja and Njeru; and (b)
not later than September 30, 1996, a limnological study in Jinja,
Njeru, Kampala and Entebbe.
Section 3.07. NWSC shall prepare and implement a resettlement
program, satisfactory to the Association and duly approved by the
appropriate agencies of the Borrower, for the relocation, including


﻿-4-
compensation, of all families living on sites required for the
carrying out of Part B of the Project.
Section 3.08. NWSC shall be fully responsible for the
operation, maintenance and replacement (OMR) functions for water
supply and sewerage through revenue collected from tariffs.
Section 3.09. NWSC shall carry out upgrading or construction
of pit latrines, septic tanks and public latrines and hygiene
education, in collaboration with MOH and MOLG and under the overall
responsibility of (i) Jinja Municipal Council, for activities in
Jinja, and (ii) Njeru Town Council in collaboration with DWD, for
activities in Njeru.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NWSC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   NWSC shall:
(i)    have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year  audited,   in  accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish    to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit


﻿- 5 -
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
NWSC shall undertake a valuation of the fixed assets of the water
supply and sewerage facilities in Jinja and Njeru by June 30, 1997
in accordance with sound methods of valuation, acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) NWSC shall take all necessary actions to
adjust, as and when necessary, the level or structure of its
tariffs, to ensure that funds will be generated from internal
sources equivalent to at least 20% of its capital expenditures.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NWSC
shall, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
June 30, 1994, produce funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 20% of NWSC's capital expenditures for the relevant fiscal
year.
(c)   Before July 31 in each of its fiscal years, starting
July 31, 1994, NWSC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
NWSC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(d)   If any of such review shows that NWSC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for NWSC' s fiscal years
covered by such review, NWSC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments, on a quarterly
or more frequent basis, if required, of the structure or levels of
its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)    the term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related    to    operations,     consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net
non-operating income; and


﻿-6-
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related   to
operations,   including   administration,
adequate  maintenance   and   taxes   and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
provision for depreciation and other non-
cash operating charges), debt service
requirements, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, and other
cash   outflows   other    than   capital
expenditures.
(ii)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments   (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(iv)   The  term  "capital  expenditures"  means   all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed
assets,    including   interest   charged    to
construction, related to operations.
(v)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Association.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Associatior, and of NWSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which   the Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NWSC of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For NWSC:
National Water and Sewerage Corporation
P.O. Box 7053
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                Telex:
WATERS                    61265 NATURAL
Kampala
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NWSC, or by NWSC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the
Managing Director shall designate in writing, and NWSC shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By IS       c',a'nz C'Y S: X         Y-O
Regional Vice President
Africa
NATIONAL WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
By                     Auhorz' e  Reprseat
7   Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


