Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB1573 
Project Name 
Brazil: Programmatic Fiscal Reform Loan 
–
Social Security Reform 
Region 
LCR 
Sector 
PREM 
Project ID 
P086525 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Brazil 
Implementing Agencies 
Ministry of Social Security 
Esplanada dos Ministérios Bloco F 
70059-900 Brasília DF 
Ministry of Finance 
Esplanada dos Ministérios Bloco P 
70048-900 Brasília DF 
Brasil 
Date PID Prepared 
February 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 19, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
May 31, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Pension expenditures in Brazil have grown substantially over the past decade—from 4 to 12 
percent of GDP between 1990 and 2004, resulting in a sharp increase in pension deficits—from 1.5 to 5.5 
percent of GDP in the same period.  Expenditures increased in the two mandatory pension systems that 
operate on a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) basis—the system for public sector workers (RPPS) and the system 
for private sector workers (RGPS).   RPPS and RGPS expenditures amount roughly to 5 and 7 percent of 
GDP, respectively. 
This volume of expenditures is disproportionately large for a country like Brazil, with a relatively 
young population and middle level of per capita income.  These large pension expenditures have 
constituted a severe obstacle to growth and a source of income inequalities.  Brazil’s large pension 
expenditures are an obstacle to growth because they have contributed low public and national savings and 
hindered a substantial investment recovery.  They have also been a direct obstacle to the reduction in 
poverty and income inequalities by diminishing the volume of fiscal resources available to other essential 
programs such as education, health, targeted social assistance, and basic public infrastructure.  Finally, 
they have also affected the poor by preventing a reduction in the high payroll taxes and an increase in 
formal employment. 
Since the late 1990s the Government has made several efforts to reform the pension system.  
These efforts have required strong political coordination, designed to muster a two third majority in 
Congress required to pass a major pension reform—unlike other countries, most of the generous pension 
provisions were enshrined in the 1988 Constitution, requiring Constitutional amendments to be changed.  
The first reform step took place in December 1998, through Constitutional amendment No. 20, which 
among other measures removed the generous benefit formula from the Constitutional text.  The second 
step took place in November 1999, through Law 9876 that introduced a new benefit formula for private 
sector workers, reducing the generous benefits and strengthening the link between benefits and 
contributions.  The third step took place in December 2003, through Constitutional amendment No. 41, 
which introduced stricter rules for retirement and reduced the generous benefits of public sector workers.  
A
critical Supreme Court ruling in August 2004 confirmed the legal basis of the December 2003 reform.    
In addition to the December 2003 reform to the mandatory pension system for civil servants, the 
Government is also making efforts to reduce further the deficits of the pension system for private sector 
Page  2
workers through improvements in administration, and to improve the regulatory framework of the 
voluntary private pension system and expand coverage.   
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The main objective of the proposed operation i
s
to support Brazil’s program of pension reforms.  
These reforms are necessary to ensure long-run fiscal and macroeconomic stability and a reduction of 
poverty and income inequalities.  As mentioned before, reform of the pension system is required to arrest 
the further growth of pension expenditures, ensure fiscal and macroeconomic discipline, and the 
availability of scarce resources for other essential fiscal expenditures in education, health, basic public 
infrastructure, and well-targeted social assistance programs.  Therefore, the ultimate objective of the 
proposed loan is to help the Government create the conditions for a sustained resumption of output 
growth, and a sustained reduction in poverty levels and income inequalities.  
The proposed loan would support a set of critical policy actions that the Government has recently 
implemented to improve the fiscal sustainability and social equity of the pension system.  The December 
2003 reform would be the most important policy action supported by the loan.  This reform has included 
the following measures: the imposition of a special 11 percent contribution on benefits; the introduction 
of stricter conditions for retirement; the introduction of harsh penalties for early retirement; the 
introduction of a new pension base defined by real lifetime earnings (instead of the last salary) for new 
entrants and employees who do not meet the new retirement conditions; the change from wage to price 
indexation of benefits for new entrants and current civil servants who do not meet the new retirement 
conditions; and the introduction of a new benefit formula and indexation for survivor benefits.  In 
addition to all these measures, the federal, state and municipal governments may also impose an overall 
benefit ceiling equal to the RGPS ceiling if they create complementary pension funds for civil servants.   
The proposed loan would also support other critical policy actions in the pension area, including 
initial steps to further reform the mandatory pension system for private sector workers, and reforms to the 
voluntary private pension system.  The initial steps to further reform the pension system for private 
workers involve improvements in administration and reforms to the work injury program.  The 
administrative reforms include the creation of a new Secretariat for Social Security Revenues, the 
introduction of a risk-based management system designed to prevent fraud and abuse, and the re-
certification of all private pensioners, designed to remove irregular payments due to inefficiencies and 
fraud.  The reforms to the work injury program involve the introduction of minimum standards of health 
and safety in the workplace and the introduction of risk-based contributions to finance the program.   
Finally, the reforms to the voluntary private pension system supported by the loan include the 
creation of a new autonomous pension supervision agency, a new tax regime that promotes voluntary 
participation, several improvements in the regulatory framework for pension funds, including a critical 
regulation on corporate governance, and the authorization of funds sponsored by professional 
associations.  These policy actions should contribute to a stronger voluntary pension pillar and to an 
expansion of coverage. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement  
All previous country assistance strategies stressed the importance of pension reform for the 
achievement of higher growth, and reduction of poverty and income inequalities, and have proposed 
extensive Bank involvement in this area.  The current country assistance strategy covering the 2004-2007 
period has also assigned a high priority for pension reform and Bank involvement in this critical area.   
The Bank has supported Brazil’s reform efforts through adjustment lending and technical 
assistance.  The first two major reforms were supported by two special social security adjustment loans.  
These loans were accompanied by three technical assistance loans, designed to improve the 
administration of the pension systems of private sector employees, and public employees at the state and 
municipal levels.  The proposed loan would support the most recent reform enacted in December 2003, as 
well as other critical policy measures designed to ensure the success of the reform and improve further the 
pension system.   The loan would be the first programmatic loan in the pension area, because the Board 
Page  3
had not yet approved the programmatic lending instrument when the two special social security 
adjustment loans were prepared in the later 1990s.           
4. Financing 
 
The proposed loan will be a fixed spread loan, denominated in US dollars, amounting to US$603 
million, disbursed in one tranche, with a repayment period of 10 years, including five years of grace.  
Once the Bank formally notifies the Borrower that the loan is available for withdrawal, the Borrower may 
submit a withdrawal application, allowing the Bank to disburse the single tranche of the loan into an account 
of the Central Bank denominated in US dollars.  The Central Bank will immediately credit the disbursed 
amount to the Brazilian 
Treasury’s Single Account, thus becoming available to finance budget expenditures.  
The IMF Safeguards Assessment of the Central Bank of Brazil concluded that the Central Bank 
does not present widespread vulnerabilities that could compromise the safeguarding of Fund resources. In 
particular, its audit is conducted by an internationally recognized audit firm, while its internal audit function 
contributes effectively to the institution’s internal control systems.  Therefore, from a fiduciary point of 
view, the control environment, procedures and regulations governing the Central Bank’s operations are 
adequate.  Given that there is adequate knowledge about the soundness of the country’s public financial 
management system, additional fiduciary arrangements have not been deemed necessary. 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Social Security and the Ministry of Finance will review progress in implementing 
the December 2003 reform and ensuring that the expected RPPS savings materialize at the federal and 
sub-national levels.  The two Ministries will also review progress in reducing RGPS deficits through 
improvements in administration and improvements in the disability scheme.  Finally, the two Ministries 
and the new autonomous supervision agency—the PREVIC—will have the responsibility for ensuring 
that the new complementary funds for civil servants are subject to a sound regulatory framework designed 
to ensure the efficient management of pension assets.  Bank staff will interact and collaborate with the 
two Ministries and PREVIC, to review progress in all these areas and identify technical assistance needs.   
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
The reform to the pension system for public sector workers supported by the proposed operation 
will arrest the growth of pension expenditures and deficits and will reduce significantly the net present 
value of future RPPS deficits, especially at the level of states and municipalities.  Therefore, the reform 
will contribute significantly to long-run fiscal and macroeconomic stability.   
 
The reform to the RPPS will also have a positive impact on the reduction of poverty and income 
inequalities.  First the reform does not affect the redistributive components of the Brazilian pension 
system, which are in the RGPS, not the RPPS.  Second, all the components of the RPPS reform were 
designed so as to protect lower income public sector pensioners.  Third, by arresting the growth of 
pension expenditures and deficits in the RPPS, caused in good part by generous benefits, the reform will 
prevent a compression of expenditures in areas with much greater impact on poverty and inequality 
reduction and growth, such as education, health, basic infrastructure and well-targeted social programs.  
Fourth, the reform will open some moderate room for a relocation of expenditures to these areas, or for an 
increase in the primary surplus and a reduction in public debt.   
 
The reforms to the voluntary pension system will also generate important benefits, as the private 
system is expected to play an increasing role in retirement provision. By strengthening the regulatory and 
supervisory framework for private pension funds these reforms will reduce the risk of further fiscal 
liabilities to the Government while also contributing to an expansion of coverage, improving the welfare 
of a growing number of Brazilian workers. 
 
Page  4
The major risks include the continued high growth of disability expenditures; high Government 
expenditures with the complementary pension funds of civil servants, due to large contributions or 
substantial retention of actuarial risk; and retroactive changes to the December 2003 reform.   These risks 
are either modest or are being mitigated by appropriate policies.  The risk of further increases in disability 
expenditures is significant, but being mitigated by the first reform steps, and a more comprehensive 
reform planned for 2006. The risk of fiscal imbalances due to large expenditures with the complementary 
funds is moderate, because Government contributions will only apply to the portion of wages above the 
ceiling, and because the risk of contingent fiscal liabilities arising from the absorption of actuarial risks is 
being mitigated by the creation of the new autonomous supervision agency, and the Government plans to 
strengthen funding rules of pension funds.   The risk of retroactive changes to the December 2003 reform 
exists because of a proposal in Congress to soften some of its components, especially the transition rules 
for retirement.  The proposed changes would weaken the projected savings of the reform, especially in the 
short- and medium-runs.  However, the risk of a major reversal of the December 2003 reform is 
considered moderate, because the changes that are likely to be passed will not dilute the impact of the 
reform in a substantive way, especially in the longer-term.  
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The December 2003 reform will have a positive social impact, by contributing to poverty 
alleviation and to a reduction in income inequalities, especially the latter.  Such a contribution to positive 
social outcomes can be expected for three main reasons.  First, the reform does not affect the specific 
components of the pension system that provide income support to the poor.  These components include 
the minimum pension, the eligibility rules for participation in the rural pension program that is tailored for 
poor rural workers, and the urban old age retirement program that is tailored for poor urban workers with 
short careers in the formal sector.  These benefits are delivered through the RGPS system that was not the 
object of Constitutional amendment No. 41.   
Second, the reform affects precisely the regime that has produced the most inequitable outcomes 
–
the RPPS – without affecting the poor pensioners in the regime, as all the components of the December 
2003 reform were designed to protect low income public retirees.  For instance, the new 11 percent 
contribution only applies to income above a threshold equal to three times the average wage, and even if 
the threshold declines to twice the average wage (as expected) lower income public pensioners will still 
be exempted.  The reduction in survivor benefits will follow a similar rule.  The reduction in benefits 
resulting from the new pension calculation formula is higher for people with steeper wage growth history, 
who tend to be well educated high earners.  Finally, the new and less generous benefit indexation rule will 
affect relatively more retirees with longer life expectancies, which tend to be higher income retirees.   
Third, the reform will ensure fiscal and macroeconomic outcomes that are essential for the fight 
against poverty and the reduction in inequalities.  For one, the reform will arrest the growth of pension 
deficits and help preserve fiscal balance and low inflation.  This is an essential outcome, as the experience 
in the 1980s and 1990s has shown that inflation is a tax that affects primarily the poor.  Moreover, the 
reform will prevent cuts in essential programs that benefit primarily the poor and reduce social inequities, 
such as education, health, better targeted social assistance, or basic infrastructure (e.g. water and 
sanitation).  In fact, the reform is expected to produce some savings that, albeit moderate, may free 
additional resources for these programs.  The Government may also decide to channel any freed resources 
to increase the primary surplus and reduce further the public debt.  This option may not benefit 
immediately the poor, but will open more room for a much needed expansion of investment and higher 
growth rates.  This will not only allow an expansion of formal employment, but will also open room for a 
real increase in essential fiscal expenditures over time, both of which will benefit the poor.  
Finally, it must be noted that, while these pension savings are being generated by a reduction in 
the level of benefits, it must be stressed that the pre-reform benefit levels in the RPPS were excessively 
high, by international comparison and by comparison with RGPS benefits.  Finally, new civil servants 
Page  5
hired after December 2003 will be more affected by the reform, but will receive benefits that are more 
comparable with those provided by pension systems in the OECD countries.   
The proposed operation does not entail any relevant environmental aspects. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
 
Task Manager: 
Roberto Rocha 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington D.C. 20433 
 Telephone: 
202-4730689 
 
Fax: 
202-5227105 
 
