Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8347-BU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
HARCH 14, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
be               I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -         Burundi Franc (FBu)
us $1.00                      FBu 173
FBu 100                       US $0.578
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                   British/US Equivalents
I meter                  =         3.28 feet
1 cubic meter                      35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare = 100 ares               2.47 acres
1 kilometer                        0.64 miles
1 square kilometer       X         0.386 square mile
1 liter                  =         0.26 U.S. gallon
0.22 imperial gallon
1 metric tonne                     2,204 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASSP                     =          Agricultural Sector Services
rroject
BCC                      -          Burundi Coffee Company
BRB                      -          Banque do la Republique du Burundi
CCCE                                Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique
CIRAD                    a          Centre de cooperation
internationale pour la recherche
agricole et le developpement
(French coordinating authority for
tropical agricultural research)
COOPEC                   -         Cooperative d'epargne et de credit
(Savings and Credit Cooperative)
FAC                                 Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
(French Assistance)
ICA                                International Coffee Agreement
ICO                      =         International Coffee Organization
ISABU                    =         Institut des sciences agronomiques
du Burundi
MOAL                     =          Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock
OCIBU                              Office des cultures industrielles
du Burundi
RDC                                Regional Development Company
SODECO                             Societe de deparchage et de
conditionnement
SOGESTAL                           Societe de gestion de stations de
lavage
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT 1/
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary           .      .     ............... i-iii
I.   GENERAL ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL SETTING           .     .     1
A. Background .. ...............................................1 
B. Structural Issues .      . ....................................... 2
C. Agricultural Sector Issues                  ....                3
D. IDA's Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ............... 3
II.  THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR          ......................................... 4
A. Brief History .............................................. 4
B. Structure of the Industry                 .. 5
C. P-oduction ................................................. 5
D. Processing ................................................. 6
E. Marketing, Logistics and the World Market .................. 9
F. The Coffee Payment System ................................. 11
G. Research .................................................. 13
H. Institutional Development ................................. 13
I. Private Sector Participation .............................. 14
III. THE PROJECT .................................................. 15
A. Coffee Policy and Strategy . . .............................. 15
B. Background of the Project . . ............................... 16
C. Project Objectives and Description           ....  16
D. Detailed Features .    .     ..................................     17
1- Institutional Reforms .    . .............................. 17
2- Investments .     . ..................................   27
E. Project Costs                  .        .         ........ 30
F. Financing .     .      ..............................................33
G. Procurement .     .     ........................................... 34
H. Disbursements .    .      ........................................... 36
I. Accounts and Audits .    .    ..................................... 38
J. Environmental Aspects .   .     ................................... 39
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................... 39
A. Organization and Management               .     .     .        39
B. Implementation of Specific Components ..................... 39
C. Work Programs, Monitoring and Mid-Term Review ............. 42
l/This report is based on findings of an IDA mission which visited Burundi
in November 1989, comprising Messrs Charles Bolduc, Jean-Francois Barres,
Walter Schwermer, Allan Yates (IDA), and Jan Van Hilten (Consultant). The
mission was joined by Mr. Y. Grouitch of CCCE.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witheut World Bank authorization.



V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .............................. 42
VI.   JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RI               S^S ..................       ..oo*043
A. Justification ............ .t..o.9.......so........ *ooo.. 43
B. Benefits ..........                                            .............. eo.. 43
C. Economic Analysis^ ... t ........  .***** ****               *... *. *.44
D. Risks ................so......... .o.........o 9   ..... 45
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... *..........    ...... .0....^46
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
Table 1.   Price Contingencies ....... s........... ....... .                  o. * ... . . 31
Table 2.   Summary of Project Costs ............. t  ..... ..  ....... . 32
Table 3.  Financing Plan.......... ....   ... .....  too ........  ... 33
Table 4.   Procurement Arrangements                    ..... ..... ... .......  ... . 36
Table 5.   Disbursement Schedule                 .. ........................ . 37
ANNEXES AND MAPS
L



i
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrowert           Republic of Burundi
Beneficiariess      The coffee industry; Burundi coffee farmers; private
investors; Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB);
participating financial intermediaries (PFI); the
Government (the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock, of Commerce and of Public Works).
kmounts             SDR 21.3 million (US$ 28.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity.
On-lending terms:   Credit funds to finance coffee washing stations to be
built by private investors will be passed on by the
Borrower to BRB at 1/2 of 1% below the rate of
Treasury Certificates for 30 years, including a grace
period of 10 years. BRB will onlend the funds to PFIs
at a rate equal to that of Treasury Certificates.
Interest rates charged by the PFIs to private
investors will be market determined.
Proiect Description:
The fundamental objective of the project will be to
improve the earning ability of Burundi coffee, the
country's principal export crop. To achieve this, the
project will help implement: (a) a package of policy
and institutional reforms to improve the efficiency
and productivity of the industry; and (b) investments
in coffee washing stations, research and trairtng
leading to higher value exports. An important
principle behind the institutional reforms will be the
opening of the industry to private investors and the
ability to attract private capital. The major
institutional measures to be implemented through the
Project will include: (a) the creation of a regulatory
authority (Office du Cafe); (b) the establishment of 5
autonomous entities (SOGESTALs) to take over the
management of the Government owned coffee washing
stations from the Regional Development Companies, and
one autonomous entity (SODECO) to take over operations
of the country's two hulling factories from OCIBU;
these entities, including individual washing stations,
will be open to private ownership; (c) the
establishment of an Assets Management Facility to
concentrate the ownership of the Government-owned
physical assets in the industry; (d) the replacement



ii
of the current administered pricing system by
market-based prices for intermediaries, quality
incentives for producers and, for the Government, the
establishment of a direct export tax to replace the
current levy on the marging and (e) the establishment
of an auction facility for private exporters to
compete with the state-owned BCC. The major
investments to be financed by the project will
include: (a) the construction of up to 100 additional
coffee washing stations by both the public and private
sectors, the mix depending on pz.rvate investors'
response to improved incentives; (b) support to coffee
research with emphasis on solving market related
problems (e.g. off-flavors, technological issues); and
(c) an industry-wide training program.
Benefits and R'isks:
Sector performance will benefit from increaees in
efficiency, competition and transpatence at all levels
resulting from institutional restructuring, market
based prices and greater private investor
participation   Quantifiable benefits will be
generated from: (a) quantifiable improvemente in
processing coefficients resulting from increased
efficiencies; (b) the incremental value of coffee
sales resulting from the shift from washed to fully
washed coffee and from avoiding a likely discount of
the price of semi-washed coffee associated with
inadequate quality control. Other *nefits will
result from the lowering of producticn costs at farm
level resulting from the suppression of hand pulping
(an activity often carried out by women, thus freeing
their time), and the employment generated by the
additional washing stations. The possibility of
resumption of the ICA quotas has not been counted as a
benefit. The economic rate of return (EER) of the
whole project is 22 parcent, with a net present value
of about US$19 million. The risks will include: (a)
delays by Government in ensuring the effective
implementation of the proposed reforms; (b) a lack of
interest from private investors to enter the industry;
(c) slowness on the part of private exporters in
participating in the coffee auctions.



ift
Estimated Proiect Costa
Local     Foreign    Total
---- US$ million -----
Institutional Restructuring          4.6         2.8        7.4
Washing Stations                     14.3        10.7      25.0
Research                              2.0         2.5       4.5
Training                              0.2        0.6        0.8
Total Basel'ne Costs                 21.1        16.6      37.7
Physical Contingencies                1.7         1.4       3.1
Price Contingencies                   3.2         2.3       5.5
Total Project Costs 11               26.0       20.3       46.3
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign    Total
- _____ -US$ million -----
Government                            9.0         0.3      9.3
IDA                                  12.9       15.1      28.0                         r
CCCE                                  2.9         3.2      6.1
FAC                                   0.3         1.2      1.5
CIRAD                                 0.1        0.3       0.4                         p
Belgian Assistance                    0.8        0.2       1.0                         N
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year      1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Annual               2.1    4.6      6.3   6.0    5.1    2.5    1.4
Cumulative           2.1    6.7    13.0  19.0   24.1   26.6   28.0
Economic Rate of Return:   22Z
Maps: IBRD 22033, 22247
ll/Includes direct taxes of about US$ 5.2 million.



1
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT 1/
Staff Appraisal Report.
I.   General Economic and Agricultural Setting.
A.   Background.
1.01      Burundi is a small, landlocked country in East-Central Africa.
It:z GNP per capita, estimated at about US$240 (1987) ranks among the lowest
on the continent. With a population of about 5 million, Burundi has the
second highest population density in Africa estimated at 170 persons per
square kilometer. Population growth is high at 3% per annum projected over
the 1985-2000 period. Despite high demographic pressure on an already
constrained land area, migration to the urban centers has been limited;
urban population accounts for only 5% of total population.
1.02      Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic activity
accounting for aboue 50% of GDP. In addition, agriculture generates about
88% of the country's export earnings. More than 90% of the population live
in the rural areas and depend directly on igriculture for their livelihood.
The countrv's climate is variable but moderate and the soils, even if among
the poorest in Africa in terms of acidity and nutrient content, permit
year-round cropping and support one of the most intensive and productive
agricultural systems on the African continent. Burundi is one of the few
African countries self-sufficient in food (at least for the most popular
staples). Most if not all the country's food production comes from small
private farm holdings averaging about 0.7 ha. in size.
1.03      High altitude arabica coffee is Burundi's major export crop.
Average annual exportable production over the past three years has hovered
around 33,000 tonnes. Some robusta coffee is also grown at lower
altitudes; production averages around 1,400 tonnes p.a. Total area under
coffee by 1991 should amount to about 115,000 ha representing about 4% of
the total area of the country. Arabica coffee is grown on some 500,000
smallholdings supporting about 50% of the farm population of the country.
Export grade robusta is grown mostly on industrial plantations. A typical
arabica smallholding may contain from 80 to 100 coffee trees (0.05 to 0.07
ha). Yields are not substantial and vary widely from 300 to 1000 kg of
'clean", or export grade, coffee per hectare equivalent, depending on the
potential of the area. Few chemical inputs are used with the notable
exception of insecticides. For small farmers, coffee returns represent
from 40 to 60% of their monetary revenues, most other revenues coming from
the sale of banana 'beer' and from off-farm labour. For the Government,
coffee generates some 75 to 85% of the country's foreign exchange and
1/ In French: Projet Filiere Cafe.



2
represents a widely variable but sometimes significant source of budgetary
revenue ranging from zero (1983) to about 42% of total revenue (1986).
B.    Structural Issues.
1.04      Beset with serious economic and finar ial difficulties In the
early 1980's, the Government undertook in 198v with the assistdnce of the
IMF and IDA, a major adjustment program the objectives of whic'i were to
restore financial equilibria in the short term and to initiate medium- and
long-term structural changes in the economy with more reliance on market
forces and a greater outward orientation. This on-going progtsm, started
under SAC I (Credit 1705-BU) ard strengthened under SAC II (1982) (Credit
1919-BU), addresses a broad range of structural issues through measures
aiming at: (a) improving macro-economic management; (b) stimulating
exports; (c) developing the private sector; (d) reforming public
enterprises; (e) improving public expenditure management; (f) increasing
the efficiency of the financial sector; (g) liberalizing the labor market;
and (h) alleviating poverty. On the whole, the Government's performance at
implementing Its adjustment program has been satisfactory despite
difficulties in such areas as public enterprise management and balancing
public expenditures with revenues. Much of the recent dialogue between
IDA/IMF and the Government has centered on these problems.  Of particular
importance has been the impact of the recent fall in coffee prices which
have accentuated the Governmant's dependence on these volatile revenues as
generated under the present payment system.
1.05      The financial covenants of SAC I and SAC II combined with those
of tne Apex Project (Credit 1889-BU) have resulted in major on-going
reforms in the financial sector, the most important of which include: (a) a
complete liberalization of interest rates, achieved in August 1989; (b) the
establishment of monthly auctions of Treasury auctions, since early 1988;
and (c) a flexible exchange rate policy leading to several devaluations of
the Burundi franc, the latest of which was 15% in November 1989. To
strengthen its adjustment strategy, the Government has recently undertaken
a number of sectoral operations in agriculture 2/ and transport 3/ which
address the specific issues of these sectors. A third operation will be
the Coffer qector Project which combines important policy, institutional
and investment measures in the country's most important agro-industrial
sector. One of the innovations of this operation will be the promotion of
private investor participation and the reduction of Government's direct
involvement in a sector which up to now has been strictly in the public
domain. The measures of this operation will also aim at liberalizing
internal prices and improving the reliability of Government's revenues from
the sector, enhancing the market value of the country's most important
export commodity, and creating employment opportunities as well as
strengthening local management and construction capacity.  Furthermore, the
proposed project will also serve as a useful testing ground in such areas
2/ Agricultural Services Sector Project (ASSP) (Credit 2024-BU)
3/ Transport Sector Project, negotiated in January 1990.



3
as public enterprise reform and privatization which could be replicated in
the form of broad policy measures as part of a prospecLive SAC III
operation.
C.    Agricultural Sector Iss3es.
1.06      The preparation of the ASSP provided the opportunity to focus on
sector-spezific issues the most important of which include: (a) the low
level of market development especially for fooderops; (b) the
ineffectiveness of agricultural services, particular3y extension; (c) the
lack of direct relevance of agricultural research to farmers' needs; (d)
the lack of institutional agricultural credit; (e) the lack of sector-wide
programming; (f) the fragmentatior. of budgetary channels; and (g) the
inefficient utilization and monitoring of financial resources. To address
these issues the Government has defined a strategy which conforms with its
broader adjustment objectives and includes sector specific measures to: (a)
improve productivity levels through increased utilization of inputs,
particularly fertilizers; (b) adopt pricing policies in line with
production and export objectives; (c) strengthen the coffee sector while
promoting the development of alternative agricultural exports; (d) redefine
the role of public institutions and restructure the Regional Development
Companies (RDCs); (e) strengthen its programming, budgeting and monitoring
capability; (f) restructure its research facilities in closer confol-ity
with the needs of the agricultural sector; and (g) address the shortcomings
of the cooperative movement and expand the coverage of the Savings and
Credit Cooperatives (COOPEC). An Important package of such measures has
been included in the recently approved ASSP particularly as regards the
improvement of fooderop productivity, the reform of central and regional
institutions, the strenghtening of financial management, and the promotion
of cooperatives. Measures to address the issues which concern specifically
the coffee sector are the object of this Coffee Sector Project.
D.   IDA's involvement in the Agricultural Sector.
1,07      The Bank Group is one of the major sources of development
assistance to Burundi. To date, IDA has financed nine agricultural
projects, of which six have been completed.
1.08      Implementation of the Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 626-BU)
was hampered by weak project management coupled with complex project
design; its results were disappointing. The First and Second Coffee
Improvement Projects (otherwise known as Ngozi I and II, Cr. 147-BU and Cr.
593-BU, respectively) succeeded in promoting the production of arabica
coffee but otherwise had limited results in the area of food crops. Two
successor projects, the Ngozi III (Cr. 1192-BU) and Kirimiro (Cr. 1165-BU)
were just recently completed. While physical implementation of these
projects was generally satisfactory, the Regional Development Companies
(RDCs), responsible for their execution, were faced with a number of
financial and managerial problems (see para. 2.08) the lessons of which
served as the basis for the teorientation of IDA's strategy in the sector
as reflected in the design of the recently approved Agricultural Services
Sector Project (Cr. 2024-BU). The First Forestry Project (Cr. 918-BU) was



4
completed in 1986; result3 were generally satisfactory.  Implementation of
the Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1620-BU) started in 1988; the project aims
at further developing basic forsstry services, promoting tree planting by
farmers and developing plantations to supply fuelwood, poles and timber.
The Muyinga Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1857-BU), which started
implementation in 1988, aims at strengthening agricultural iervices and
cooneratives in Muyinga Province.
1.09      The coffee operations undertaken under the IDA financed Ngozi (3
phases) and Kirimizo projects pioneered the production of fully washed
arabica coffee in Burundi through the introduction and expanded use of wet
processing technology (washing stations). Other donors, such as the Kuwait
Pund, which co-financed the Ngozi III project, and the French Caisse
Centrale (CCCE 4/) have also contributed to this development. The Caisse
Centrale has also financed washing stations in the Makamba-Mumirwa areas of
the country as well as twio large hulling factories in Bujumbura and Gitega.
Also, the Government, from its own resources, has financed a number of
washing stations its the Kirundo area. The success of this experience is
reflected by the farmars' positive response in delivering their production
to the washing stations, and by the improving performance and image of
Burundi coffee on world markets.
II.   THE COFFEE SECTOR.
Current Situation. Issues ard Developments.
A.   Brief History.
2.01      Arabica coffee was introduced in Burundi at the beginning of the
century. Recognizing its potential as a smallholder crop, colonial
authorities encouraged its development and, at one time in the 1930'8, even
made it compulsory for farmers to plant coffee. In 1945, OCIRU 5/ was
established tc manage the development of production and the processing of
the crop; it was replaced, at independence, by the present OCIBU 6/.
Whereas arabica coffee has always been a amallholder crop, robusta coffee,
which was introduced in 1934 by Belgian interests, has been grown mostly on
irrigated estates totalling about 700 ha. Export marketing was carried out
largely by private exporters until 1978 when it became a Government
monopoly under a nationalized BCC 7/. The stabilization fund was
established in 1S48.
4/ Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique.
5/ Office de3 Cultures Indigenes du Ruanda-Urundi
6/ Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi.
7/ Burundi Coffee Company.



5
B.   Structure of the Industry.
2.02      The arabica coffee industry is structured along the lines of its
product flow and consists of two related but distinct product paths, one
for "semi-washed" and one for "fully washed" coffee 8/. Each path
comprises a number of successive steps. For "semi washed" coffee, these
includes (a) the farmers who grow the coffee, do-pulp the harvested coffee
cherries (by hand or by manual de-pulpers), and sell the resulting
parchment coffee to market traders; (b) the traders who collact, deliver
and resell the parchment coffee to OCIBU hulling factories; (c) the OCIBU
factories which hull the parchment coffee into "clean' exportable coffee
and sell the latter to BCC; and (d) BCC which has a do facto monopoly in
selling the coffee tc international buyers and delivering the product to
the port of Dar es Salaam for ultimate shipment.  The "fully washed" path
is similar in most respects to that for 'semi washed" but differs in that:
(a) farmers deliver and sell the coffee cherries immediately ar r
harvesting to coffee wash!ng stations operated by the RDCs and by OCIBU;
and (b) the washing stations convert the cherries into parchment and
deliver and sell the latter to the OCIBU hulling factories. Thi6 latter
process eliminates the need for the farmer to de-pulp the cherry and dry
the parchment coffee and the intervention of the trader middleman. The two
products generally have different end uses: "semi washed" coffees are
mostly used as "bulk" while "fully washed" are generally used as "blenders"
to enhance the body an-4 flavor of the bulk product. As a result, 'fully
wAshed" arabica :sually sells at a premium over 'semi washed" arabica or
other types of coffees 91.
C.   Production.
2.03      Reflecting the importance it attaches to coffee, the Government
has, over the years, undertaken measures to increase production through the
expansion, intensification and replanting of coffee areas, strengthening
and diversification. of research, improvement of cult.vatica -qthods and,
where possible, increased use of fertilisers and insecticides. As a
result, coffee production has shown a positive trend increasing from an
annual average of about 20,000 tonnes in 1976-80 to abort 31,000 tonnes in
1984-88. During the period 1986 to 1988, the Government subsidized
production and distribution of coffee plants to increase coffee tree
81 "Semi washed" and "fully washed" are trade expressions used almost
exclusively to describe coffees originating from Burundi, Rwanda and Kivu
(Zaire). They are seldom used for other origins. For instance, almost all
Kenya coffees are technically "fully washed", yet the trade refers to them
simply as "washed".
9/ Based on price data for the higher quality classes of Kenya coffees
(Standards 1 to 5, all "fully washed"), during the period 1974-88, the
premium obtained for these coffees (FOB Mombasa) averaged about 19% over
the standard indices (GPW - Guatemalan Priie Wash - or ICO Other Milds
Indicator) on an equivalent basis.  By coivarison, the prices for the
"semi-washed" coffees of Burundi and Rwanda, over the same period and also
FOB Mombasa or Dar-ss-Salaam, hovered by +/- 1% about these indices.



6
population from 102 million in 1986 to about 165 miiI'.on, an effort which
should result by 1992 in a production ranging from 45,000 to 50,000 tonnes.
Since 1988, however, Government has deliberately rest:ained its expansion
policy focusing mostly on intensification and the replacement of older
trees. In a recent letter to IDA, the Minister of Agriculture confirmed
this policy stating that area expansion has been halted in marginal areas
and is just about comp.eted in high and medium potential areas. Future
interventions will focus mostly in improving the productivity of existing
plantations in high potential areas.
2.04      The use of inputs has been limited mostly to insecticides to
combat antestia, a sucking pest. Because these insecticides can only be
effective if sprayed systematically over the whole of the coffee area,
their annual procurement and distribution was arranged by OCIBU and their
application carried out by spraying teams also organized by OCIBU. These
tasks are being taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. The cost of
insecticides is and will continue to be covered by a levy on coffee export
revenues 10/. Few if any fertilizers have been applied in the past but
farmers in the Kirimiro area have recently shown a growing interast in
their use. There are no subsidies on coffee fertilizers.
2.05      In terms of world coffee production and exports, Burundi's
proportion is small representing in 1988 about 0.652 of total world
production and about 0.722 of total exports. In the African context,
Burundi's importance is equally small representing about 3X of production
and exports.
D.   Processing.
2.06      Washine Stations.  In the processing of 'fully-washed' coffee,
de-pulping, washing and drying are carried out at the washing station. In
the production of high quality coffee, processing by washing stations
offers a number of advantages, notably: (a) that of requiring from farmers
that they deliver only freshly harvested coffee cherries which are of
adequate ripeness and generally free of disease; (b) since quality can be
assessed at this stage, a price incentive can be introduced to motivate
farmers towards quality; and (c) strict adherence to the washing and
drying process. These types of quality controls and incentives are not
possible in the case of "semi-washed" coffee. The disadvantage has been a
gradual reduction of the role which the middleman/trader (i.e. the private
sector) played in the handling of "semi-washed" coffee. This, however,
does not mean that private traders have disappeared altogether since most
are market merchants trading in other commodities.  In fac'-- they compete
with washing stations by offering services (such as credit using "semi-
10/ This levy and others (such as those proposed to fund coffee research,
access road maintenance and the costs of the Office du Cafe) are industry
levies which would be collected at time of export to finance sector
specific activities. The amount of the levies would be determined on the
basis of need and would be set by industry representatives on the Board of
the Office du Cafe. These levies should not be confused with the export
tax which would be destined to the Government's budget.
u



7
washed' coffee as collateral) which washing stations have not been in a
position to offer as yet. Ill
2.07      Recognizing the potential for higher returns from the inherently
high quality of the country's coffee, the Government has, over the past 17
years, with the assistance of the Bank and other lenders, invested in the
construction of 88 washing stations.  For the coffee year 1988-89, some
9,900 tonnes of fully washed coffee were produced, representing 32% of
total production, almost tripling the amount of similar coffee produced in
1985-86. The Government's objective is to produce enough fully washed
coffee to meet its foreseeable quotas in the event of the re-establishment
of quotas under the International Coffee Agreement (para 2.19). To this
end, and assuming a reasonable quota increase over the next five years, the
country will need a total of 196 stations, leaving 108 stations to be
constructed of which 8 are scheduled for constzuction in early 1990. The
balance of 100 stations are those which uill be constructed in the course
of the Coffee Sector Project.
2.08      All washing stations currently operating in Burundi are owned by
the Gcverment and operated by the RDCs (Buyenzi and Kirimiro) and OCIBU.
The financial and managerial problems of the RDCs were the object of a
specific study in 1985 and were extensively reviewed in the course of the
preparation of the ASSP. Conceived initially as agro-industrial
activities, the objectives of this basic concept were never fulfilled due
to: (a) an inadequate remuneration for the RDCs' fully washed coffee under
the echelle mobil:. a situation which required the RDCs to depend on
subsidies to cover the losses from these activities; and (b) the scope of
their service-type activities (extension, research and input production)
the cost of which always exceeded the commercial earning power of the RDCs.
The RDCs were viewed by the Governmerit as regional branches of the
Administration: their style of management and the conditions of service of
their staff have always been those of the Government.  Coupled to this was
the general inability of the RDCs to establish adequate accounting and
budgeting practices commensurate with their activities.
2.09      The Government has recognized these issues and agreed, under the
ASSP, to restructure the RDCs by returning the service-type activities to
the Ministry of Agriculture and by spinning off the operations of the
washing stations to autonomous entities created for this purpose. As
regards the washing stations, a study prepared during the preparation of
the Coffee Sector Project recommended that 5 autonomous companies, or
SOGESTALs 12/, be created to manage the stations currently operated by the
RDCs and OCIBU, and those to be built for the Government in the future.
Groups of washing stations, varying in number between 23 and 45 per group,
111 Moreover, with the opening of washing station ownership to the private
sector, these traders are potential investors in washing stations.
12/ SOciete de GEStion de STAtions de Lavage.



8
will be assigned to these SOGESTALs 131. The Government has accepted the
study's recommendations. The establishment of the SOGESTALs will
constitute an important element of the proposed Coffee Sector Project's
institutional restructuring component.
2.10      Hulling Factories.  In addition to its investments in washing
stations, the Government has undertaken, with the assistance of the CCCE,
sizeable investments in the construction of two hulling factories, one in
Bujumbura, the other in Gitega. These large factories hull the "parchment
coffee' delivered to them by washing stations and by private traders, sort
the resulting "clean' coffee into export grades and bag it for shipment.
Under an on-going project, also financed by CCCE, considerable improvements
are being carried out at the Gitega factory to increase the sorting and
wharehousing capacity of this factory. When these improvements are
completed (1990), most of the "fully washed' parchment coffee delivered by
washing stations will be processed at the Gitega factory while the "semi-
washed" parchment will be delivered to the Bujumbura factory. These
arrangements will ensure that Burundi's fully washed coffee is processed
under conditions which protect its inherent quality while providing the
technical facilities to tailor the quality grades more closely to the needs
of the market.
2.11      The factories' combined nominal annual capacity amounts to about
40,000 tons of clean coffee. However, technical staff have indicated that
this capacity could readily be increased to about 50,000 tons through
internal task and scheduling arrangements. This capacity is sufficient to
handle projected crop increases to about 1992-93. Beyond that time,
additional hulling capacity would likely be required if the production
increase estimates are realized. By virtue of operating the only hulling
facilitie3 in the country, these Government-owned factories have a de facto
monopoly in this area. However, the Government has agreed to private
investors building and owning future additional hulling capacity.
Moreover, the possibility that the existing factories could be sold to
private investors is also under active consideration.
2.12      The two factories are currently operated by OCIBU.  In the
course of preparution of the Coffee Sector Project the Government agreed,
as part of the conversion of OCIBU into an Office du Cafe (para 2.28), to
transfer the operating management of these factories to an autonomous
company to be named SODECO 14/. As for the earlier mentioned SOGESTALs,
the establishment of SODECO will constitute an important element of the
institutional restructuring component of the oroject.
13/ Indicative numbers per SOGESTAL (the numbers would vary depending on
the number of washing stations owned and operated by private
entrepreneurs): SOGESTAL Ngozi: 45 stations; SOGESTAL Kirimiro: 42
stations; SOGESTAL Muyinga: 23 stations; SOGESTAL Kirimiro: 45 stations;
and SOGESTAL Mumirwa: 41 stations.
14/ SOciete de DEparchage et de COnditionnement.



9
E.   Marketing. Logistics and the World Market.
2.13      Marketing.  The solling of Burundi coffee for export is
currently the de facto monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company (BCC). Major
concerns have been expressed in the past about BCC's lack of proficiency at
me:keting the country's coffee. Issues had been raised concerning the
inexperience and lack of market knowledge on the part of BCC staff, the
lack of agressive marketing, inadequate communications, lack of proper
facilities to evaluate coffee, etc. Underlying these issues is the general
laxity of the institution a good part of which results from the absence of
competition for the agency and the lack of motivation of its key personnel.
It is run very much as a branch of Government operating at hours when an
important part of the wor'd arabica market is closed. Staff remuneration
is also based on Government scales, although at a slightly higher rate.
2.14      During the preparation of this proposed project, IDA funded
technical assistance was provided to BCC as a result of which the agency
has, periodically, succeeded in obtaining prices for its coffee which are
more in line with other competing world coffees of similar grades and
quality levels. To illustrate, whereas in the past BCC has only managed to
sell 'fully washed' coffee at relatively low premiums over its "semi-
washed, in 1988-89 this premium averaged close to 30Z over the better
qualities of "semi-washed" coffee. Also with IDA support, satellite-linked
communication equipment was recently installed and office organization was
improved.
2.15      BCC coffee sales are carried out by a sales committee composed
of the Managing Director and the heads of the Logistics and Administration
Departments. The Government has agreed that the all-important sales
function should henceforth be handled by a specialized Marketing Department
which will be created for this purpose. The by-laws of the company will be
ammended to provide the new Department with the necessary autonomy to
formulate marketing strategy, execute sales and promote the product.
Moreover, staff conditions will be improved in order to attract qualified
candidates from the private sector. A Marketing Director will be recruited
following the establishment of these conditions of service.
2.16      With the aim of increasing the efficiency of coffee export
operations and providing competition to BCC, the Government agreed, in the
course of project preparation, to the establishment of an auction system
where coffee will be sold to private exporters in parallel with and as an
alternative to the existing BCC channel. This private auction facility
will be introduced gradually and, for the first two years will be allocated
increasing proportions of the export crop 15/. The advantages of the
proposed approach include: (a) the avoidance of a situation where marketing
operations could be seriously disrupted if the marketing responsibility
were suddenly and totally transfered from the public to the private sector;
(b) the transparence of transactions to set prices on the basis of which
foreign exchange and export tax earnings will be calculated; (c) the
maintenance of BCC as a safeguard against the recurrence of past abuses
15/ For 1991: a minimum of 12,000 tonnes, or 30% if the crop exceeds 40,000
tonnes. For 1991-92: 50X of the crop.



10
while motivating the company to improve its results since these will
compared with those of the parallel facility; (d) greater market
penetration and greater competition for Burundi coffee; (e) the gradual
build-up of competence and experience of exporters (nationals or
foreigners) in doing business in Burundi; (f) the possibility that
operators within the industry (such as SOGESTALs and SODECO) will become
more closely connected to the market by selling directly through the
auction; and (g) the need for private exporters to ship their coffee to
Indian Ocean ports will likely stimulate a greater utilization of private
transport facilities and more alternative (i.e. less expensive) corridors
than is presently the case.
2.17      The above measures, as regards both BCC and the private auction
facility will be implemented by the project as part of the institutional
strengthening compomert.
2.18      Logistics.  In addition to its selling functions, BCC's
responsibilities include the delivery of coffee to Indian Ocean ports.
Many issues remain surrounding the shipment of coffee through Tanzania but
solutions are currently being sought for most of them. Where the Tanzania
Railway (TRC) is concerned, a multi donor (including IDA) project is being
prepared to improve the rail line, to replace or renew the equipment and to
improve the company's management. Complementary to this project, the EEC
is appraising a project to finance a number of locomotives and wagons to be
dedicated to the operations of hlock trains for transit traffic, including
Burundi traffic. Another project to improve porthandling facilities at
Kigoma and Dar es Salaam is under preparation. Finally, an EEC funded
project would rehabilitate some of the roads in north-western Tanzania, a
situation which would significantly facilitate the shipment of Burundi
coffee by road to Dar es Salaam (via Muyinga). This route was recently
tried by BCC and found competitive with the railway (despite the current
poor condition of the road). In fact, because of much shorter transport
time and a greater reliability of timely arrival at Dar, BCC intends to
ship as much as possible of its fully washed coffee over this road over the
coming year. The Mombasa route has yet to be tried but all current
estimations indicate that, because of the number of countries to cross, the
distance and the volume to be carried, costs would be considerably higher
than the Tanzania alternatives. Much of BCC's efforts at resolving its
transport problems are the result of CCCE funded technical assistance.
This assistance will be maintained under the Coffee Sector Project.
2.19      The World Market.  On July 3, 1989, following the breakdown of
discussions on the International Coffee Agreement (ICA), the then
prevailing quotas were suspended resulting in a fall in world prices of
about 30-35% from earlier levels. The major issues surrounding the
suspension were the insistence of consumer countries (and some producing
countries) on: (a) easier access to the types of coffees, especially higher
quality coffees, which consumers want; and (b) ensuring price equity
between the quota and non-quota markets. In September 1989, ICA members
agreed to renew the coffee agreement without the all-important economic
provisions (quotas and price mechanism) which will remain suspended for the
next two years. The resulting outlook is that, unless quotas are re-
established, world coffee prices will remain low at least until current
surplus stocks are liquidated and marginal production is discouraged.



11
2.20      Despite these circumstances, Burundi is in a good position to
benefit from the present world coffee situation. First, it produces the
type of highland arabica coffee for which there is a growing demand.
Second, as reflected by past and proposed investments, the Government's
policy is to increase the proportion of fully washed coffee the country
exports in order to fetch the relatively higher prices offered. Third, as
reflected in this proposed project, there is a clear determination to
increase the competitivity of Burundi coffee by improving the efficiency of
the industry at both production and marketing levels. These arguments are
corroborated by the conclusions of a World Bank Staff Working Paper 16/
which places Burundi among the countries which have the capacity to export
more under a non-quota scenario than under a quota scenario, and thus may
be able to compensate for some of the lost revenue resulting from the
current low prices.
2.21      Burundi's position, in the event of a resumption the ICA quotas,
would also be favorable since, in addition to benefiting from the likely
price increases, and assuming that consuming countries succeed in their
quest for higher quality coffees, there is a fair probability that Burundi
would be included among those countries to wthich a significant quota
increase would be allocated. In the past, Burundi's annual quotas have
generally followed the country's increasing average production trend, and
the country has thus been able to dispose of almost all its exportable
production on the quota market. Whether this situation would prevail under
a new quota agreement, or whether Burundi would be classed as a 'basic
quota" producer, cannot be foreseen at this time.
F.   The Coffee Payment System.
2.22      Currently, the payment which each participant from production to
marketing receives for its contribution, is prescribed by a payment
schedule which is refered to as the "6chelle mobile". This schedule is set
each year reflecting projections on production, export sales and the
estimated budgetary requirements of the intermediaries. The coimmission
which establishes the schedule is chaired by OCIBU which is also
responsible for administering its application. The recommendations of the
commission are subject to Government approval.
2.23      The system operates a 'stabilization fund" to which surplus
coffee revenues 17/ are deposited in years when export proceeds exceed the
remuneration of the industry, as prescribed by the echelle mobile, or
resources are drawn from when sales proceeds cannot meet echelle mobile
payments. In contrast to similar systems in Africa, the Burundi
stabilization fund has, on the whole, worked reasonably well. The major
reason for this is that the Government will only share in coffee receipts
16/ Akiyama, T. and P. N. Varangis (1989), Impact of the International
Coffee Agreement's Export Quota System on the World's Coffee Market, PPR
Working Papers WPS 148
171 Up to a maximum of FBu 1 billion.



12
at the margin, i.e. after all participants have been paid and the
stabilization fund has been replenished up to its statutory 1 billion FBu.
Thus, under the present arrangement, the Government assumes most of the
risks and consequences of world coffee price fluctuations.
2.24      In common with other administered pricii.g systems, the Burundi
system has important disadvantages: (a) the absence of motivation and
incentives to improve efficiency and quality as 'costs" and "prices" are
pre-set and administratively controlled; (b) the variability and
unreliability of Government coffee revenue; and (c) the favored position of
OCIBU, as arbiter and beneficiary of the system, which has resulted, at
times, in comfortable margins for OCIBU and inadequate appropriations to
the other members of the industry. The method of attributing remunerations
on the basis of estimated budgetary requirements encourages intermediaries
to inflate their costs and, in effect, constitutes a disincentive to become
more efficient, all the more so since actual results of one year are not
used to 'adjust" the next year's echelle mobile. Finally, the lack of
transparent accounting at RDC and OCIBU levels have made it extremely
difficult to determine the true costs of processing.
2.25      The Government has recognized the need for a reform of the
payment system and that, for the industry to become more efficient,
intermediaries should be exposed to market signals. To motivate producers
toward quality, quality premiums should be introduced in producer pricing.
In addition, and in order to attenuate the fluctuations of its own coffee
revenues, the Government has indicated its clear preference to replace the
current levy at the margin by an export tax regime. On the other hand, the
Government has emphasized that one aspect of its present payment system,
notably the fixed price to producers, will not to be abandoned in favor of
allowing producer prices to fluctuate in line with those of the market.
The Government's principal concern in this regard is that liberalizing
prices to farmers would have a serious destabilizing effect on the fragile
socio-political fabric of the country.
2.26      The studies from which the reform recommendations would be drawn
will be carried out in 1990 under the project. These tasks include: (a) an
inventory and evaluation of existing assets (currently under way) and
audits of OCIBU and the RDCs; (b) the design and implementation of
financial and cost accounting systems for the SOGESTALs and SODECO; (c) the
review of the questions related to the export tax, the producer price and
the price support mechanism by a joint IMF/IDA technical assistance
mission; and (d) the formulation of the operating modalities of the new
system, taking into account the findings and recommendations of the earlier
mentioned assignments. 18/ The new system will be put in place in time for
the 1991-92 coffee season.
18/ Details of these tasks are given in Section III.



13
G.   Research.
2.27      Coffee research is the responsibility of ISABU's 19/ Industrial
Crops Department. Although small in terms of resources and staff,
Burundi's coffee research has remained relatively active over the years
when compared to that in other countries of the region. To date, funding
has been provided mostly through projects financed by IDA, CCCE, FAC and
Belgian bilateral assistance. Research programs have reflected the
priorities of these projects and did not always give sufficient attention
to the needs of the industry as a whole. This is evidenced by the current
focus on agronomic issues at the expense of processing, marketing and
quality control. In the future, stronger emphasis will need to be given
tot (a) the need to resolve the nagging "potato flavour" problem; (b)
research in processing technology; (c) the strengthening of the
extension/research linkage on coffee matters; (d) the need to evaluate the
economic implications of coffee research findings; (e) better program
coordination and planning; and (f) the funding of coffee research.
H.   Institutional Development.
2.28      OCIBU/Office du Cafe.  Ever since its inception OCIBU has played
a paramount role in the development of the country's coffee industry. Over
time, however, the agency has cumulated a wide range of functions and
activities. Some of these responsibilities, such as managing the echelle
mobile, are of a regulatory nature, while others, such as operating washing
stations and the hulling factories, give the agency a role at the
operational level which has often resulted in conflict of interest
situations. The cumulation of tasks coupled w&vb inadequate accounting and
management information systems have made OCIBU unAieldly to manage.  In
addition, the expansion of coffee production, the greater mechanisation of
processing and the requirements for more sophisticated marketing have
created the need for more specialization and for a clearer distinction of
the responsibilities of the industry's participants. The Government is
conscious that the Industry should be more autonomous and self regulating
(with private sector participation} and therefore has agreed that OCIBU
will be broken up and that its role will be redefined.
2.29      The major changes will include a spin-off of OCIBU's industrial
and production related activities and responsibilities to entities (some of
which autonomous) either existing or to be establisheis for instance,
funding for parchment collection has been reverted to the banking system;
coffee extension and crop protection will be absorbed by the Ministry of
Agriculture; the hulling operation, which is OCIBU's major industrial
activity will be transfered to SODECO; and its washing station operations
will be transfered to a SOGESTAL. Some of the priority tasks before
achieving OCIBU's break-up include a full inventory and evaluation of its
assets and an audit of its accounts. The charter of OCIBU will be amended
to convert the institution into a regulatory authority (Office du Cafe)
whose major role will be to oversee the industry as a whole. The present
statutes already confer, in a general way, this role to OCIBU. The amended
19/ Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi.



14
statutes will emphasize and clarify the regulatory role of the Office and
will refrain it from intervening in the day-to-day operations of the
industry. The implementation of these changes will constitute one of the
major elements of the institutional restructuring component of the Coffse
Sector Project.
I.   Private Sector Participation.
2.30      Except for those activities connected with production (small
farms), intermediate handling of semi-washed parchment coffee (by market
traders), and some transport, all other arabica coffee related industrial
activities are currently fully owned, controlled and operated by the
Governaent or its agencies. Taken as a whole, the performance of this
public sector industry has been reasonably good over the past decade.
However, the built-in inefficiencies of its institutions, which operate
both as monopolies and as branches of the administration, and the
inadequacy of the payment system indicate that performance can be improved
through a greater degree of competition in the industry. In line with its
adjustment program, the Government recognizes this possibility and has
agreed to restructure the industry and open it to private investment.
However, this agreement to phase out its involvement in favor of the
private sector, has not been made without hesitation. In considering the
private sector participation, the Government's concerns were that:
(a) access by private investors to industry assets and activities
should be gradual and their participation should be beneficial both to the
industry, in terms of improved efficiency, and to themselves, in terms of
return on capital;
(b) the measures to allow private investors access to the industry
should include safeguards to prevent the repetition of past abuses (such as
foreign exchange fraud, embezzlement, under-invoicing);
(c) reforms of the coffee payment system should be designed to enable
both private investors and the Government to draw an equitable return from
their investments in the industry; in addition, the Government should be
able to draw some revenue from coffee exports; and
(d) industry-wide institutional reforms should provide for the
Government to retain a regulatory role over the industry.
2.31      The Government's hesitations mus1: be seen in the Burundi context
where private entrepreneurship, particular.y by Burundi nationals, is a
relatively new development. Traditionally. Barundi have been farmers and
herders, and private entrepreneurs, most o;' whom were traders, were often
foreigners. Educated Barundi have generally opted for Government service.
The situation has evolved somewhat in recent years as a result of the
gradual liberalization of the economy and the increase in the numbers of
educated nationals who have had to make a living in the private sector.
Enterprises, mostly of small or medium size, are being created, a few of
which are In the export sector. However, reforms are still needed to
extirpate the remaining rules and obstacles which limit the cape of private
investment, already constrained by the isolation of the country (and
related transport difficulties) and the small size of the local market.
Progress has been made under the IDA-financed SALs, but more reforms are
needed to complete the liberalization process.



15
2.32      The Government's strategy to open the coffee industry to the
private sector starts with the break-up of the de facto monopoly of BCC on
exports. It remains constrained by the politically justifiable decision to
maintain a floor producer price. The rationale is that quality premiums
obtained by private exporters of fully washed coffee should allow them to
offer more competitive prices to washing stations, which in turn would
compete for higher quality coffee by offering premiums to farmers over the
Government guaranteed floor price. This introduction of economic
incentives will increase the return on investment in coffee stations and
other processing facilities and make them attractive to private investors,
which they are not under the present admuinistered pricing system.
2.33      Private investors will have access to all levels and aspects of
the industry; they are expected to start at the marketing level and move to
processing. They will also be represented on the Board of the Office du
Cafe. While it is difficult at this time to foresee the rate at which they
will invest in the various entities of the industry, their involvement is
bound to be progressive and will depend on their perception of the
viability and risks connected with the investments as well as on clarity of
the role of the Government. The project has, however, been designed to
permit private investment from the start.
III.   THE PROJECT.
A.   Coffee Policy and Strateay.
3.01      Given its importance in the Burundi economy, coffee plays a
leading role in the Government's overall policy as a generator of foreign
exchange, farm income and Government revenue. Since coffee is grown by
close to half of the country's smallholdings, and the income derived from
it represents some 40-60X of the monetary revenues of these small farmers,
the Government is understandably sensitive to matters which may affect this
income, particularly in the context of Burundi's special social fabric.
The objective of the Government's policy as regards coffee is to maximize
earnings from the sector by exploiting the country's comparative advantage
as a relatively low cost producer of high quality coffee. The major
elements of the strategy to achieve this objective comprise: (a) investing
in the technology and the facilities which ensure this quality; (b)
improving the efficiency at processing level through greater
specialization, private investor involvement, competition and market-based
prices; (c) introducing qn%ality incentives at producer level; (d) improving
the efficiency at marketing level by abolishing the BCC monopoly and
introducing competition by means of an auction facility for private
exporters; and (e) rationalizing the regulatory function through the
establishment of the Office du Cafe, whose membership would include
representatives of all participants in the industry as well as Government,
and by so doing reducing the latter'* direct involvement at the operational
level of the industry.
3.02      Rationale. for Bank Group Support.  The scope and content of the
Government's coffee policy and strategy conform with its broader economic
and structural adjustment objectives (para 1.04). They also conform with



16
IDA's strategy to assist the country in its macroeconomic and sectoral
adjustment efforts including that of supporting increases in the share of
fully washed coffee in the country's total coffee output, since such
investments are demonstrably viable and are justified maco-economically.
The Coffee Sector Project will help implement the country's coffee strategy
and, by giving special emphasis to opening an otherwise public sector
monopoly to competition and private investment, will break new grounds in
Burundi. The experience thus gained will serve as basis for the design of
similar interventions encompassing the whole of the economy in future
structural operations.
B.   Background of the Proiect.
3.03      Proiect Origin and Concept.  The project concept originated from
the wish of the Government to accelerate its washing station construction
program and the need for a sector and country-wide project to address the
sector-related conditionalities of the structural adjustment program. As
project preparation advanced, both Government and prospective financiers
became convinced that substantial reforms were needed to enable the
industry to improve its efficiency in the face of increasing production and
a tighter and more competitive market. Also, it became clear that, in
order to achieve this, the Government's role in the industry would have to
be reduced and redefined, private sector participation would have to
increase and competition would have to be introduced.
3.04      Project preparation was carried out by a small team of Burundi
based staff with the assistance of consultants who undertoo,k a number of
studies the most important of which dealt with the issues related to
washing station management and the establishment of a private marketing
facility. Important collaboration was also obtained from the Government's
Committee on the Coffee Industry, from ISABU and from ECC. Funding for
preparation was provided from IDA Credit 1456-BU (Third Technical
Assistance Project) and from the Project Preparation Facility (P600-BU).
The pre-appraisal of the project was carried out in June-July 1989, and
appraisal in November 1989.
C.   Proiect Obiectives and Description.
3.05      Project Objectives.  The fundamental objective of the project
will be to improve the earning ability of Burundi coffee, the country's
principal export crop. To achieve this, the project will implement: (a) a
package of institutional and financial reforms to improve the efficiency of
the industry and to open it up to private investors and attract private
capital; and (b) investments in coffee washing stations, coffee research
and training so as to increase the share of wet processed coffee, leading
to higher value exports.
3-06      Prolect Description.  The project, which will be implemented
over a period of five years, will support institutional and policy reforms
which will result in a more rational and more efficient organization of the
industry. Major actions will include: (a) the creation of a regulatory
authority (Office du Cafe) to replace the present OCIBU; (b) the



establishment of 5 autonomous companies (SOGESTALs) specialized in the
management of coffee washing stations and one autonomous company (SODECO)
to operate the country's two hulling factories; these companies as well as
individual washing stations, will be open to private ownership; (c) the
establishment of an Assets Management Facility to centralize the
administration of Government-owned physical assets in the industry; (d)
the replacement of the echelle mobile by an incentive-based payment system
for producers and intermediaries and, for the Government, the establishment
of a direct export tax to replace the current levy on the margin; and (e)
the establishment of a parallel export marketing facility for private
exporters to compete with the state-owned BCC.  The major investments to be
financed by the Project will includes (a) the phased construction of about
100 additional coffee washing stations, to be built by both the public and
the private sector; (b) support to coffee research with emphasis on solving
market related problems (e.g. off-flavors, technological issues); and (c)
an industry-wide training program.
3.07      Detailed work and studies currently taking place as part of
project preparation will continue throughout calendar 1990 under the
project. The new entities to be established as part of the institutional
restructuring will be scheduled to start operations at the beginning of
1991. The reformed payment/pricing system will be introduced at the same
time.
D.   Detailed Features 201.
1- Institutional Reforms.
3.08      Office du Cafa.      As a regulatory and coordinating authority,
the principal functions of the Office du Cafe will includet
(a) formulating industry policy and strategy on matters of
production, processing, marketing, research and training;
(b) representing Burundi in international discussions and
negotiations relating to coffee;
(c) monitoring national and international production trends;
(d) monitoring international market trends;
(e) managing the auction system;
(f) supervising the activities of the industry;
(g) establishing quality standards and classification systems;
(h) arbitrating in matters of technical conflict within the industry;
(i) monitoring the financial results and performance of the industry;
(j) supervising the operation of the payment system as regards the
application of the producer floor price and the hulling fees of SODECO;
(k) coordinating industry-wide training;
(1) promoting private sector end cooperative participation in the
industry; and
(k) assuming other non-industrial type activities in the coffee
sector attributed by Government, including overseeing the implementation of
projects and initiatives with industry-wide implications.
20/All costs referred to in this section are baceline costs.



18
3.09      The Office du Cafe, which will begin operations in 1991, will be
governed by a Board of Directors composed of representatives from the major
participants in the industry, including producers, traders, SOGESTALs and
private washing station owner-operators, SODECO, private exporters and BCC,
RDCs, the banking sector and Government. In addition to its broad sector
responsibilities, the Board will also oversee the operations of the Offici.
through its review and approval of budgets, financial results and audits
and through the formulation of the internal operating rules of the Office.
3.10      Day-to-day operations of the Office will be managed by a General
Manager who will also sit on the Board. The organization of the Office
will comprise:
(a) an economics department responsible for formulating strategy and
policy proposals, coordinating the collection of statistical information,
supervising the payment system and the financial results of the industry,
and coordinating effo=ts to promote private sector and cooperative
participation;
(b) a technical department responsible for monitoring the industry's
production, processing and research activities, formulating quality
standards and classification norms;
(c) a marketing department responsible for monitoring production and
market trends and for managing the private auction facility; and
(d) a financeladministrative unit for the oper-ting needs of the
office. The unit would also be responsible for colLecting the export tax
on behalf of the Government as well as other industry levies to fund coffee
research, coffee road maintenance, insecticides and Office operations.
(e) the Office's liquoring facility; and
(f) a training unit.
3.11      The project will support the Office through funding for: (a) the                  !
preparation work leading to its establishment; and (b) technical assistance
and the incremental cost of establishment. Regular Office operations will
be financed from a levy on ccffee export revenues replacing the levy
currently financing OCIBU. This levy is estimated to amount to about FBu
1,800 (USS 10.40) per tonne of exported coffee at current levels of
exports. This represents about .05% of export revenues, also at current
levels. The cost of operating the Office is not expected to exceed that of
operating the current non-industrial activities of OCIBU.
3.12      Assurances regarding the Office du Cafe, its responsibilities,
constitution, internal organization and financing have beer. included in a
side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from Government at
negortations. The letter also provides assurances relative to the industry
levies to finance research, insecticides, access road mainterance and the
operation of the Office du Cafa.
3.13      The SOGESTALs.  The SOGESTALs will have the critical
responsibility of ensuring the proper technical management of the washing
stations which they will lease from the Assets Management Facility. In
terms of structure and equipment, washing stations are relatively simple
facilities$ staffing consists of 8 permanent staff on average plus an
additional 50-60 temporary workers at peak processing time. The quality of
the output depends largely on the effectiveness of the technical



19
management. At the station, as coffee goes through the stages of pulping,
fermentation, washing and drying, it is suojected to subtle chemical
transformations which have a significant effect on the liquoring quality of
the end product. The mishandling of any of these stages can have harmful
effects on the inherent quality of the coffee to the point of destroying it
altogether. In Kenya, the reduction of the quality of that country's
smallholder coffee has been attributed, for a significant pert, to the poor
management of cooperative washing stations which service smallholders. On
the other hand, Burundi has, over the years, developed a management system
for its stations which has had impressive results. The system combines
intensive supervision 21/ with a thorough reporting system which allows the
detectio. of deviations from quality standards. The system will be adopted
by the SOGESTALs and will be improved to include information enabling the               F
measurement of the cost effectiveness of the process. Systematic follow-up
of processing and cost coefficients combined with corrective action will
constitute the basic tools by which SOGESTALs would be able to control
their costs as well as the quality of their output to generate better
returns.
3.14      SOGESTALs will own the coff_.e they will buy from coffee farmers,
process it and sell it for their own account.  From the beginning, they
daill be able to either sell the parchment coffee to SODECO (as under the
present system where parchment coffee is sold by RDCs to OCIBU) or, after
having it processed by SODECO for a fee, sell the clean coffee directly
through BCC or the auction. Working capital to finance coffee purchases
will be provided by the banking system.
3.15      The initial capital endowment of the SOGESTALs will come from
existing operating assets to be transferred from RDCs and OCIBU. These
assets include vehicules, tools and some buildings. The project will
provide additional resources for equipment and materials to complete the
establishment needs of the SOGESTALs as well as the start-up working
capital.  This working capital represents the equivalent of about 9 months
of SOGESTAL and washing station salaries and other operating costs to allow
them to operate until coffee revenues start flowing in. The initial
manAgement and operating staff of the SOGESTALs will be drawn from the
staff of RDCs and OCIBU who currently operate the washing stations under
these agencies. Additional personnel will be recruited and trained during
the project to staff the new washing stations. Training costs will be
financed by the project. Support will also be provided in the form of
technical assistance in management and finance.
3.16      Given the nature of the assets which will constitute their
starting capital, the SOGESTALs will initially be owned largely by the
Government. However, their legal status will allow for their progressive
passage from public to privately owned enterprises and the ownership of
their capital shares will be open, from the beginning, to private
investors. Active promotion in this regard will be carried out during the
project as the SOGESTALs develop and -.re in a position to demonstrate their
21/ By a professional Itechnologue' and his assistants who will visit from
4 to 8 stations a day during the 4-5 months whan stations are processing
coffee.



20
viability. The SOGESTALs will be operated as autonomous entities on a
private enterprise basis and the Government will ensure that they are given
all the autonomy needed to operate as efficiently as they would under
conditions of private ownership. Four of the SOGESTALs (Ngozi, Kayanza,
Kirimiro and Mumirwa), whose areas already include adequate numbers of
washing stations to ensure viability, will start operations in 1991. The
fifth SOGESTAL (Muyinga) would start operations in 1992.
3.17      Assurances regarding the SOGESTALs, their constitution, their
operating autonomy, including the ownership of coffee, have been included
in a side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from Government at
negotiations.
3.18      SODECO.  The status of this company will be idantical to that of
the SOGESTAEs in that, while initially owned by the Government, the
ownership capital of the company will be open, from the beginning, to
private investor participation and its legal. status will gradually be
changed from a public to a private enterprise as private ownership
increases. Government will ensure that SODECO is given all the autonomy
reeded to operate as efficiently as it would under conditions of private
ownership. As for the SOGESTALs, SODECO will lease the factories from the
Government' Assets Management Facility. The initial capital assets of
SODECO will come from the existing operating assets to be transferred from
OCIBU. These assets will include vehicles, tools and some buildings.
Funding to finance coffee purchases will be provided by the banking system.
Start-up working capital will be financed by CCCE. The management and
operating staff of SODECO will be drawn from the existing staff of OCIBU
who currently operate the hulling factories.   Other project support will
be provided in the form of technical assistance in management and finance
and to operate the company's sophisticated sorting equipment.
3.19      SODECO, which will start operations in 1991, will either buy
parchment coffee for its own account or will process it for a fee for
SOGESTALs, for private washing station owner-operators or for individual
traders who would eventually elect to sell their coffee directly through
the export marketing facilities.  Coffee which SODECO will buy and process
for its own account, will be sold for export through BCC or the auction,
also for its own account.
3.20      Given that for some time SODECO will operate the only hulling
facilities in the country, and therefore be in a position of monopoly, its
hulling fees will be subject to the review and approval of the Office du
Cafe and the methodology for reviewing and measuring the adequacy of the
fees will be spelled out in the recommendations of the payment system study                   -
(para 3.34).                                                                                   l
3.21      Assurances regarding SODECO, its constitution, operating
autonomy, including the ownership of coffee, and the establishment of its
hulling fees, have been included in a side letter on coffee strategy which
was obtained from Government at negotiations.



21
3.22      Assets Management Facility 22/.  The hulling factories to be
leased to SODECO and most of the washing stations to be leased to the
SOGESTALs or other parties have been financed by the Government from loans
obtained from various donors including IDA, CCCE and Kuwait Fund. In
leasing the assets, the objective of the Government will be to ensure that
leasing revenues will at least cover the amortization of the debt incurred
to finance them, including principal and interest. With a view to grouping
the records of its past and future investments in the industry's pxaysical
assets as well as maintaining proper accounts of its leasing revenues and
debt servicing, the Government will establish an Assets Management Facility
(AMF). The main tasks of the AMF will be tr negotiate the leases and
maintain an assets register and a set of accounts to record revenues and
debt service transfers to Treasury.
3.23      The powers of the AMF will include the capacity to enter, on
behalf of the Goverrment, into leasing agreements with the SOGESTALs,
SODECO and other parties. The modalities, terms and conditions of the
leases will be spelled ouat in the course of 1990 with the assistance of
legal and financial specialists recruited in the course of project
preppnation and in the early stages of project implementation. In addit.on
to the standard features of the leasing agreements, the leasing contracts                  -
will  -clude arrangements for the maintenance and repairs of the assets, a
responsibility to be assumed mostly by the lessees. This will be an
important aspect of the leasing arrangements given that the assets are
scattered around the country and the difficulties for the AMF to act
quickly when urgent repairs or replacements are needed particularly during
the months when the leased facilities would be operating. While the
underlying need for these arrangements will be to ensure the efficient
maintenance and repair of the assets, there is the deliber&te intent on the
part of the Government to ensure that the organization of the AMF will
remain small and not be a financial burden on the country's coffee
industry.
3.24      In addition to its leasing powers, the AMF will have the
authority to sell, on behalf of the Government, the assetb to private
investors. The leasing arrangements with SODECO, SOGESTALs and others will
also include clauses to allow the lessees to eventually gain ownership of
assets which they will lease. The definition of the modalities for these
arrangements will be the task of the financial and legal consultants
referred to earlier. The consultants will also have the task of
recommending the mcst appropriate status for the Facility. Proposals have
already been made in this regard one of which included contracting out the
operation to a private firm and another to entrust it to the Office du
Cafe. The facility will be established in 1990 in time for SODECO and the
SOGESTALs to start their own operations.
3.25      Assurances regarding the establishment of the AMF, its leasing
powers of the AMF, its authority to sell the assets have been included in a
side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from Government at
negotiations.
22/Service du Patrimoine.



22
3.26      The Private Auction Facility.  The Government has agreed to the
establishment of a new auction facility where coffee will be auctioned off
to private exporters. The facility will be open to all exporters, foreign
and national. It will start operations in 1991 and will auction, during
1991 and 1992, a pre-established proportion of the crop which will increase
to 50% by 1992 23/, with the remainder being sold by BCC. Preparation to
set up the auction will be led by the project's marketing advisor assisted
by a local consultant, and a Preparation Committee has been established to
oversee their work.  The Committee is composed of potential private
exporters, representatives of the banking system, industry agencies and
Government. Preparation tasks will include: (a) formulating
recommendations for establishing the auction; (b) drawing up its operating
rules; (c) identifying constraints in export regulations, procedures and
practices, and recommending remedial measures; and (d) organizing a
promotion campaign to attract Participants.  The terms of reference for the
preparation committee and the consultants have been approved by both the
Government and IDA. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit Is that
the recommendations of the Preparation Committee be submitted to the ioint
review, comments and agreement of the Government, IDA and CCCE.  Assurances
were obtained at negotiations to the effect that, on the basis of this
agreement, the Government will establish the private auction facility by
December 31, 1990.
3.27      The Office du Cafe will be responsible for overseeing and
monitoring the operation of the auction 24/. In 1992, after two years of
operations, the Government, IDA and CCCE will carry out an in-depth review
of the performance of the auction. The performance of BCC, over the same
period, will also be evaluated and compared with that of the auction.
Based on the results of the review, consideration will be given at that
time to either: (a) market the whole crop through the auction system; (b)
continue sharing the crop between the auction and BCC; or (c) abolish the
auction. An agreement between the Government, IDA and CCCE on the
recommendations of the review and the commitment of the Government to
implement them will be obtained by December 31, 1992. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.28      Assurances regarding (i) the establishment of the auction, (ii)
the joint agreements relating to its rules of operations and entry and the
measures to remove operating constraints, and (iii) the review and
agreements relating to its performance, have been included in a side letter
on coffee strategy which was cbtained from Government at negotiations.
3.29      BCC.  A number of measures, already approved by Government,
still have to be implemented to provide BCC with the organization and staff
it needs to perform and compete effectively. These include: (a) the
23/For 1991t 12,000 tonnes, or 30% if the crop exceeds 40,000 tonnes. For
1992: 50% of the crop.
241In a manner similar to that of the Coffee Board of Kenya with regard to
its fully-owned subsidiary, Kenya Coffee Auctions Ltd.
r7i



23
establishment of a Marketing Department; (b) the establishment of
competitive conditions of service for its staff; and (c) the recruitment of
a Marketing Manager. The Government has also agreed that measures relative
to staff conditions of service will be implemented before undertaking the
recruitment of a Marketing Manager in order to attract the best candidates
possible for this post. Recruitment will be on the basis of open
competition. The implementation of staff conditions of service and the
appointment of the Marketing Manager on the basis of competition are
conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
3.30      With the establishment of the private auction facility, BCC will
no longer have the monopoly of marketing the total coffee crop although it
will retain a specific share of the crop at least over the first two years
of operation of the auction. It was agreed during appraisal that as long
as BCC retains a share of the crop, it will not participate at the auctions
of the privat.e auction facility to avoid the perception, on the part of
private exporters, that BCC onjoys advantages and possibilities
incompatible with open and fair competition.  It was also agreed that, as
and when the auctions become the only marketing channel for Burundi coffee,
BCC will become an exporter like all others participating in the auction.
3.31      Assurances regarding BCC's role in relation to the private                         r
auction facility have been included in a side letter on coffee strategy
which was obtained from Government at negotiations.
3.32      The Payment/Pricing System.  The replacement of the current
pricing system will constitute one of the most important reforms to be
implemented under the project. The new system will: (a) convert the
current fixed producer price into a floor price; this will still guarantee
Goverranent intervention to support the producer price if it falls below the
floor price level, bat will enable producers to be paid higher prices if
quality differences, market conditions and increased competition allow for
it; (b) replace the current Government levy on the margin (para 2.23) by a
progressive coffee export tax which will attenuate inter-annual swings in
fiscal revenue and provide, in conjunction with exchange rate adjustments
more flexibility in internal prices to absorb world market price variations
while maintaining a floor price; and (c) allow greater flexibility to
industry participants to set intermediate prices.
3.33      Before the new pricing system can be implemented, a number of
important questions need to be resolved. First, the level(s) of the export
tax needs to be determined: this has important macro-economic implications
as such taxes have usually been an important part of fiscal revenue. Also,
as the new floor price system will still include a potential Government
obligation on price support, it will have to be determined whether: (a)
part of the new export tax revenue will have to be earmarked as reserve
against such liabilities; (b) both export tax revenue and producer price
support expend'tures will be an integral part of the Goverrment budget; or
(c) the price support reserve will be collected as a separate levy from the
export tax. Finally, to be determined also will be the extent to which the
Government should intervene through exchange rate revaluations to
compensate for extreme market price movements, in light of the impact of
such revaluations have on other sectors of the economy. These questions



24
will be reviewed by a joint Bank/IMF technical assistance mission which
will advise Government at the latest by September 1990. The mission has
already been requested by Government.
3.34      A second study will need to be carried out on: (a) the
modalities which will determine SODECO's purchase and selling prices and/or
hulling fees, given the company's monopoly position; (b) the modalities for
establishing the commission which BCC would charge for its services; (c)
the mechanism for paying quality premiums to producers 25/; and (d) the
issues related to crop and working capital financing by the banking system
(see next paragraph). The appointment of the consultants to undertake this
study is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the study's recommendations will be submitted
to a joint GovertmentlIDA review and implementation by October 30, 1990 and
that the new pricing/payment system would be implemented at the latest by
February 28 1991 in time for the 1991 coffee season.
3.35      Under the current pricing/paymvent system, OCIBU, in view of its
central position in the industry as the only purclaser of parchment coffee,
is responsible for negotiating arrangements with the commercial banks to
iinance the industry's coffee purchasing operations. In turn, commercial
banks are re-financed by the Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB), the
country's central bank, at a fixed 5% rate, to which financial institutions
may add a maximum 1Z margin. This margin has been found adequate by the
banks in light of the low risk associated with OCIBU's monopoly position.
This arrangement will end, however, with the dismantling of OCIBU and of
the administered pricing system, the result of which will be that
SOGESTALs, SODECO and other intermediaries will henceforth have to deal
directly with the banks. Moreover, the Minister of Finance has recently
indicated that the preferential 5% rate will be abolished starting with the
1990-91 coffee season and that coffee operations will be subjected to BRB's
normal refinancing rate which is presently set at 8.5%. This measure would
be in harmony with the recent dialogue between the Government, the Fund and
IDA on further liberalizing interest rates.  Although the matter has yet to
be decided, it is highly likely that the bank margin will also be subject
to increase reflecting the higher level of risks connected with the new
situation, thus bringing the effective rate for coffee transactions closer
to market conditions.
3.36      One of the keystones of any quality based pricing system is the
methodology for classifying products by quality grades. The classification
system currently in use in Burundi has changed little from colonial times
and aeeds to be adapted to conform with current processing techniques and
marketing requirements. Recommendations have already been made for a new
system but decisions have yet to be made to move ahead with it. A first
step in this direction will to test and fine tune the proposed system
during the 1990 coffee season. The second step will be to draw and
promulgate legislation to establish the new system in time for the 1991
coffee season. The marketing consultant of the Office du Cafe will assist
the industry in implementing this program.
25/ The technical criteria to measure quality would be determined with the
assistance of ISABU (para 3.54).



25
3.37      Assurances regarding the studies, recommendations and agreements
relative to the pricing and classifications systems, as well as
confirmation regarding the interest rate for the financing of coffee
purchases have been included in a side letter on coffee strategy which was
obtained from Government at negotiations.
3.38      Privatization.   In the context of the Government's macro-
economic objectives, the project will provide opportunities to stimulate
private sector development. However, given the history of public sector
control over the coffee industry and the present weakness of the private
sector in Burundi, it is anticipated that the entry of private exporters
and investors in the industry will start slowly and will depend on their
respective perception of0 (a) the ease of access at the various levels of
the industry; (b) their ability to earn a fair return on investments in a
eontext of liberalized prices; (c) their ability to finance their
acquisitions and operations; (d) the degree of operational flexibility
resulting from the removal of administrative constraints and the reduction
of Government intervention; and (e) their expectations regarding the future
of the coffee industry.
3.39      As a result of the reforms to be implemented under the project,
private entrepreneurs will have access to the industry as: (a) buyers and
exporters of coffee through the auction; (b) shareholders in the SOGESTALs
and SODECO; (c) investors in washing stations that they will either
construct themselves or buy or lease from the Assets Management Facility.
Private investors will also be able to own and construct hulling factories.
Initially (end 1990, early 1991), the private auction facility will likely
be the most attractive form of entry to private entrepreneurs in view of
the relatively low cost of establishment and the ability to trade the
coffee on the world market. Of high relevance to retain the interest of
exporters would be the regularity of the auctions and the fact that coffee
is actually sold in the course of these auctions. Entry at the processing
level would occur later (starting possibly by the end of 1991) as
entrepreneurs become convinced that the policy and institutional reforms
are taking hold. Of particular importance to the latter will be the reform
of the pricing system which will aim at giving washing stations, SOGESTALs
and SODECO a greater degree of freedom at controlling and recovering their
costs and seeking the highest market prices possible, within the
constraints of a floor producer price.
3.40      Due to the present lack of organizations to promote private
sector interests in the industry, the responsibility for this task will
initially fall on the Office du Cafe through a special committee created
for this purpose. This Committee will be composed of members of the Office
and representatives of the Chamber of Commexce and other private sector
interests. The role of the Committee will be to identify constraints on
private investments and to devise measures to overcome them. The Committee
will become operational at the latest by June 30, 1991 under terms of
reference and work plan acceptable to IDA. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.



26
3.41      To finance their equity, working capital requirements and
acquisitions of existing installations, private entrepreneurs will draw
from their own resources as well as those of the banking system. A World
Bank mission, which reviewed the banking sector at the time of appraisal,
reported no shortages of liquidity in the system. It is expected that
foreign private exporters and their local representatives will pre-finance
their establishment costs from the resources of their parent organizations.
To finance new constructions at the processing level, private investors
will have access to existing lines of credit in the banking system, the
most important of which, at the moment, is that provided under the IDA-
funded Small Enterprise Apex Project (Credit 1889-BU).
3.42      This Apex project, which became effective in March 1989, is
designed to provide term financing to small to medium scale enterprises
(SMEs), through local commercial banks and other financial institutions.
The project is part of the Government's strategy to develop the sector and
ts oupported by IDA's own country assistance strategy in both the financial
and SHE sectors (para 1.03). The project is managed through the Banque de
la Republique du Burundi (BRB), the local central baik, which lends Credit
funds to participating financial institutions (PFIs) 26/ which, in turn,
on-lend to the SMEs. Technical assistance to appraise SME projects is                       I
provided oy the local Chamber of Commerce (CofC). Proceeds of the Credit
are made available to PFIs at a reference rate equivalent to the average
yield of 3-month Treasury certificates. In view of the liberalized
interest rate policies, including alignment of coffee rates to the general
regime (para 3.35) and the continued flexible exchange rate policy applied
by the Government (para 1.05), the foreign exchange risk can be assumed by
the Government which is adequately compensated under the relending rate of
IDA Credit proceeds to PFIs.
3.43      Implementation of the Apex project has been slow and the
project's USS 7.2 million equivalent available for small-scale investments
have yet to be committed one year after effectiveness. However, the
administrative and interpretational problems which initially hampered
implementation have now been worked out 27/ and a recent supervision
mission (November 1989) expressed confidence that commitments should start
in the near future. The assessment of the mission is that the pent up
demand for the resources of the credit is considerable and that once
lending is started these could be utilized quickly, with a high probability
that most of the line of credit could be committed by end 1991. The
objectives, institutional arrangements, terms and conditions of the Apex
project are, for the most part, ideally suited for the type of financing
needed by private investors for the construction of new coffee washing
26/ Essentially 3 commercial and 2 development banks. See Annex 5 for
conditions of eligibility.
27/ The problems centered on the role which the CofC had assumed for
itself notably by insisting that its approval was needed for BRB to on-lend
to PFIs. This was contrary to the original intent whereby CofC's role was
essentially one of providing technical assistance in the appraisal of
projects submitted to PFIs. This misunderstanding has resulted in an
overly cumbersome approval process, literally paralysing the project.



27
stations. Since these investments are demonstrably viLble both financially
and economically, they would constitute attractive investments for private
entrepreneurs as well as worth while additions to the loan portfolios of
the lending institutions. However, given the time needed to implement the
industry reforms and particularly that of the pricing system to create the
appropriate investment conditions, private entrepreneurs will not likely
venture into washing station investments until the second half of 1991, at
the earliest, by which time most of the resources of the current Apex
credit will have been conitted.
3.44      To ensure that private entrepreneurs have access to financing to
construct their own washing stations, the IDA Credit resources for the
washing station construction program of this Coffee Sector Project will be
made available from the beginning to private entrepreneurs as well as to
the public sector. This approach is consistent with and enhances IDA's
strategy to support Government's efforts to stimulate private sector
involvement in the coffee industry. Private lavestor access to the funds
will be through en-lending arrangements and conditions aimilar to those of
the on-going Apex project although procurement conditions will be those of
this Coffee Sector Project (para 3.69). The modalities of this arrangement
are given at paras 3.47 and 3.67 of this report.  Public sector financing
will be done through stand3rd procedures.
3.45      Assurances with regard to private investor participation at
various levels of the industry and the financing of the construction of
project washing stations by private entrepreneurs have been included in a
side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from Government at
negotiations.
2 - Investments.
3.46      Washing Stations.  Given the economic justification to produce
fully-washed coffee, particularly in the current context of a world market
without ICA quotas, it is urgent for the country to proceed with its
washing station construction program. Some 100 coffee washing stations
will be built under the project and will constitute the project9s major
investment, increasing Burundt.'s production capacity of fully washed coffee
by some 20,500 tonnes to approximately 37,000 tonnes at full development.
At an estimated unit cost of FBu 42.9 million (US$ 248,000), including
civil works, equipment and access roads, the total cost of this program is
estimated at FBu 4,292.6 million (US$ 24.8 million). The stations will be
constructed at sites which will be selected on the basis of coffee
production potential, physical suitability and economic viability. A
condition for funding will be that each station be justified on the basis
of a feasibility study carried out on the basis of procedures and criteria
acceptable to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.



28
3.47      The annual building program 28/ is based on the existing
construction capacity of the country and assumes an increase in pace as
experience would be gained in building the facilities. Given that the
extent of private entrepreneur interest in such investments cannot be
assessed reliably before the reforms are in place, it was not possible at
appraisal to determine the number of program stations that will be taken up
by private entrepreneurs. Thus, no specific allocation has been made
between the private sector and the public sector. However, IDA Credit
financing has been designed to provide sufficient flexibility to ensure
that private entrepreneurs will have access from the beginning to funding
as and when needed. It will also ensure that, whatever happens in this
regard, the balance of the construction program can still be met by the
public sector.
3.48      Washing stations vill be constructed by contractors selected
through local competitive bidding procedures which will not exclude
international bidders (para 3.69). These requirements will apply equally
to public as well as to privatAly constructed stations.
3.49      The design of washing stations to be constructed under the
project will include connections for future retrofitting of recirculation
systems and siting of related equipment. These measures are needed in the
event that discharges from washing stations into adjacent water streams
exceed pre-determined levels of naturally degradable pollution. ISABU will
establish and maintain a monitoring system on pollution of water streams in
the vicinity of all washing stations and, in case of excessive pollution,
will issue recommendations to remedy the situation. Implementation of
ISABU's recomendations will be the responsibility of the owners of washing
stations.  Compliance will be enforced by Government through the Ministry
responsible for environment matters.
3.50      Assurances with regard to the washing station construction
program, private sector involvement and anti-pollution measures have been
included in a side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from
Government at negotiations.
3.51      Access Roads.  Roads leading to washing stations will be
constructed by the contractors responsible for station construction. The
project will provide for an estimated average of 3 kilometers of access
road per washing station at an estimated cost of FBu 500,000 (US$ 2,900)
per kilometer. The conditions attached to the funding of the roads (para
3.63) require that labor intensive technology be utilized for their
construction. Through an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ministry of Public Works, the Direction Generale des Routes (DGR) of
the latter ministry will supervise the contractors' road construction
operations. Maintenance of the roads will be the responsibility of the
washing stations to which they give access; funding for maintenance would
be ensured through a levy on coffee export receipts (paras 2.04, 3.10 and
3.12).
281 14 in 1990; 20 in 1991; 22 each for 1992,1993 and 1994.



29
3.52      Research.  The project will support a comprehensive coffee
research program ir.cludingt (a) soil conservation; (b) washing station
technology; (c) off-flavor research (potato flavor); (d) coffee husbandry;
(e) coffee agronomy; (f) soil and leaf analysis; (g) entomological
research; (h) coffee berry disease (CBD) and rust research; (i) varietal
research; (j) coffee seed production; (k) on-farm trials; and (1) coffee-
related socio-economic studies. Project resources will also be provided to
support the development of a documentation facility, the organization of
conferences and symposia, improved communications and relations with
international research estabaishments, and training. Research related
training will be coordinated by ISABU separately from other project
training.
3.53      It will be important to continue improving the liaison between
research and the coffee industry and strengthening the relationship between
research and agricultural extension. A coffee research coordinator in post
before appraisal has been promoted and a replacement has not. yet been
appointed. Given its importance, the filling of this position will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. Moreover, in view of the need to
strengthen the liaison between research and extension and of improving the
research response to farmers' requirements, this particular activity will
be the object of a specific annex to the annual work programs which will
comment on the results of the past year and propose improvements and new
initiatives for the coming year.
3.54      Another important feature of the project will be the
introduction of a levy on coffee export sales to finance coffee research
operating costs. Up to now, these costs have been covered largely by donor
funding; this situation will continue for the first two years of the
project but will be gradually p'nased out so that, by the end of the
project, all coffee research operating costs will be funded from the
proceeds of this levy. It is expected that, with funding coming from
coffee returns, the industry will require that its concerns be given close
attention in future research programs; this will be a healthy development
(para. 3.12).
3.55      Under the project, ISABU will also develop practical measurement
standards to evaluate the quality of coffee delivered by farmers. This
will be a significant achievement as it will enable the establishment of
incentive payments to farmers based on the quality of their coffee.
3.56      Assurances with regard to the measures to strengthen research-
extension linkages and quality measurement standards have been included in
a side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from Gcvernment at
negotiations.
3.57      Training.  Although the restructured industry will be in a
position to offer attractive conditions of service, finding technically
competent staff is likely to be difficult. The industry is already short
of competent staff in such areas as marketing, liquoring and financial
management. While existing washing stations are adequately staffed, more
staff will be needed for the stations to be constructed under the project.



30
To meet these needs and to ensure that staff are given the particular
skills required by the industry, the project will provide resources to
train existing and future staff in: (a) coffee liquoring, for a total of 30
staff in neighboring and overseas countries; (b) coffee marketing, for 6
staff ia overseas institutions and with international coffee
exporters/importers; (c) production, processing and wharehousing
technology, for 27 staff in neighboring and overseas countries; (d)
administration and financial management, for 8 staff in overseas
institutions; and (e) washing station operation and management, for a total
of 650 staff through a locally operated program.
3.58      The Office du Csfe will have the responsibility for the
organization and coordination of the program 291. To assist the Office in
this function, a training consultant with specialization in human resource
management, will be recruited at the beginning of the project. In the
course of periodic missions, this consultant wills (a) design the annual
training activities; (b) organize and coordinate the implementation of the
program; and Ic) assist the industry entities in defining their staff
profiles and needs as well as their training requirements. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the training specialist be appointed by
December 31, 1990.
E.   Pro1ect Costs.
3.59      Project costs have been estimated at Fnu 8,010 million or US$
46.3 million of which FBu 3,507 million or US$ 20.3 million represent
foreign exchange costs. Base cost estimates reflect prices at end December
1989. Taxes have been estimated at FBu 893.8 million or US$ 5.2 million,
about 112 of total project costs. Equipment imported for the project and
expenditures related to foreign technical assistance would be exempt from
Import duties. The local transaction tax of 15% would apply.
3.60      Physical contingencies amounting to 101 have been applied to
selected categories to reflect uncertainties regarding detailed quantities
and possible design modifications. Price contingencies have been
calculated for local and foreign exchange costs on the basis of projected
inflation rates as shown in Table 1:
29/ Except for research related training which would be coordlnated by
ISABU (para 3.51)



31
Table 1
Price ContinRencies
Project Year          1          2           3          4          5
Calendar Year    1990         1991       1992        1993       1994
-________-_---- percent ------------------
Local               7.0        6.0        5.0         5.0        5.0
Foreign             7.2        4.4        4.4        4.4         4.4
3.61       Project costs are summarized in Table 2.



-32-
Table 2
~1
FeEm SECTOR
PROECT COST SUJY
(FlU '000)                     (USt '000)                   2 total
-     2 Foreisg   Base
Local     Fowign    Total        Local  Poprign  Total   Exchange   Costs
A. INSTITUTIONAL RESTRMURINS
OFFICE WI CAFE                                1524001.5  148P488,5  300M490.0    878.6   85P.3 1736.9            49       5
SOESTALS                                     630*827.0  245193.0  976.010.0  3,646.4  1,417.2 5063.6            28      13
SODECO                                         12,456.0   524324.0   64,790.0      n.o   302.a   374.5          81        1
PCC                                             9704.0   41*316.0   51420.0        56.1   238.8   294.9         81        1
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTtIRIN6           890,93.5  W87e311.5 1292.300.0  64653.1 2,916*.  79469.9         38        ^
3. IISNI1' STATIONS                            2,4684263.4 1U856t 990 4t3259062.4 14,267.4 10,732.9 254000.4       43       66
C. RESEARCH
CWtEE RESEARCH COORDINATION                    199074,2   13M883.8   32995890    110.3    80.3   190.5          42        1
SOIL CONSERVATION RESEARCH                      1*405.0      500.0    190.S0        8.1      2.9    11.0        26        0
VASNINs STATION TECNO4ISY                      42,883.9   76,206.2  119,090.0    247.9   440.5   688.4          64        2
OFF FLAVOUR STUDIES                            37,812.4   82,962.9  120775.3    218.6   479.6   698.1            69       2
HUSBANDRY IWROW. TN BUT., KIR. AND ERAS.       319074.5   18491.5   49,566.0    179,6   106.9   286.5            37       I
AVRONWM  (RECONRCNE ELARSIE)                   71,370.2   84.919.6  156,289.8    412.5   490.9   903.4           54       2
SOIL AND LEAF NALYSIS                          28,392.0   46,668.0   759560.0    167.0   269.8   436.9           62       1
ENTOMOLOGY                                     131048.0   10,636.0   23*684.0      75.4    61.5   136.9          45       0
CID AND RUST RESEARRH                          274616.0   13,184.0   40h800.0    159.6    76.2   235.9          32        1
VARIEr.4L RESEARCH                             23h490.0   10,584.4   34#074.4    135.9    61.2   197.0           31       1
COFfEE SEED PRODUCTION                          4,011.5    2,298.5    6,310.0      23.2    13.3    36.5          36       0
SOCIO-ECNMDIC STUDIES                          11,518.0    7,616.0   19,134.0      66.6    44,0   110.6          40       0
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                       49470.0      900.0    59370.0      25.8      5.2    31.0         17       0
DICUMENTATION FACILITY                          4,688.4    4g731.6    9,20.0       27.1    27.4    54.5         SO        0
ON FARR TRIALS                                 16*929.0    79626.0   24P5550       97.9    44.1   141.9          31       0
RESEARCH TRAINING                                     -   49,080.0   49,080.0         -   283.7   283.7         100       1
LIAISON AND CONSULTANCIES                       5,308.0    2442.0    7*750.0       30.7    14.1    44.8         32        0
Sub-Total RESEARCH                               343,591.1  4329730.4  776,321.5  1,986.1  2M5OW.3 4,487.4         56       12
D. TRAINING                                       294250.0   96,320.0  125,570.0    169.1    W6.8   725.8          77        2
Tothl BSELINE COSTS                              36464093.0 2.873.160.9 6,519,253.9 214075.7 16607.9 37683.5         44      1O0
Phssical Contirngeies                           3009061#3  234,504,1  534,565.4  1.734.5  1,355.5 39090.0         44        8
Price Contin*ncies                              5574590.2  398t964.4  956,574.6  3P223.1  2,306.3 5,529.3         42       15
,..tal PROJECT COSTS                             4.503.744.5 3P5069649.4 8,010,393.9 264033.2 20,269.6 46,302.9      44      123
Martch 5. 1990 16:25



33
F.   Financina
3.62      The financing plan of the project is summarized in Table 3:
Table 3
Financing Pian
Million FBu    Million US$    % of total
IDA                          4,851.4        28.0             62
Government of Burundi        1,614.6         9.3             20
CCCE                         1,047.9         6.1             13
French Assistance              251.4         1.5              3
CIRAD                           73.7         0.4              1
Belgian Assistance             171.4         1.0              1
Total                  8,010.4         46.3             100
3.63      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 21.3 million (US$ 2!.8 million
equivalent), including a PPF of US$ 650,000 will finance about 60% of total
project costs, or 682 of project costs net of taxes and dutles. An
additional US $ 9.0 million equivalent of external financing will be
provided by Belgian Government assistance and by three French agencies,
namely: (i) the CCCE; (ii) the French assistance agency Fonds d'aide et de
cooperation (FAC): and (iii) the Centre de cooperation internationale pour
la recherche agricole et le developpement (CIRAD). The Belgian assistance
grant will finance the construction of access roads to washing stations.
The agreement between the Belgian and Burundi governments relative to this
financing is expected to be finalized by June 1990 and will be a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA Credit. The CCCE loan will finance the
construction of 20 project washing stations and some operating costs. The
agreement between CCCE and the Burundi Government is expected to be
finalized at the latest by December 31, 1990 and assurances to this effect
weru obtained at negotiations. The FAC and CIRAD grants will finance the
investment, technical assistance and some operating costs of three research
sub-components 30/. The agreement between the Burundi Government and these
agencies was concluded on September 27, 1989.
3.64      The Government will finance the equivalent of 20.2Z of total
project costs, or 10.1% of total project costs net of taxes and duties. It
is expected that the Government's contribution will be drawn largely from
existing levies on coffee export revenues.
3.65      Coffee research operating costs have in recent years been
totally funded by external financing notably through the Ngozi III and
Kirimiro projects. For the first two years, this proposed project will
continue this practice. However, starting in year 3, project funding of
3O/Processing Technology research, Off-Flavour research and Agronomy
research.



34
these expenditures will gradually decrease 31/ and be replaced by funding
from a research levy on coffee export revenues. By the end of the project
all research operating costs will be funded from this levy 321.
3.66      The project will be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs which will be subject to the prior review and approval of
Government and the financiers. An agreenent in this regard was obtained at
negotiations.
3.67      IDA funding will be made available from the beginning for
financing washing stations to be constructed by private entrepreneurs
through arrangements, terms anu conditions generally similar to those of
the on-going Small Enterprise Apex Project. The only variations from the
already agreed procedures will include: (a) technical assistance for the
preparation of all washing station sub-projects will be provided by the
Implementation Unit of the Office du Cafe (para 4.12) instead of the
Chamber of Commerce under Apex; (b) the first two sub-projects (instead of
five) from each financial intermediary will be subject to prior IDA review
and approval; (c) the procurement procedures will be those of the Coffee
Sector Project; and (d) disbursements for 80% of local sub-project
expenditures (instead of 70%). The specific arrangements for this
financing will be the object of a Project Agreement between IDA and the BRB
and of a Management Agreement between the BRB and the Government. The
conclusion of the latter agreement will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
G.   Procurement.
3.68      All goods and services financed under the IDA Credit will be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines and as outlined in paras 3.69 to
3.72 below. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. A
World Bank mission visited Burundi in March 1986 to assess the country's
procurement procedures and found that, on the whole, existing rules and
procedures are acceptable by IDA guidelines. A notable exception concerned
the matter of preference given to local firms under local competitive
bidding conditions. This matter has been corrected by means of a side
letter provided by the Government at negotiations providing assurances that
it will nonform with IDA guidelines for goods and services to be financed
by the Credit.
3.69      Prior IDA review of terder documents, bid evaluation, sward and
contract signature will be required for all contracts exceeding US$ 100,000
equivalent. IDA-financed civil works related to washing station
construction, to be built by either the public or the private sector,
amounting to an eetimated cost of US$ 14.5 million, and to the construction
of offices and laboratories, amounting to an estimated cost of US$ 0.35
million, will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) with
31/ Years 1 and 2: 100%; year 3: 802; year 4: 50%; year 5: 201.
32/This is the on-going practice in Kenya where a 1% levy on 'Payments to
Planters' is earmarked for coffee research.



35
foreign firms allowed to participate. This procedltre will be appropriate
as the isolated location of the country and the nature of the works (i.e.
scattered over 14 to 22 sites annually, totalling about US$ 3.0 million per
year) make it unlikely that firms not based in Burundi will be Interested
in bidding. There are several local construction firms in the country
(some of which are local representatives of large internaxional firms) with
adequate expertise to undertake the works program. However, in cases where
the number of bidders will be less than three, the Borrower will be
required to consult with IDA before award. Moreover, since few of these
firms have experience in the construction of washing stations 33/, and in
order to minimize the risks of default, prospective bidders will be invited
to pre-qualify.
3.70      IDA-financed vehicles and equipment will amount to an estimated
cost of US$ 5.6 million; contracts for these will be grouped into packages
of at least US$ 100,000 whenever possible. This will apply particularly in
the case of washing station macninery and equipment, which will be
purchased in annual lots, and vehicles. Contracts whose value exceeds an
estimated US$ 100,000 will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). LCB will be permitted for contracts whose estimated value
will range between US$ 20,000 and US$ 100,000. Contracts whose estimated
value will amount to less than US$ 20,000, for an agregate amount not to
exceed US$ 0.6 million, could be procured through international or local
shopping on the basis of a minimum of 3 quotations. IDA-financed technical
assistance, whose estimated cost will amount to USS 2.2 million, will be
contracted following IDA guidelines. IDA-financed training activities,
totalling an estimated US$ 1.2 million, will be subject to IDA approval.
3.71      Contracts for civil works, goods, equipment and services to be
financed by other financiers will be subject to the latter's procurement
procedures. These will include: (a) washing station civil works, for an
estimated US$ 3.8 million by CCCE; ((b) offices and laboratories, for an
estimated US$ 27,000, by FAC; (c) vehicles and equipment, for an estimated
USS 0.9 million, by FAC and CCCE; (d) technical assistance, for an
estimated USS 2.5 million by FAC, CCCE and CIRAD; and (d) washing station
access road construction, for an estimated USS 1.0 million, by the
Government of Belgium. Washing station civil works financed by CCCE are
expected to be procured under LCB procedures similar to IDA's.
3.72      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.
33/Except for a few stations financed by CCCE, most washing stations in the
country were constructed under force account.



36
Table 4
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
--- Type of Procurement ---
Project Element    ICB         LCB       Other     N.A.        Total
Civil Works
Land Aquisit.                                    0.30       0.30
(-)       (-)
Washing Stat.                22.90                          22.90
(14.5)                         (14.5)
Offices & Labs.               0.35                           0.35
(0.27)                         (0.27)
Vehicles & Equip.   6.9                  1.2                   8.1
(5.6)                C_)                  (5.6)
Tech. Assistance                         4.7                   4.7
(2.2)                (2.2)
Trainir.g                                           1.30       1.30
(1.22)     (1.22)
Increm. Op. Costs                                  8.6         8.6
(4.3)      (4.3)
Total           6.9        23.3      5.9      10.2        46.3
(5.6)     (14.77)   (2.2)      (5.52)    (28.0)
Notet Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA.
H.   Disbursements.
3.73      The proceeds of IDA Credit will be disbursed over 7 years (Annex
2) based on Burundi's disbursement profile. All disbursement requests will
be fully documented with the exception of those supported by statements of
expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for expenditures up to US$ 20,000
equivalent per item or contracce will be against SOEs. Disbursements will
be centralized in OCIBU/Office dts Cafe where documentation pertaining to
SOEs will be retained. SOE related accounts and supporting documents will
be available for inspection in the course of IDA supervision missions. All
project related disbursement applications will be jointly signed by the
Director and the finance director of OCIBU/Office du Cafe.
3.74      In order to facilitate the flow of funds and to ensure that they
are available when needed, a special account will be opened in US$ in a
financial institution acceptable to IDA, for all operations to be
coordinated by the Office du Cafe. IDA will deposit an amount of US$ 1.5
million in the special account; this amount corresponds to an average of
three months of expenditures eligible for IDA financing. Checks written on
this account will be jointly signed by the Director and the finance
director of OCIBU/Office du Cafe. Claims will be grouped for re-
imbursements of not less than US$ 20,000 and IDA will replenish the account
accordingly. Transactions for local currency expenditures will be effected



37
at the prevailing exchange rate of the day. For loans to private
entrepreneurs to be financed by the Credit, disbursement procedures will be
identical to those of the Apex project.
3.75      IDA disbursements by category, amount and percentages will be as
shown in Table 5 below.
Table 5
Schedule of Disbursements
Catetorv                  US $ Million         X of Expenditures
1. Civil Works of            14.1
Washing Stations
(a) Public Sector                         100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
(b) Loans to private                     100%
entrepreneurs
2. Civil Works of             0.2              100% of foreign expenditures
Offices and labo-                          and 801 of local expenditures
ratories
3. Machinery and tools        4.0
for washing stations
(a) Public Sector                         100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
(b) Loans to private                      100%
entrepreneurs
4. Office equipment           0.1              100% of foreign expenditures
and furniture                               and 801 of local expenditures
5. Research inputs            0.1              100% of foreign expenditures
and equipment                               and 80% of local expenditures
6. Vehicules                  1.25             100Z of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
7. Technical                  1.4              1001
Assistance
S. Training                   1.4              100%
9. (a) Research               1.2              1001 (1990-1992)
Operating                               80%  (1993)
Expenditures                            502  (1994)
20% (1995)



38
(b) Operating             0.1              1002 of foreign expenditures
Expenditures of                        and 60Z of local expenditures
the Office du
Cafe
(c) Operating             1.6              1002 of foreign expenditures
Expenditures of                        and 602 of local expenditures
SOGESTALs
10. Refunding of PPF         0.65
11. Unallocated               1.8
Total                  28.0
3.76      Government counterpart funds for civil works, equipment,
vehicles and operating expenditures will be made available to OCIBU/Office
du Cafe on a quarterly basis.  Each 4nstalment, which will correspond to
one fourth of the estimated annual contribution, will be deposited in a
Project account administered by OCIBU/Office du Cafe.  Assurances in this
regard were obtained at negotiations. An initial deposit of FBu 35.0
million will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
I.  Accounts and Audits.
3.77      Independent auditors, to be recruited in the first half of 1990,
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,  will carry out the audit of
OCIBU. Funding for this assignment has been provided in the PPF. A formal
audit of OCIBU's accounts as of December 31, 1989 will be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA Credit. Audit requirements for the RDCs are
governed under the Credit Agreement for the ASSP.
3.78      Separate project accounts will be maintained by each of the
agencies responsible for the execution of the project (OCIBU/Office du
Cafe, ISABU) or to be created in the course of the project (SOGESTALs,
SODECO, Assets Management Facility). The financial and cost accounting
systems of the latter (including the Office du Cafe) will be developed and
established with the assistance of the financial specialist recruited in
the course of project preparation (para 4.03). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the above accounts will be maintained in accordance with
sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices acceptable
to IDA.
3.79      All the above mentioned project accounts and the Special Account
(para 3.74) will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.  The
auditors' terms of reference will include a specific audit of SOEs. Audit
reports will be submitted to IDA within six months after the close of the
financial year and IDA will be allowed to review all project accounts and
records. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.



39
J.   Environmental Aspects.
3.80      Discharge water from coffee washing stations contains pollutants
which, if allowed to flow into streams and rivers in sufficient
concentrations, can cause serious polution downstream from the stations.
Preliminary studies of the potential problem have been carried out and
reviewed by IDA. The conclusions do not recommend that new stations be
equipped at this time with water recirculation systems.  These systems are
generally not needee in view of present throughput and are expensive as
they may represent an additional 10 to 15Z to the investment costs of the
stations. The recommendations, however, propose that the design of the
future stations provide for the installation of such facilities should they
be needed in the future and proposes a stringent monitoring system to be
maintained in order to assess the level of pollution and, if needed,
determine where and when recirculation systems should be installed. These
recommendations will be implemented under the project (para 3.49).
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Orfanization and Management.
4.01      Project implementation will be coordinated by OCIBUIOffice du
Cafe. The Office will have direct responsibility for implementing the
Institutional Restructuring and Training components of the project. Public
sector washing station construction will be implemented by a special
Implementation Unit to be created within the OCIBU/Office du Cafe for the
duration of the project. This unit will also provide technical assistance
to PFIs and to private investors in the preparation of their washing
station construction projects. ISABU will be responsible for implementing
the research component of the project.
B.    Implementation of Specific Components.
Institutional Reforms.
.02      OCIBU/ Office du Cafe.  Calendar 1990 will be a transition
period during which OCIBU will prepare the transfer of its present
industrial activities; the scheduled transfer date will be December 31,
1990. In the meantime it will also prepare to assume the wider ranging
regulatory and supervisory responsibilities of the Office du Cafe, which
will start operating as a separate entity as of January 1, 1991. To
fulfill this double mandate, OCIBU will, for a limited period, cumulate
both its current responsibilities as well as those of the future Office.
This transitional status has been confirmed by a directive from the
Minister of Agriculture. The directive instructs OCIBU to take the
necessary steps to transfer some of its current activities to SODECO, to
the Ministry of Agriculture and to the Mumirwa SOGESTAL. The ownership of
the assets (the hulling factories, the washing stations and the central



40
workshop) and their related financial obligations will be transfered to the
Assets Management Facility.
4.03      The tasks to be accomnlished during the transition period
includet (a) a reorganisation of the accounting systems of OCIBU and of
the RDCs; (b) a full inventory and evaluation of the physical assets of
OCIBU and the RDCs whose operations are to be transfered to SODECO and the
SOGESTALs, while the assets accounts and related documentation are to be
trausfered to the Assets Hanagement Facility; (c) the closing of accounts
and related statements of financial position to effect the transfer of
activities and assets at the date of transfer (at latest, December 31,
1990); and (d) the design and establishment of financial and cost
accounting systems for the new entities (Office du Cafe, SODECO, SOGESTALs
and the Assets Management Facility). A financial specialist has been
recruited to coordinate these tasks. He will be assisted by the financial
staff and advisors of OCIBU and the RDCs; the existing position of
financial advisor at OCIBU, financed by CCCE, will be maintained during
1990 as will those of the RDC financial advisors, financed under the ASSP.
Additional assistance is scheduled to be recruited during the year to
assist in carrying out the inventory and valuation of the assets. Audit
requirements were discussed at para 3.77.
4.04      A legal specialist will be recruited during 1990 to assist in
the preparation of the legal documents and in fulfilling other legal
requirements leading to the establishment of the Office, the SODECO, the
SOGESTALs and the Assets Management Facility. An important function of the
legal specialist will be to formulate opinions and recommendations
regarding the legal status under Burundi law of the entities to be
established. His terms of reference will include the transfer of operating
responsibilities from OCIBU and the RDCs to SODECO and the SOGESTALs as
well as the transfer of assets to the Assets Management Facility. He will
work in close liaison with the earlier mentioned financial specialist in
formulating the leasing arrangements whereby the Assets Management Facility
will lease the hulling factories and other facilities to SODECO and the
washing stations to the SOGESTALs or interested private operators. He will
also elaborate the modalities ana procedures by which the Assets Management
Facility will be empowered to sell the assets under its trust to private
investors. The terms of reference of the legal specialist will be
discussed and finalized during the negotiations of the IDA Credit.
4.05      The decree which governs OCIBU will be rescinded at the time the
latter will transfer its industrial activities to SODECO, SOGESTALs and the
Assets Management Facility. This transfer will be effected at the latest
by December 31, 1990. The decree formally constituting the Office du Cafe
will be promulgated at the same time. The draft of the decree
constituting the new Office will be reviewed by IDA prior to its final
approval by Government.
4.06      SOGESTALs.  The accounting, inventory and legal work leading to
the establishment of SOGESTALs will be included as part of the assignment
of the financial and legal specialists (paras 4.03 and 4.04). The work
will inelude earmarking of RDC and OCIBU operating assets (other than
washing stations and their related equipment) to be transfered to the
SOGESTALs. Also included will be the modalities by which these assets will



41
be transferred to the new entities. The legal specialist will also have
the responsibility for formulating the arrangements and modalities by which
RDC and OCIBU staff will be transferred to the SOGESTALs.
4.07      To conform with Burundi law, the legal status of the SOGESvALs
and SODECO will have to evolve to allow for the expected increase of
private investor participation. In the initial stages, when more than 902
of their share capital will be owned by the Government, the companies will
be registered as 'Soci;t;s de droit public". As the Government's ownership
decreases, between 90Z and 10%, the companies will be registered as
"Societes d'economie mixte de droit priv;". Finally, when Governmient
participation will represent less than 102 of the companies' capital, the
companies will be registered as 'Soci;t;s par action de droit priv;". The
legal specialist of the project will need to review these changes and
formulate his own recommendatiorts as well as proposals regarding the
modalities by which capital shares will be made accessible to private
shareholders. These modalities will include the procedures by which shares
will be valuated (in the abs ance of an open market), bought and sold, and
how their owners will be repiesented on the companies' Boards of Directors.
4.08      The decrees constituting the SOGESTALs will be promulgated in
1990.  As in the case of the Office du Cafe, their drafts will be reviewed
by IDA prior to their final approval by the Government.
Ai.09     A specialist in management and finance will be recruited by the
project to assist the SOGESTALs during the firs. two years of operations.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this specialist be appointed
by uecember 31, 1990.
4.10      SODECO.  Much of the pr paratory financial and legal work to be
done in the case of the Office d' Cafe and the SOGESTALs by the financial
and legal specialists will also -pply to SODECO. The decree constituting
the SODECO will be promulgated in 1990. Its final draft will be reviewed
by IDA prior to Government approval 34/ .
4.11      Technical assistance to SODECO will include a management and
finance specialist and a technical specialist for operating the sorting
equipment. Both are financed by CCCE, are currently in post and will
continue working with SODECO following its establishment.
4.12      Washing Stations.  OCIBU's Implementation Unit will be
responsible for the project's washing station component. The unit will be
headed by the Coffee Technologist and support will be provided by a
consultant civil engineer to supervise the implementation of the
construction program. A basic design, including plans and estimated costs,
of a typical washing station were prepared in the course of project
preparation drawing from years of experience in the construction of such
stations in Burundi. Further refinements were implemented at appraisal
34/ Assurances with regard to IDA's review of the statutes of the Office du
Cafe, SOGESTALs and SODECO and of their promulgation by end 1990 have been
included in a side letter on coffee strategy which was obtained from
Government at negotiations.



42
(See Technical Anwexes for details). Work on station design aiming at
Improving efficiency and reducing the construction costs of new stations
and the operating costs of existing and future stations, will continue
during the project under the direction of ISABU'e Processing Technology
Division which will be created under the project.
C.    Work Programs. Monitoring and Mid-Term Review.
4.13      The economics department of the Office du Cafe (para 3.10) will
be responsible for the preparation of: (a) annual progress reports; (b)
annual work programs; and (c) a project completion report. Progress
reports and work programs will be submitted for the approval of the
Government and the financiers by September 30 of each year. Agreements on
issuance of progress reports and the preparation of the project Completion
Report were obtained at negotiations.
4.14      A joint review of all project activities will be carried out in
1992 by the Government and the project's financiers, giving particular
attention to the implementation of sector reforms. A joint agreement on
the recommendations of the review and a commitment by the Government to
implement them will be obtained by December 31, 1992 (para 3.27).
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS.
5.01      The analysis of the coffee industry was carried out in constant
1989 FBu on the basis oft the Bank's international coffee price projections
which assume that the quotas and price levels of the International Coffee
Agreement will not be resumed in the near future; Burundi's expected
coffee production; coffee prices presently paid to farmers and to traders;
estimated operating costs of the industry's coffee marketing and processing
institutions; and projected annual costs of the Office du Cafe, coffee
research, the maintenance of access roads, and inputs now being provided
free by the Government. Cost of all investment capital has been included
at an annual rate of 10.52, which is in line with the present cost of long-
term funds. Cost of short term borrowings has been estimated at 9.5% per
annum. An exchange rate of FBu 173 per US$ 1.00 has been used in the
calculations.
5.02      The analysis indicates that the industry will incur financial
losses of about FBu 2.6 billion (US$ 15.0 million) and FBu 0.9 billion (US$
5.2 million) in 1990 and 1991, respectively, and then make positive
financial contributions, increasing gradually from about FBu 0.9 billion
(US$ 5.2 million) in 1992 to FBu 7.3 billion (US$ 42.2 million) by year
2000. The projected financial improvement is due to: (i) the expected
increases in world market prices; (ii) the expansion of Burundi's coffee
production; (iiI) the growing share of fully washed coffee; (iv)
improvements in the efficiency of the coffee industry; and (v) the increase
in the quality premium forecast to be earr.ed by Burundi fully washed coffee
as a result of quality improvements expected to be achieved under the
project.



43
5.03      While the analysis shows financial losses accruing to the
industry in 1990 and 1991, coffee revenues exceed the cost of production,
processing and marketing even at present low world market prices. The main
reason for the projected overall lose of the industry stems from the
administered producer price which is considerably above the on-farm cost of
production. Present producer prices yield 231 and 211 financial rates of
return depending on whether farmers market cherry coffee to washing
stationls  or sell semi-washed parchment coffee to traders.  Farmers' cost
of production, is estimated at 70X and 75% of the price now paid for cherry
coffee and semi-washed parchment coffee, respectively. At lower producer
prices, the industry would thus be self financing even at current depressed
world coffee prices.
5.04      Government's policy has been to rule out producer price
reductions and to compensate for world market price declines by drawing
from the stabilization fund and adjusting the exchange rate, thus reducing
producer prices in real terms. This policy is expected to continue to
govern Government's decisious (para 3.33).
VI.   JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Justification.
6.01     Coffee has been and will remain for the next decade the single
most important economic activity in Burundi, and one which in most years
has been consistently profitable to its participants.  The sector reforms
which the project aims to introduce, i.e. private sector participation,
increased competition and increased quality of the prodact, are therefore
expected to have far-reaching implications on the efficiency and profit
potential of the industry, and enable it to even better overcome the swings
in world market prices. As such, it also provides a crucial sector
specific complement to the structural adjustment and macro-economic reforms
the Government has embarked upon with IDA support since 1986.
B.  Benefits.
6.02     The project will generate quantifiable benefits from three
differents sources. The first will be the incremental value of coffee
sales as a result of the shift from washed to fully washed coffee. The
premium for Burundi fully washed coffee over the ICO indicator price for
other mild arabica ex-dock Neow York, has been conservatively estimated to
progress from '1 percent to 15 percent by PY5. This percentage applies to
a base price which is the lowest observed over a 15 years period. The
second source of benefits results from avoiding a likely discount on the
price of semi- washed coffee.  In a 'Without Project' scenario, total
production will be 50,000 tons of clean coffee by 1995 of which perhaps
10,000 might be fully washed from existing washing stations. The 40,000
tons of semi-washed would increase problems associated with inadequate
quality control and export quali-:y would fall as a restlt. This process of
deterioration is well advanced in neighboring countries producing only



44
semi-washed coffee. Larger quantities of mediocre quality result in lower
prices, specially in a free market. As a result it is assumed that in a
"Without Project' situation the value of Burundi washed will gradually
fall below the ICO other mild indicator and by 1995 the value would be at
least 52 below. The justification for considering this scenario is the
fact that additional plantings necessary to produce these quantities, are
already in place. The "Without Project" situation will be worsened if
export quotas were to be re';ntroduced.  In this case Burundi will have to               L
sell substantial quantities of mainly semi-wasned coffee to non-quota
markets and the average differential FOB between Fully Washed (which would
mostly go to quotas markets) and semi-washed will likely be wider. The
third benefit will be obtained from the increased efficiencies resulting
from industry reforms and reflected through quantifiable improvements in
the clean-to-parchment coffee ratio from 78 percent to 82 percent.
6.03     The potential impact of the following has not been quantifified:
(i) reduction of farm labor (mostly from women) resulting from the
suppression of hand pulping; (ii) resumption of ICA quotas which would
result in a widening of the price differential between fully-washed and
semi-washed.
C.   Economic Analysis.
6.04     It has been assumed for the economic analysis that: (a) the life
of project investments would be 25 years with all the main investments
taking place during the implementation period (the first five years); (b)
all expenditures for capital investments, and incremental operating and
maintenance costs relating to the project components have been included.
Costs exclude price contingencies, taxes and duties but physical
contingencies are included; (c) all investment costs are calculated on the
basis of late 1989 constant prices taking into account the exchange
adjustment of November 1989. The calculation of the base price for Burundi
fully-washed arabicas is set out in Annex 3. Based on past sales it has
been estimated that Burundi would earn in 1990 a premium of 11 percent over
the ICO indicator. Due to quality improvements through the project the
premium is anticipated to increase gradually to 15 percent. Projections of
the ICO indicator prices are based on IBRD commodity price forecasts in a
non-quota scenario; (d) the economic and financial benefits from quality
improvement will occur for two classes of fully washed cofffe and two
classes of semi-washed coffee (main grade, under grade). Throughput of the
100 additional washing stations is assumed to reach 105 percent of nominal
capacity, as indicated by experience with the 74 washing stations currently
in operation; and (e) a shadow exchange rate applies on the basis of a 10
percent foreign exchange premium to the value of all tradables.
6.05     The base case for the project has been estimated on the assumption
that the ICA will continue without quotas. Benefits and costs streams used
in the economic analysis are presented in Annex 4. On the basis of the
above assumptions, the economic rate of return (EER) of the whole Project
is 22 percent, with a net present value of about US$19 million.
6.06     Sensitivitv Analysis.  Long term reduction in projected prices of
25 percent arising from permanent disruption of the market structure and/or



45
from the inability of the coffee industry to improve its marketing strategy
would lead to an ERR of 15 Z. Cost escalations of 25 X accross all
investments and incremental operating costs would reduce the ERR to 15
percent.
6.07     Switching values have also been estimated.  In order to reduce the
present value of the Project to zero at a 12 percent discount rate coffee
prices would have to be 32 percent lower than assumed in the base case
analysis. This is unlikely to happen during the life v. the project
because of Burundi's strong comparative avantage in producing high quality
arabica coffee and the increasing market demand for this type of coffee.
Cost overruns would have to reach about 45 percent to reduce the net
present value to zero at the same discount rate. The economic worth of
investment is thus robust to price and costs assumptions. A return to the
ICA quotas would not significantly change the ERR of 22%.
D. Risks.
6.08     One of the main domestic risks of the project will be delays by
Government in ensuring the effective implementation of the proposed
reforms. However, the Government has show6x willingness to work on the
basia of clear objectives and orderly steps to achieve them, and, as
described in the report, a considerable degree of Government agreement to
the major sector reforms was already obtained during project preparation,
so that most of the reformt can be implemented early in the project.
6.09     Another element of internal risk concerns the skepticism on the
part of many in the industry as to when private investors will begin to
show interest. The general view is that the process will be gradual and
will depend to a large extent on Government commitment, the success of the
new payment system and the ability of the new entities and the washing
stations to demonstrate their viability. It is not envisaged that private
investment will start flowing in the industry until about late 1991 after
the reforms have been implemented and have gone through a running-in
period. The review in 1992 will provide a timely opportunity to assess the
situation and amend the process as necessary.
6.10     A last element of risk will be the interest shown by private
exporters in participating in the coffee auctions. Start-up of the private
auction facility is expected to be slow: some exporters could be reticent
to participate initially, preferring to await and see' before committing
themselves. An important factor in its success will be the reputation
which it will acquire over time on the basis of its regularity and
consistency and the willingness of the Burundi authorities to facilitate
the process by removing any remaining export constraints. Once a good
reputation of the Burundi auctions is established there should be no
problem in attracting buyers and increasing the quantities marketed.



46
VII.    ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
7.01     Assurances Obtained at Negotiations:
(a) Final decision on location of washing stations on the basis of
technical, financial and economic criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 3.46).
(b) Procurement of goods and services in accordance with IDA guidelines
(para 3.68).
(c) Agrsement, by means of a side letter, to conform to IDA guidelines
in the matter of local firms under local competitive bidding conditions
(para 3.68).
(d) Government's quarterly instalments of counterpart funds to be
deposited to project account (para 3.76).
(e) the following condition to be implemented by October 31, 1990:
(1)   the joint review by Government and IDA of the consultants'
recommendations on the new pricinglpayment system (para.
3.34).
(f) the following conditions to be implemented by December 31, 1990:
(1)   the establishment of the private auction facility on the
basis the agreement between the Government, IDA and CCCE
(para 3.26).
(2)   appointment of the training specialist (para 3.58).
(3)   agreement between the Government and CCCE relative to the
latter's financing of the project (para 3.63).
(4)   appointment of a management and finance specialist for the
SOGESTALs (para 4.09).
(g) the following condition to be implemented by February 28, 1991:
(1)   the establishment of the new pricingipayment system (para.
3.34)
(h) the following condition to be implemented by June 30, 1991:
(1)   the establishment of the Private Sector Promotion Committee
under terms of reference and work program acceptable to IDA
(para 3.40).
(i) the following condition to be implemented by December 31, 1992:
(1)   agreement on and comritment to implement the recommendations
of the 1992 joint review (paras 3.27 and 4.14).



47
(j) Accounts to be maintained in accordance with sound and generally
accepted accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA (para 3.78).
(k) Audit reports within six months of financial year (para 3.79).
(1) Progress reports and Project Completion Report (para 4.13).
7.02     Conditions of Effectiveness of the Credit.
(a) Review and comments by IDA of the recommendations of the Preparation
Comnittee (para 3.26).
(b) The implementation of the staff conditions of service and the
appointment of the Marketing Manager in BCC on the basis of competitions
(para 3.29).
(c) The appointment of the consultants to undertake the pricinglpayment
system study (para 3.34).
(d) The appointment of the research coordinator (para 3.53).
(e) Agreement between the Governments of Burundi and Belgium relative to
the financing of the washing station access roads (para 3.63).
(f) Concluwion of a Management Agreement between the Government and the
BRB on the arrangements to on-lend IDA proceeds to private entrepreneurs
(para 3.67).
(g) An initial deposit by Government of FBu 35.0 million to the project
account (para 3.76).
(h) Audit of OCIBU's 1989 accounts (para 3.77).
7.03     With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Credit of SDR 21.3 million (US$ 28.0 million
equivalent) to the Government of Burundi on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity.



-48-
Annex 1
BURUFDI
PROJET FILIERE CAPE
STATIONS DE LAVAGE
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTION
Stations de lavage supplementaires                 Total
St. L.                                                              a la
SOGESTAL    exist.    Financement          Financement Projet Cafe               fin du
oxistant                                                  projet
1989  1990       1990  1991  1992  1993  1994   Total
NGOZI        21        2     2          2     5      4     5     3       20        45
KAYANZA       10       2     -          7     6      6     6     5       30        42
MUYINGA       6        3     -          5     4      3     -     2       14         23
KIRIMIRO     29        2      1         -     -      3     5     5       13        45
MUMIRWA       8        5     5          -     5      6     6     6       23         41
TOTAL        74       14     8         14    20    22    22    22       100        196
IDA                                    14    15    16    16   19         80
CCCE                                    0     5      6     6    3        20



- 49 -
BURUNDI                   Annex 2
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
(USS Million)
IDA     Project    Quarter        At the end Disbursement
Fiscal Yr   Year         Endini       of Ouarter        Cumulative
1991        1        Jun.  90           0.0              0.0
Sept. 90          0.7  1/           0.7
Dec.  90          0.2              0.9
2        Mar.  91           0.2              1.1
Jun.  91          1.0              2.1
1992                 Sept. 91           1.0              3.1
Dec.  91          1.1              4.2
3        Mar.  92           1.1              5.3
Jun.  92          1.4              6.7
1993                 Sept. 92           1.4              8.1
Dec.  92          1.5              9.6
4        Mar.  93           1.6             11.2
Jun.  93          1.8             13.0
1994                 Sept. 93           1.8             14.8
Dec.  93          1.4             16.2
5        Mar.  94           1.4             17.6
Jun.  94          1.4             19.0
1995                 Sept. 94           1.4             20.4
Dec.  94          1.3             21.7
6        Mar.  95           1.3             23.0
Jun.  95          1.1             24.1
1996                 Sept. 95           1.1             25.2
Dec.  95          0.4             25.6
7        Mar.  96           0.4             26.0
Jun.  96          (,.6            26.6
1997                 Sept. 96           0.6             27.2
Dec.  96          0.4             27.6
8        Mar.  97           0.4             28.0
IIPPF Refund



- 50 -
Annex 3, Table 1 (1)
COFFEE PROJECT                                                Page I of 3
Projected Financial Contribution from Coffee in Burundi
- Assusing that no International Coffee Agreement Exists -
(in con;tant 1989 F8u'nillionl
1990    II       1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1998     1999     2000    2001ff
KEY PARAMETERS                               ----     ----     ----               --- -    ----     ----      ----     ----    ----      ----    ------
Projected Exports (tons of clean coffee)
(iW   fully washed - main grade        28,800   15,420   18,170   21,100   24,250   27,500   29,120   29,950   30,290   30,290   30,290   30,.90
- under grade        3,200    1,710    2,020    2,340    2,690    3,050    3,240    3,330    3,370    3,370    3,370    3,370
Qii)   washed - nain grade              7,200   26,880   25,930   23,900   20,750   17,510   15,880   15,050   14,710   14,710   14,710   14,710
- under grade               800    2,990    2,880    2,660    2,310    1,940    1,760    1,670    1,630    1,630    1,630    1,630
Total Exports                              40,000   47,000   49,000   30,000   50,000   50,000   50,000   50,000   50,000   50,000   50,000   50,000
Proj. Prices (F8u000/ton f.o.b. Dar) 1/
lil   fully washed - main grade         329.6    371.0    413.1    436.5    479.8    499.4    538.5    538.5    53C.5    558.1    577.7    577.7
- under grade        257.8    290.9    324.6    343.2    377.9    393.5   424.9    424.9    424.9    440.6    456.2    456.2
(ii)   washed - eain grade              294.0    328.1    362.2    379.2    413.3    430.3    464.4    464.4    464.4    481.5    498.5    498.5
- under grade             229.3    256.5    283.8    297.4    324.7    339.3    365.6    365.6    365.6    379.2    192.8    392.8
Average Export Price                        315.5    336.3    374.9   397.3    439.5    462.5    501.5    502.9    503.4    521.8    540.2    540.2
REVENUES                                   12,618   15,805   18,371   19,867   21,976   23,124   25,077   25,144   25,172   26,091   27,010   27,010
EXPENDITURES
8CC Operations 2/
Overhead Expenditures 3/                       45       45       45       45        45       45       45       45        45       45       45       45
Cost of Port Storage in Buiuebura 4/           24       28       30        30       30       30       30       30        30       30       30       30
Transport Cost
- Bujusbura - Kiga lincl. loading)            39       45       47       48        48       48       48       4        48        48       48       48
- Kigosa -forwarding fees  USSI13.6/too)      94      111      115      119      lie 118        118      118      118      11    9 11      9 11     9
- Kigoma - Dar (payable in US$ 51            299      350      365      372       372      372      372      372      372       372      372      372
Oar -forward, fee lpa;able in US$) 6/       125      147      153      156       156      156      156      156       156      156      156      156
Insurance Ipayable in US$) 7/                  30       37       44       47        52       55       59       60       60        62       64       64
Dank Comaission (0.552 of coffee valus)        69       87      101       109      121      127      138       138      138      144      149      149
Interest Expenditures
- during storage at Bujumbura 8/             342      390      406      419       420      422      423      423       424      424      424      424
- during transport to Dar 91                  62       71       74       76        76       76       77       77        77       77       77       77
- during period until paym. r*cipt 10/       100      125      145      157       174      193     I        199       199      207      214      214
Transport Losses (0.52) 11/                    63       79       92       99       110      116      125      126       126      130      135      135
Total 8CC Expenditures                      1,290    1,514    1,618    1,675    1,721    1,748    1,790    1,792    1,793    1,812    1,831    1,831
1/ Based on prices in Table on Coffee Price ProjeKtione, and an exchange rate of Fla   173.0 per USf1.00.
2/ Projections presented here do not yet take into account the effect which the establishmnt of the planned parallel wketing channel will have
on 8CC, and accordingly will have to be amnded in line with exports to be auctioned through the parallel system and BBC's adjustment efforts.
3/ Estimated on the basis of Actual expeneitures in 1969.
41 Calculated on the basis of an average storage charge of FBa5.75 per day and ton, and an average storage peried of 3.5 aonths.
5/ Cost are based on rail and road charges of US$40 and US$70 per ton, rspetively, and asmning that    90.0 2 of transport would be on rail.
6/  Based on fee of US$18.2 or US$16.5 per ton, depending on arrival by rail or road;    90.0 %of transport assumed to be by rail.
71 Cost are calculated at 0.227 and 0.39257 of the value of the differeat coffee qualities, depending on transport by rail or road, respectively.
8/ Estimated on the basis of past experience at 3.5 mnths; interest rates          9.5 1 P.a.
9/ Estimated at 20 days and 10 days for rail and road transport, respectively; internt rate          9.5 1 p.a., I    90.0 % rail transport.
10/ Estieated at one eonth, based on recrnt experience; interest at      9.5 2  pa.
II/ Based on recent experience.



- 51 -
Annex 3, Table 1 (2)
Projected Fjnancial Cintribution froe  Cuff. in krundi                             Palo 2 of 3
- Asiuaing that no International Coff e      tnet Esists -
(in constant 1"9 FEu'.ilIlinl
190      1791      M        1993     1994     1995      199      19       199       1M       2000    2001ff
EXPENDITURES                                 -.--      ----     ----          ---     -     ----      ---      ----     _ _         _                _
SODECO Operations 12/
1. Fixed Expenditures
Permanent Staff                             86       96        86       8t        86       86       86        84       86       96       806        6
Hired Staff                                   I        I        1        1         1        I        I         I        I        I         I        I
Social Benefits                             10        10       10       10        10       10       10        10       10       10        10       10
Total Personnel Cost                         6       9         96       %        96        96       9        96        %        96       96        96
Repair and Raintenance                      20        20       20       20        20       20       20        20       20       20        20       20
Supplies and Naterials                      11        It       11       it        It       11       It        It       It       It        11       11
- tc                                                            I        5         5        5        5         5        3        5
Coffee Prosotion                            20        20       20       20        20       20       20        20       20       20        2t       20
Insurance, Taxes and fees                   22       22        22       22        22       22       22        22       22       22       22        22
Total Fixed Expenditures                   174       174      174      174       174      174      174       174      174      174       174      174
2. Yariable Expenditures
Labor                                       55        65       68       69        69       6        69        69       69       6         69       69
Packaging Naterials                         86       101      106      too       to8      108      106       108      106 1too10o                 108
Repair and faintenance                      46        55       57       58        58       58       59        58       59       58        58       58
Other Variable Expenditures                 96       101      105      107       107      107      107       107      107      107       107      107
Short tern Interest 131
-  (i) fully eashed coffee                143       77        90      105       121      137      145       149      151      151       151      ,51
- (iil seni cashed coffee                  66      249       239      220       191      161      146       139      135      135       135      135
Total Variable Expenditure                 483       646      64       67        654      640      433       630      629      629       628      628
3. Cost of Capital and Depreciation
Cost of Long-tere Capital 141              420       575      575      575      575       575      575       575      575      575      575       575
Depreciation IS/                           247      345       34       345      345       345      345       345      345      345      345       f45
Totai Capital Cost and Depreciation         67      920       920      920      920       920      920       920      920      920      920       920
Total SUDECO Cost                           1,324    1,739    1,758    1,761    1,747    1,734    1,m         1,723    1,M      1,M       1,722    1,722
12; Details are in Table on Projected SDDECD OWrating Cost.
13/ Based on an annu;l interest rate of       9.5 1, and estimted  hort tero funding nes to finance pacmnt purcasxn
and other operating expenditures for      2.0 mnsths if parchmns. is procred fr   SOUSIMA  and for          4.0 mnths
if SODECO procures from traders, to shan  it would normaly advance funds for their prchaing operations.
141 Based on present long tern capital need of FBu4billion which vill in 11 Increase to aboet  F85.47biliion witb the
expansion of the SITEGA hulling plant. The cost of capital has bee  estinted at         10.5 2 pe  anue.
15/ Based on present depreciation charges and the increase   Pected fre  the expansion of the SE611 hulling factory.



- 52 -
Annex 3, Table 1 (3)
Projected Financial Contribution fras Coffn in lurundi                           Page 3 of 3
- Assusing that no International Coffee Agrnleet Euists -
(in constant 1989 F8u'nillion\
EIPEI3DITLIRES                               1S90     1        1992     193       39S4     19S5     1996     19'7     1998     199      2000    2001ff
SOSESTAL Operations
1. SOBESTAL Administration 16/
Petsonnei Cost                             33        35       57       38       38       38        38       38       38       38       38       38
Leuacng of Otfice, Store, etc.               4        4        4        4        4         4        4        4        *        *        4        4
Repair Ad Iaintenance                       it       12       12       13       13       13        13       13       13       13       13        13
Vehicle Operations                         26        27       28       29       29       29        29       29       29       29       29       29
Other Ependitures                           5         5        5        5        5        5         5        5        5        5        5        5
Total SGEBSTAL Adoiuistration              79       93        86       90       90       90       90        90       90       90       90       90
2. Vashing Station Operations 16/
Fixed Cost
- Lease 17/                               300       399      484      569      6t3      161      761       743      761      761      761      761
-Personnel                                120       151     1i7       205      235      264      2U6       264      266      266      266      2t6
- Repair, haintenance and llisc.           9          s 118  139      160      194      209      208       209      208      2        28 209   208
Yariable Cost
- Procurnt of Cherry Coffee 181         3,123    3,920   4,501    5,224    6,001    6,802    7,202    7,406    7,497    7,407    7,497    7,487
-Labor                                    113       138      162      199      237      246      260       268      271      271      271      27i
-Fuel and Lubricants                       13        16       to       21       25       28       30        30       31       31       31       31
-gqs and  rying Naterials                  32       40        47       54       62       71       75       77        78       79       7o       75
- lisellan eas Operating Cost             30        13       15       17       20       22       24        24       25       25       25       25
- Tranport 191                             71       86       102     I1l       136      154       163      I68      170      170      170      170
-Insurance (0.12 of vael                    4        4         5        6        7        a        9         9        9 S               9        9
- Short Twr  Interest 201                  49       60        71       83       95      108       114      117      119     19       119      119
Total Washing Station Operations        3,928    4,845    5,722    6,648    7,644    8,674    9,112    9,335    9,423    9,423    9,423    9,423
3. Cost of Capital and   preciation
nt of Long-twreCapital 211                 78        78       78       78       79       79        79       79       79       79       79       79
Deprciation                                37        37       37       37        2       37        37       37       37        2       37       37
Total Capital Cost I Depreciation         115       1         I5 115 11         9115               3        1        1        90      135      115
Total SOSESTAL Cost                        4,122    5,042    5,923    6,852    7,813    9,878    9,317    9,539    9,620    9,593    9,628    9,628
Procur. of SGeig-ad  Parbmat Co. 221   1,904    7,108    6,056    6,321    5,498    4,629    4,198    3,979    3,989    38589    3,889    3,889
Bross Contribution of Burundi Coffee       3,979       401    2,215    3,259    5,207    6,136    8,041    8,111    9,141    9,076    9,941    9,941
Operating Cot of the Office de Cafe            72       72       72       n        72       72        72       72       72       72       72       72
Cost of Coffee Reuarc                         112      112      312      332 1     12 U     3                          112 312  332  332  112      112
Naintence and epir of Coffee  ads              13       17       20       23       26       29        29       29       29       29       29       29
Coffee Inputs Provided Free by Bovrat.       4S0       490      490      490      490      49        4        49       4        490      490      490
Met Contribution of Eurundi Coffee         3,291      (2901   1,522    2,562    4,507    5,432    7,343    7,408    7,43B   9,373    9,238    9,238
16/ Details are in Tables on SOSESTAL leadqurtr Ct, and lashing Station Operating Cost.
17/ Lea*   cost for an uanhing stations have bn calculated basd an construction cost etimate  lincl  interet during constra. and land cost),
a 30 year atrtzation period, and intenrt &   ainl. cost of          10.5 t pa.  Far nisting stations, a 202 Ioer leas  cost has be   assud.
19/ Basd on cherry coffe  procuren. price of Flu    36.0 per kg and an average outturn ratio as indicated  hov.
19/ Based on transport cost of Flu 19 p   km and ton ad a  average transWort distance linclud. return tripl of         230 kb.
20/ Basd on teao mths borroing needs to finance the prosur;at of cherry coffn frau fareers, and an interest rate of             9.5 2 per annie
21/ Based on long term capital need In the aount of capital ependitures and permannt eorkiag capital rfquiresnts estimated at nine months
operating costs, excl. espenditures for cherry coffe  prorent ad leasing cost. The cost of capital has been estimated at           10.5 I p.c.
22/ Rased on parchunt procuremet price of F8u          181 per kg, paid by SODECO to traders.



- 53 -
Annex 3, Table 2
_m  PRWEC1
Projection of Coffel  lpert Prices 11
(Mitbout in International Coffen  grenont)
(Price  in constant 19I9 UIS p  tan of clean coffee)
Im      1991    IM       199        4     1995      99     IW7      19       9       2000   2001ff
Projeted IC0 Indicator Price
lotherUili arabicas, n-dock IN York) 1,900.0  2,100.0 2,300.0  2,400.0 2,600.0 2,700.0  2,900.0 2,S00.0  2,900.0  3,000.0 3,100.0 3,100.0
Avrage Price Preitue for Baruned Cffn
i   fully washed coffn 2/
- gaia grade                    209.0   252.0   m.o   336.0   390.0   405.0   435.0   435.0   435.0   450.0   465.0   465.0
- uandr grade                  1212.9)  (218.41  (220.9)  1211.2)  1208.0)  (216.0)  (232.0)  (232.01  1232.0)  (240.0)  (248.0)  (248.0)
(ii) ss%i ashed coffee 31
-  in grade                       0.0     0.0      0.E      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
- unde grade                   1390.0)  (420.01  (460.01     t0)  (1520.0)  (540.01  (5100)  (580.0)  1580.0)  (O.   (420.0)  (620.0)
TransWrt, Insufance, Pandling If.o.b.
Dar es Salue to x-dok Ibn Yorki
fi)  Transport of ccAtaineri2d
c-ffne froe Oar to Nou York 41   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0   125.0
(ii) Lading cbarges  m York           47,0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.0    47.6
(iii) Ad valorem chars   incl. Inw-
rence (0.5) and interest 112):
1.51 of value of coffee
- fll'? uashed coffn
- gin grad                       31.6    35.3    39.0    41.0    44.9    46.6    50.0    50.0    50.0    51.8    53.5    53.5
- under grade                    25.3    21.2    31.2    32.9,   35.9    37.3    40.0    40.0    40.0    41.4    42.9    42.8
- sci mabed coffn
- eal trade                      2B.5    31.5    34.5    36.0    39.0    40.5    43.5    43.5    43.5    45.0    46.5    46.5
- under grade                    22.9    25.2      7.6    21.9    31.2    32.4    34.8    34.8    34.0    36.0    37.2    37.2
Projected Coffee Etpot Price -         --------------- ---  ----------- -.
(f.o.b. Oar a  alas  quvalent)
(a)  fully Ra        coffne
- min grade                   1,905.4  2,144.7  2,3U.0  2,523.0  2m.2  2,89.4  3,213.0  3,123.0  3,113.0 3,226.3 3,339.5  3,339.5
- under grade                 1,489.9  1,611.4  1,176.0  1,9.0  2,184.1  2,274.7  2,456.0  2,456.0 2,456.0 2,546.6 2,637.2 2,637.2
fii) cii mh  coffee
- uian grade                  1,699.5  1,96.5  2,09.5  2,192.0  2,99.0  2,487.5  2,4.5  2,684.5  2,684.5  2,793.0 2,81.5  2,1.5
- undr grade                  1,325.2  1,482.9  1,60.4  1,719.2 1,876.8  1,955.6  2,113.2 2,113.2  2,113.2  2,192.0 2,270.8 2,270.8
11 Projectins are bas   n l1D coedity price forcattb.
21 Bad an put sln, it hs   n  sntiuated that endi   d earn in 190 fir its sain grad fully washed coffN a prosius of   11.0 2. We to
quality iwroits the preii is nticipated to iwreae graully to   15.0 t in 1995. Under grades  ll at 807 of the gin grade prices.
3! Baeud n past sales, it has km  etitiod that hiuedi sJ  mce coffe  (gain grade) mod contine to ell at a price sisilar to the IC0
Indititor Price. Under grade mo    ull at a 202 discout.
41 Calculated on thr basis of a 20 foot containr holding 16.8 tans of eln coffee.



- 54 -
Annex 3, Table 3
BURUNDI
COFFEE PROJECT
REVENUES AND COST OF PRODUCTION PER TON OF COFFEE
(F8u)
FULLY MASHED 1/    SENlI WASHED I/
Revenues                                          322,440            207,538
Cost 2/
N Marketing                                       32,541             31,120
- Hulling                                         38,659             42,467
- Mashing                                         65,939                  0
- Herchants  Intermediation                            0             16,456
- Office du Cafe                                    1,800             1,C00
-Coffee Research                                   2,800              2,800
-Repair & haint. of Coffee Roads                     735                  0
-Governeent Coffee Input Srants                    10,875            17,750
Production                                      154,268           165,949
Total Cost                                        307,517            278,342
Net Revenue                                         14,923             9,196
1/ The calculation takes into account that both the production of fully washed and sedi
washed roffee, yields about lOZ unoer grade quality coffee. Revenues and those cost which
vary vith the export value of coffee, have been calculated based on a projected Burundi
coffee export price derived from an assumed ICO Indicator Price of USS      1,900 per ton,
and an estimated price premium for Burundi coffee of       11.0 Z, and of     0.0 Z for
the main grades of fully washed and semi washed coffee, respectively.
2/ Estimated based on an annual production of    32,000 tons and    8,000 tons of fully
washed coffee and of semi sashed coffe, respectively, and coffee exports in the like
amounts. Interest expenditures for sesonal credit have been based on a        9.5 Z p.a.
rate of interest. Capital costs have been estimated at    10.5 2 per annum.



- 55 -
Annex 3 - Table 6
-~~~~~~. . UN__
.UFFEE .OIECT
..._.........
SOMCM APGMAT116 :OST PER TON CF COFFEE
._.......... ...................... . . ... ...... 
tFOul
FULLY WASHED 1/          SERI WASHED 1/
Fixe Cost :1
- 'ersonnel Cost                                2,406.5                    2,406.5
- RPeair and "tantenance                           502.9                     502.9
- Coffee Promotion2l                               489.2                     488.2
- Insurance and Taxes                              550.1                     550.1
- DBpreciation                                   8.626.9                   8,626.9
- Cast of Capital 3/                            14,366.3                  14,366.5
O Other Fixed Cost                                 399.6                     399.6
Total Fixed Cost                                 27,340.5                  27,340.5
Variable Cost
- Labw                                           1,378.2                   1,378.2
- Packaginq gaterials                            2,158.2                   2,158.2
- Repair and Naintensce                          1,159.7                   1,159.7
- Other Variable Expenditures                    2,140.9                   2,140.9
- Short twro Interest 41                         4,481.6                   8,289.5
Total Vauiable Cost                              11,313.6                  15,126.4
Total SOOEOO Cost                                38,659.1                  42,467.0
1/  Fixed cost per to  ha"  be   estimated based a a            40,000 to  annual production.
21 ainly ICO f m.
3!  Estiuted capital low  FlP          5,473 uil. ad capital cot of             10.5 I p.&.
U   8_  mu a  eas     interet rate of:                9.5 I p.a., and shut twro funding
mob to flum           puchmt coffe  wprca     fron SITAs fo                 2.0 maths,
a    fro  priw. trawds fr            4.0 mthb.



- l
........... ........... . _......
terl         Iota
lineal    famamiel  huhaussl    Stereo           Satep                   Cutfud    *Not"  S    &"u
bet Cus t              Img.st   S tin.r. hbculate   ferlep               Futery    Ldwiwratm     SIbt       ft_es t        tst
I. Fsaalq_
Pem id N,01                                    22.121        2,12j      22,19       14,114      15,139       5,515           0      45,511
WMUdiE                                  0          II            0                     12            0          40           0          UP
11il    &Wi                           I*                                 4s         fin         I'm           in 4e                 t 
g.s.a _Ub                             am        I,H9           i         *,w         a,uui       1,2t5         12            f       9,51*
._. _. . ._ ........_ _ .... ....... .. ... __.._ .._ ..... ..             ....... _ ..........
Ida t            bd                  n,ew 23,03             2,421       21,139       1,611      11,i         5,U7            3      U,2t0
.ar no   emeess                       In,    1,166               3       1,20     J ,4           2,111       1,m         3,6S        21,114
Win ad OWide                            6                       *,1U     2,134       1,32          SU          3         4,1M        11,"
bb F   "             1,^           ,"          UW           "            "           *                  *             4  
tI" of I"t 2'e u,w                                 ai                                                                                 419 t   2* *    
m      ., tona   Fees               91                        16  .          S           0           0       am          9,411      22,0"
_ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...____..... _._ . ...__...._.I
btal fieS    _3                                11S,1n        1,1i       39,122      n,5s        n9,t3s       9,1        II,         tills"                                                       VI
2. Viauls    _                                                                                                                                                                                    I
LAW                                                 0            0       9 11,4"    1,911       1,141            0            *      55,12j
ewisis                                  I           I            0      22,jW       "3,19                        0            0 *    *1,
ful mi ti*ats                                        0                   2,41        1,66            I            0      1l,515      22,14
floit ad bu e                           *            0                 2U,5          4,3             I            S      15,111 4*I,I
Ua1c0lIl                                0           0            I      4t,092       5,01          436           0       IS,1        1 2,9O 1
........... _. .. ..........  ............ .. ... _.__............. ............ .................  ....... .... _.  ............  ............ . _
hId  bllIe        _                     *           *           * 0    111,         92,31         ,                     n,ne        213,32
3. Fasm. tet &   SWKsst.
Set-tee latent 3                        0     21S,U1S            0           0           0           S           *           0      2,0
WMt  of Io-tm Cotal4S   41                      4,151            0           *           I           I           *           *      sn,
w    tid,m                            142       $,01            31     13e,411  l 9i,11s         3,44           IN       b,i        345,13
Ida  FAhw. tnlt I         tlme.       142      11,1"4           31     11,t11      19,5          3,14          I3J       b,ls    i,l52,142
.......... .......... ._ .. .. ..... ...........  ............ ........ ....... ...... .......... ...... ...... .........  ... ........ .... .. 
1031 SUtS 14133,221                             2,011        3,111     31,224      313,15       43,3         9,191       14,43    1,,113
(st w  I  slgw tilim  SF51           4.5        21.01         0.0         1.03        1.11        5.0"         0.21        I.41       00.
................................. ................................................. 
IS  Cwts we bms a data pouin             6X,8e, ad in poisctar  o4 13,066.f clew colte. KM'S Mt,es, atttl  ae eel reultes
te ICb  hll,mg, hews 1    l NM      sdmi  K   t4e fO   wt,oes. lIsa, intl Ste reirtn tt,  *tsId c   I   itn  Js  awl esKr  et     Uiem,
it hek es helm   t Jw            e    dee aSte sslatam  owee  rets tmmi s     eal t be  Itot L  Fe tS.  enteld Iru"   gulp 20 d2
its peet opetimues directly related td 4ehl,eg. k9awi,m    the tr_"Wt flee, It hem nbe                 tmid 11 931  m_id Meet
gulf hell .44Ot18U  mlactles. II we o0te,ll   cost estamat, 1mlid amii toe of speel betlKIt  rentrtctm@.)
21  fog 8411 CSpt iktld    Ste IM    t4 0    Itt.
3' Celcmlaticu is 5.5.  sa am umu   aterest  .le of          9.5 5, end litigated abt tare SeIugr meft to huag pentul Pe hs
m tAer eigratie, ft"mdtarn lsr                2.0 Obt0s If pOCemt ce0i. 1as Paeerd he 91511651   lcr                  4.0 amiSs
at UUto psers    r tree Iaders, o dte at mull  armaillp ad,wo  owt, feo lbetr prchemam, arata,.
If lcml.ted go too basas 0u aa eslaultld 3, ltoo  tin  ceaptal POtt  ot fog         5.4'! S., W4 Ila,       30.21 1 P.m. Cost of coltal.
ME a 



- 57 -
BURUNDI                                                    Annex  3, Table  8
COFFEE PROJECT
AVERAGE S06ESTAL OPERATING COST PER TON OF COFFEE
(FBul
PARCHMENT                CLEAN 1/
COFFEE IEIGHT           COFFEE HEIGHT
Overhead Cost 21
- Salaries and Wqes                             298.9                 1,132.7
- Operation and Naintenance of Vehicles      1,024.3                  1,249.2
- Other Expenses                               235.2                    286.8
- Depreciation                                 895.2                  1,091.7
- Cost of Capital 3/                          1,831.0                 2,232.9
Total Overhead Cost                           (,914.5                  5,993.3
Mashing Station Operations 41
- Fixed Cost
Lease Cost 5/                              IB,53.9                22,608.4
Salaries and Iages                         6,488.8                  7,913.1
Repair and Maintenance 6/                  4,358.6                  5,315.4
Miseallaneous                                 716.2                   873.4
Total Fixed Cost                             30,102.5                 36,710.4
- Variable Cost
Labor                                      6,592.6                  8,039.9
Bags and Drying Naterials                   1,900.0                 2,317.1
Transport                                  4,140.0                  5,048.8
Other Variable Expenditures                 1,560.0                 1,902.4
Short term Interest 7/                     2,887.6                  3,521.5
Total Variable Cost                           17,080.2                20,829.6
Total Iashing Station Cost                   47,182.9                 57,540.0
Total S06ESTAL Cost                          52,097.3                 63,533.3
I/  Based on outturn ratio of:       0.82 tons of clean coffn per ton of parchment.
21  Details are in Table on SogNtal Headquarter Operating Cost. Annual parchment
production by Sogestal is estimated at     41,050 tons, i.e.        33,661 tons clean.
3/ Based on capital reqiresents to finance capital expenditures and permanent morking
capital estiaated at nine mnths operating expenses (excluding expenditures
for cherry procurmeent and leasing). Capital cost estimted st         10.5 2 p.a.
4/ Details are in Table on MIshing Station Operating Cost.
51 Lease cost have been based on washing station invntunt cost (incl. land, interest
during construction, and contingencies) estimated at Fbu        38,595,000 , a 30-year
amortization period, and internt & administration charges of          10.5 1 per year.
For existing stations, leas# cost have bun estimated at 801 of that of a new station.
6/ Does not include road maintenance cost.
7/ Based on fi) five tons of cherries required per ton of parchment, Iii) a procur. price
for cherry coffee of FEu       36,000 per ton, (iii) a two month financing need, and
(ivi an interest rate of          9.5 1 p.a.
Wm
Outturn ratio                        0.82



58 
wig miui                                                                                         Annex 3, Table 9
969309032   .s  -|^            04 Z w.el bpil , -    _                                                                                             _
ism1 for do6 tw o"
lie cu_i  513 P3411
*#         1Via      6121111     19         9                              1? 6t9" 11%  6w IN  1"24        TM         m         2          2          no        m          nu
39
mny 0af46  fowliu. 623,3    404,        twi        Salo23f3all2     tw.o334,4 0    .510    M906          MIl.7     1617,91,   W9."9      W."95      alo,9     10vi  .99 16,97        oi95     W,is        3
w         u tl  ID               LI         LI         Li        1.1        1.1        L .1                 1.1 LI   M  L          . L       Li        S.l          1        LI         ..1 ,.,              3.2
?ad& 2,01w P9. 4t")            11,479     s.0       V,9        H,M       U,9          t,3      2346      *.v       41.30      461,t      413a      416,9      41,49      41.v*      43,4      431, 
New of 924          3             5         III        IS1        63        673 m      14         19        Is        16          14        13        16         12          n1       129         294       ',
6440 P12326  3M02              62104     3,33       2,16      3,23       344        39,3       2316       n23.6     25,39      2321       2,23      39,24      121        3.3        31,230    3,240      3,290
-owtv t926206 9ltd.               97         01                   a          a                    to I      M          in        120        [is        to         to         [         I6        2II $        O
P9i9 . awl ef.  4A9               a          a          a          4         23        0          3          a    3    2R                               M          a3  2                4          is        315
filn of packs"t  tiI             at         us3       2m         fit        2l         2it       tit        2s         n21         i   211  al                    2I 2nl               III        223        2'
umi" tumiivu
,9a". Smt  tw  1)             3,HI         -          -                    .          .         .          .          .          .
likidel  41                   225,a9       .                                        u,9                                          -       119                     -                    -       329,023
964cu 9w3vt    a  IglomO       9,10                                                  9 -  1,06                                            9,I'M739 
6 w          vhr l    Ret.V W 621.39      0*        20  .1     7,49 3.s4n n.,791                   9          5    0               9 *        *         *          O          e          O         O
94mu   cauttw, Ito3           2'1,3       II,614     2,769      2,145     3,94a                  61,37a    0    4                         1.1,01         I                    4          0     12,322 
Ida 33ww  30340999            34,233     34,73    34           3,34      22190I   6710,76                     4 9                        I10,=          4          4          4          a0    40a
1. _0. 23S3sbt6  2
tw,"  1.9                  2A,M        six9      a,46       3,634      3,1       3,6241    3,624       311131    3,624      3.64%      3,624      3,3l4     3,1        31,222      0,221    30,624     38,6"
tttts Cod
- 'l.ic4, I",   . V ,.2      4,99     4*99       4*,3       4*34      4*,3        4.,3       *,1       $%*       4*D4        4',a       4,03      4,9        IM         4,*3 ao   *          4,230      4,* 
2t3ar at4439mm.               13   63lm           6225      62,13      62,23      2M3       62,23      1M         1i23      6M         627        ",M       62,7       122,3      12,1l      32,173    122,7'
33t4263d9                   D,t1    29.749       men2        VIM,      2,1l1    VI,M        ",111      VI,MX     V.=X       It.=       via         t,Z9l    29,34      20,2Y      29,76     29,D       2721.
stair 304623                 4,111      4,9',M49 1.,96.a                 4        31,45      1,99       1,99      1,6        1,961 1.     99.4    1,15       5.46       2,1462     0,44      2,420      3,401
;* t'td                     1l,Wt    rt             tt       t,         t"         ,         IOt       >"        ""           ,t         g           "      f           tGe       s,           ,  
L    t' baie  rmOd. It
21ad We
-um1 I_,94    WA6 n a6.14                                   69,93     "to tn199            Mi9        Julia      99,91     TWO         23,93     99,9tu     99,99      99,53      30,330 Qm7e2.        37,9tu ,
Prevent                   l0I        win Xte2   I11.O     W. M        Min      WAS    SloW           NN*W      2SM  Wl                 MI       WIS J*ltJ b         22 3X    261 50    2M,3         U6.30          
- F bt t"i m PIN.   Itl,m  IS .0t   mm   dlSI<t  2",   tDm   ,m                                      w ,=   w.w   w.m nttt                  z1,l2,mr   w.m   2n,m  2at,m    w.m    2.
&w t*d                   34,34       3,011   9,706    09,43  I.t6.06   l7_,!S    I72o,6              It6,4     14t39      7e46,9    742,919    196,123    716,9          1t 742.522    7,2423  1 .20,1P    74,321
lildle est
-Pi"vi. d0 Sue. Of  3,1U3,1   2,15,311  4.,9,10   01,34,99   4,999,132  4,99,97,13,16    7.99,94  71,03,3    7,04,03   7,416,130  7,406,133  ?,4.53    1,414,033   7,09,13    7,620,32   7,09,31
L 236b                                I62,1    t3,3        63,ew    23,2        26,2    1 1,6        29,N       2M9O       225,27       2129    Vi29,41    270,2           27   2D0,427    23,47    27,..
r edt al  w3ifJ             12,33      6,3       6t14       21,40 lt     49    2V,99        29.165     3,46      3,13       $I,= an 1t            3,13       3099      30,73t    347m       So1,3      30,732
-Sep ad "a 036d1           3,2         34144D  A  .113     23,222     &42.2      29,71     74,93       7 77.11  II^        17.1111     1.1"     171,99     77,915    77,990      77,97     17,775     77,939
0691336a43o. Coit    392             22,99      i..1      "2p        19,11      3l,       31,611     a's        VIM       16,430     "A,n       29,3       23,43     24,020     24,42      24,431    24,0..
* 1   ,w.w  44. 6t 0 ula     3,        4,37       1,019      4,^       4,9        ism        low       km         1,4         42       942          in9,42   9,22       9,2    21 9.,22                 0,2',
*b tnOOd                  I3440  di3 4.9                  % 30.w    &^M            99.2      104        030        35.4: 'S   IN910.    39.4l    199.14    304014   1,0.46         22.054   0A7.,12     73,06,
Sm    " 0 d4    go  ON        *.i       ,9l         3,9       3.9  31      1  3I    1         as         0.4        043       0.2        41.9   0,.9          4.2        0.2        0.2       47.2   40.2
CW           II    sm.lt 4.4,1              r6St    6^11  4.tt           1t'           1jut  t ^4         wjo   1,402f* gIAHft   1jd                  0,6.uo  1,6.S3   I.i6'    0.6im 1,6
c3N.hr            l            II9 3W.2,2IU         6       i3  3041 -o             3,03       3,0        2t,ttt    23,d0      59,3       It0 ad    23,0       2360       29,420     27,99     27,420  
is _ 1 a                  I, A I 2dW 6066 3t261   pint t U    , tin.to  li,  tm ad 3MM i                         *     ,      ,7          ,         ts 41* at ,W.                               o      ,
W1 Mm of tlj  _s MU bw                    its MM   w         odOnN                   04
V  all l o e. p         0nu    s    r     111 as3  _ t.43   he rldlel, as M         -0    m     ii .   q      9      l Utu 11   tme.   MM  add
W     h 3 2     Gall   t_t 93  _     it VAN$l_     .. o     ms        mm of 1.  hr   _            to  t  o tb  _Itti _
4 _   U- is, u1        02, It      i  d_  9     wt 2 3 3 . _ _   *a, 46m   Susi. _i q d                  a     *     a.        s 392
II  34233346 lb06 10a  .41     SIa    Ia49    w         t of D   Cot   aan                  *    . tip            2*
It l3 o a6m  33q VW9of lb 4                t        9W Ofa a463                                   4 r622a i2931 d.
95 Sm. 33,,,-.. p6192494    29499 tl99rt_4t6_rd.933 r                      idii              t               11
2031  *993SMMl9t91                forl3  -W     m, 3dde. 91.2               too e   it  Odom    _   _tw itwes_.



- 59 -
8hIR)Jthl                             Annex  3, Table  10
COffEE PRWJECt
Income and Cash Flow Statemnts
tOTAL for all SOSESTALs
(in constant 1989 FBu 0001
----------------------------------------------------YEARS-------------------------------------------------------------
1990        1991         1192         1993         1994         19e5         1996        1997          Me8        1999f f
1. INCONE ANALYSIS
Income Before Depreciation,
Fin. Cost and laxes 1/             (355,0323   (458,859)   (542,533)   (622,292)   (707,1121   (796,017)   (761,759)   (742,6921   (733,1313   (733,131)
Depreciation 2/                      36,747       36,747       36,747      36,747        1,540       36,747       36,747       36,747       36,747       ';540
Cost of Short Tere Borrov. 3/        49,447       60,489       71,262      92,720       95,008      107,691      114,035      117,255      118,537     118B,57
Income Before Taxes                (442,0263   (556,0953   (650,5413   (741,7591   (903,6613   (940,4551   (912,542    (1896,694)   (888,415)   (653,208)
Taxes 4/                                  0            0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0
Incoue After Taxes                 (442,026)   (556,095)   (650,5413   1741,7593   (803,661)   (940,4553   (912,5421   (896,6941   (808,4153   (653,209)
Totai Cost per kg of parchuent
- including c!erry cost (Fgu)        237.7        238.4        238.2       237.7        236.3        237.0        234.9        233.8       233.4        232.5
- excluding cherry cost MFBu)         54.7         55.5         55.4        55.0         53.6         54.4         52.4         51.4        51.0         50.1
Equiv.cost/kg clean co. (FBu)         289.8        290.9        290.5       299.9        288.1        2M9A1        286.4        285.1        284..       293.5
It. CR) FLOI ANALYSIS
Cash Flea From Operations I/       (355,8323   (458,8593   1542,5331   (622,M2        (707,1123    (796,017)   (761,7591   (742,692)   (733,131)   (733,3313
Cost of Short Tere Borrowing         49,447       60,489       71,262      82,720       95,008      107,691      114,035      117,255      118,537     118,537
Capital Expenditures 5/             305,212       34,914       30,360      30,30        33,396      175,742            0            0            0            0
Pernanent Work. Cap. Needs 61       410,623         -            -            -            -           -            -            -
Taxes 4/                                  0            0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0
Total rash Contribution/(Fun-
ding Requirewent)              (1,121,11      1554,2621   (64,154    (735,372)   (935,517) (1,079,449)   (875,795)   (859,947)   (851,668)   (951,668)
Equity Provision 7/                 715,83Sn        -            -
Cash Surplusi(Additional Fun-
ding Reqiretent)                 (405,279)   (554,2621   (644,154)   1735,3721   (935,517) (1,079,4493   (975,7951   (959,473    (851,6683   (851,668)
----------------------Net Present Value of Csh Fla After Taxn e in real term, disc. fact. 101)1 Flu               (7,728leillion ----------------------
1/ Revenues ninus operating expenditures from Tabie an SO1E5TWLs operating ependitures and revenues.
2/  Calculated on the basis of a four-year and tenty-year deprciation period for vehicles and machinery, and for civil works, respectively.
3/  Seasonal borrowings would be required for an average of two months to finance the procurwent of coffee cherries froe farmers.
Costs are based on an interest rate of           9.5 1 pr anm.
4/ Based on present corporate income tax rate of 451.
51  From Table on SI6ESTALs' capital and operating expenditures and renues.
6/  Permanent working capital needs have been estimted at nine  onths operating expenditures, excluding expenditures for cherry coffee                                     U
procurement and the lease of washing stations.
7/  Equity vould be provided in an amount neceswy to finance capital expenditures and peranent woking capital needs.



- 60 -
IRIRNDI
COFfER2                                           Annex  3, Table  11
Estimated Annual Operating Cost of Washing Station 1/
Units           Unit Cost    Total Cost
Cost Component                Unit          Required           (F8u)       IfbuOOO\
t. Fixed Cost
- Annual Lease 2/                  wash. station              1   4,265,822:6         4,265.0
- Staff 3/
lanager                            uan-month               12       40,000.0          490.0
Assistant                          man-month               12       25,000.0          300.0
mechanic                           "a-month                12       10,000.0          120.0
Foreman - Grading                  Ban-onth                12       10,000.0          120.0
Forean - Orying                    San-month               12       10,000.0          120.0
Stares Nanager                     man-ontb                 6       10,000.0           60.0
Buyr (21                           man-month                6        6,250.0           37.5
Sr. Clerk                          man-month                3        6,250.0           10.9
Jr. Clerk  2)                      man-month                6        5,000.0           30.0
Aist. rlehanic                    san-sonth                 3        6,250.0           189.
Guard 121                          man-month               12        4,500.0           54.0
Sub Total                                                                            1 ,35.0
- Repair and ritntenance 41
Buildings and Structures            station                 I      469,430.0          469.4
Access Roads                        station                 I      150,000.0          150.0
Iachinery and Equipmnt              station                 1      443,440.0          443.4
- Wisc. lincl. office suppl.)       lump sum                  I      150,000.0          150.0
Total Fised Cost                                                                       6,937.7
2. Variable Cost
-Labor 3/
Receiving (FuMSlsan-day)       ton of parcht.             200          151.9           30.4
Pulping (FBul35/n-day)         ton of parcht.             200          101.3           20.3
Grading (FBul55/mn-day)         ton of parcht.            200          397.5           77.5
Drying If0ul55/mun-dayl         ton of parcht.            200        5,580.0        1,116.0
Storage (FBul55/man-day)        ton of parcht.            200          372.0           74.4
Sub Total                                                                              1,319.5
- Fuel and Lubricants            ton of parcht.             200          750.0          150.0
- Bags and Drying Naterials      ton of parcht.             200        1,900.0          390.0
- Niscellanmous Oper. Cost        ton of pWcht.             200          600.0          120.0
- Transport 51                   ton of parcht.             200        3,600.0          720.0
- Insurance (0.11 of valuel      ton of parcht.             200          210.0           42.0
Total Variable Cost                                                                    2,730.5
TOTAL A1A  COST                                                                        9,56.2
Operating Cost per kg of clean coffee (F8u) I/i               5B
I/ Annual processing capacity: 200tons of parchmet coffee (about lIftons of clea
coffee). It has been assumd that the nominal capacity would be fully utilized.
2/ Lease cost has besn based on vashing station investment cost finl. land, interest
during const., and conting.l estimated at F8u       3595000 , an artization period
of 30 years, and annual interest and adeinstr. chages of               10.5 2.
/ Unit cost include all benefit costs.
4/ 27, 101 and 82 of invest. cost for buildgs., roads and uch. and equip., rnpectively.
5/ Based on transport cost of FBulBJkm/ton and a distance of 200k1 (incl return trip).



-  61  -       BURUNDI
COFFEE PROJECt                        Annex  3, Table  12
Estimated Annual Operating Cost of SOGESTlA Headquarters 1/
Units        Unit Cast     Total Cost
Cost Component                Unit           Required         (FBu)        IF8u'000)
1. Staff 2/
Director                           uan-eonth           12.0      120,000.0         1,440.0
Technical Assistant                man-senth           12.0       90,000.0         1,080.0
Adin. and Financial Asst.          eanonth             12.0       90,000.0           960.0
Chief Iechanic                      man-month          12.0       60,000.0           720.0
Mechanic - Mash. Stat. (2)         man-month           24.0       25,000.0           600.0
Mechanic - Vehicles                man-month           12.0       25,000.0           300.0
Assist.  echan. - Vehicles           an-enth           12.0       15,000.0           180.0
Mason/Painter                       manmonth           12.0       20,000.0           2P.0
Carpenter                           an-sonth           12.0       20,000.0           240.0
Payment Clerk                      um-sonth            12.0       30,000.0           360.0
Accountant                         man-month           12.0       25,000.0           300.0
MIS Assistant                      fan-month           12.0       30,000.0           360.0
Secretary  2)                      man-mnth            24.0        15,000.0          360.0
Store Clerk                         ans-mnth           12.0       25,000.0           300.0
Truck Driver                        n-month            12.0       20,000.0           240.0
Orderly (2)                        man-onth            24.0        8,000.0           192.0
Suard (2)                          ma-month            24.0        10,000.0          240.0
Sub Total                                                                             9,112.0
2. Lease of Office, Store and
Workshop                            lump SUm            1.0      850.000.0          895.0
3. Repair and Maintenance
Office and Office Equip.            lump sum            1.0       190,000.0          190.0
vehicles 3/                         lump sue            1.0    2,541,500.0         2,541.5
4. Vehicle Operat.  excl. r. & a.)
Truck 4/                               km          15,000.0           95.0         1,425.0
Pick-up and 4WD (4 x 30,000kel         ke         120,000.0            40.0        4,800.0
5. Other Expenses
Travel and Entertaineent            lump sue            1.0      600,000.0           600.0
Office Supplies                     lump sum            1.0      250,000.0           250.0
Miscel. (incl. elctr.)              lump sue            1.0      300,000.0           300.0
TOTAL ANNUAL COST                                                                    19,058.5
SOSESTAL Overhead Cost per kg clean coffee (FBu) 5        2.91
ll  SOGESTAL headquarters operating cost have ben calculated assu!ing the manageent of
about 40 cashing stations. It has ben  asswmd also that the office, store and workshop
facilities would be rented.
21 Unit cost include all benefit costs.
3/ Estimated at 10 of vehicle investment cosi.
4/ Excludes transport of parchment, which is included in operating costs of mashing station
5/ Based on an annual production of 8,O00tons of parchmnt (about 6,5t0tons of clean coffee



4s.. iils-ipa
aad      a wry olo kmq a.  i
-  h.a     bsnp  IdOl pica" ledqUim
I  8   9      to  Ias  Iu t        Al 1esm    h Is                            t     n       U      2        
. .  .    .    .    .     f      ta--t--  -- --  --        - la..    ..    ..      ..--                        --     --     --     ..     ..     --
9.dAMAlAlm it PSahi.
4%vim qaW      ni Iasa    Ni    MS             USI                   -                    -                            m                                         m      .               
2. bwda6 isuAuMM
is) Law 21                                     66  3-  -M  Us  OM  -0  t   45  435  GOM  GS eM  OM  Gus 4M  4m  eM   Gs  On  em  em  am
*aasifoohs                                     si      i     M       gm                                 m     a                                  I m a   m un    us    Mg    onu  m  SI     mg    M
IvursI28  hi 
M   Ls 1*2                                     514    MB   am    inH   iai   1MI    WS   am    UN6  n53    6mm    NO    1i    216   I 22 1 511   OMs   1                     25GB    = 22 1 S     AM
oil  BuNOW ssap se.       -      -im                        1a                    m                    M       vi             I    M      31    M       M0      v0     MI    MI    3MI    M0    U
*Erls ad frse  gmI                 -     .      *      U       5     3      i       u     u      u     m   I-i a      -1     -I    E-     -M    -11       -l    -       -s     -i     -      -      -
mua4aI  aa                        assn              411         as1    r    ur  on    m      El   nom    m1    III   Sun    of   t1d   tug    of1    upi    of3  kad    SW3              of   123
mm. -   sum   as                  ma      ui  936~~~~-;;a    -_-211--                       . .  . ..iN   *...S .2m.w ...m . i .....   ...2. ......  ........  a....  .....  ....  .....  ......
Isam.u  muss,; -camis-u    -ms                                 ii    aaON    tin    usm    ont   nu    "an   go         m      ?n     mm     wei   "uSy   1111   pin    1591      I     1111 am a nm   PiA
it  uno               .ll     43.    .39    4150  511110  6559  352           G NMilM W    14S  2193   UN   MOi   SUS 6M 1             93 n  lt  1466   WMa    Bill   1916   3M    Gi" ll 33
W- ~     of am         m2   *e     am       414   45   an6   num    mi  am  me     a sa AM m    am     sties  m    sam   una    mltsa                       rem 113  12   illS 31931       516w   l
.... -.....33....
m t Ushs WMmmi eda  am Mli  Ia~6 mW  WI   Ils,~ las p1mii8lS  mss; a ISmO PU Wild - 0.92 Msi toa S. i0.09 C44 Ms SUb VW  2 ad 5. til.aa  iuat, ha hm  Amm  d 2MB t,esn pm ta. 
Is f S ni sepsi   s MW obh"OS ofai Po"  fim me all          fewso a  m".us
11 (Istsome d III o4 1he kma teaM 9.4 qal aepmuhais meduiso Wd.
as (s141tuslaIa  II b hd5S55  VNI641  sdik Swer a posse cpus. IN&V*    ~I visa sal pn   smuminq subt the tsue  pass, 9010 ha him liisitti N GlilOf ubitfa csils, Op ba, eq1siam, to di a.11 Prs trol..
of it has M" etal"t.i    goN to soi  n-G   at #MI aslow1 cools he sMil dAdAble 5ff par #W lIt eta.tlmahIu8 oas5amrn ad bru,sstssof4offfe..'.
LT



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*.moadt Si1 Pie' of Palul. iP soph "JelwA,, go PsuoJA aim, So-  tinel pal  glt 'usoo mi. ts-lo s~o  p i ad wageso A*mqt a lll All=   oijoosi:to ~Popol4li lops                  450v ai linv oe "    a isstsp   'I
..
a} list,  turn  wuig @ 'wnotis   sat  ol  turn   um    In*    c  turn   uirn   lawn-olS   1twia  tau  mu s -e  mta    m el 1         S tool  sI  at 
-doll isa"it its    meallaAOun    tail      am    mis   sasa ewe    gait   sitS   miPalmsws    ms w  ws    amtag   agspa   ai l It   to
am  ass    sswa   *ma    iii    isl    a     d mw    ma x au         mx    as       Pt    Ut1Xs ittd   1zeLU       PtA  USa    UN    5 *t  P 1           Po        - VS59- an  ipbou ii- Ajw    llot          t it
,,     St              'I e          o    it m' Om                                                                                                                          t Al t m   t u I  a"   u  uI ad  a'I s  m   1   P   -  -  -  ,O,g iSm
mml ttimUI   tt  si  st mu                                  Ulm m  P   t1mm    mlam                  mum ooi i  m ulemamu                               M mum    m-  No- Sa-   ua.i VW I qi IN
'a      as    woal   am       muI towa    em         *ma    ur       mu    'edta@w Pm     isis    ms    urnx  *                  att    tw     itw    gut w            gas                                      ItZ UPiI
gig" az lw f*Wn *l""alwl co _          cot gl   an  an  gm   gi  MP t1  UZ .                                        l      I"  am- lawS ai n   MK  now"tj to    M   t                                    to SAO t n_" w lt
up  Vu  tmt  ut  RVt  mur  Mt  mu   mul um   mt  mW   mu   out im  tmu   sit tag  OM   on  as   Q1s    - 4                                                                       1-                      a'-aV-i.- slim In t H
us: st  us   Us   Ul   sat  its  u st uorn  us  tt  us  us  us  us  ns    s  us  rst  "," .    .    .                                                                                                     et pii
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ........ ....... 
OtUl  t  W    OI    MU tM   1G               O l U919   MU   0101E  Mt  $ttt *9I                     U   0114    116   URI  NI           0116 - M    GM         OR                                     of W         '11
UN"MUf  tM   MU   tUt  0t4m 0  WU  IM   MOt tt11111  "OUbIt  ty                                                                                   N    l M               .           . ca .l    011 8Wov     o
ip     II     UIIt  tstl    its    mc        fff    $111     Mt   tu        c      Su      Ol    Mo   If          m      lit    am       nu    lu        m      t1        .        .       .     
MASS puri Suldio-z
O             UK na     *U           VA -t              UK     -w    1 t      - nt    w    mu    OK n       -    gm tCt           m      t      *        t      too      -       -                        i t       I
Serll utt  ant a                      1 an   up        l an  a       1   Wl ag  a           t an  ut" an            l UN        *UI an    n  gal  tRI  an   m                   .          .       .            a AO  III
U-    -b       t     U    t-C    wt          -   t-           t     U       -A  tml           tla -t t btls  -   -   -   -     m-            oe           -          *       Mt   i1         uuu1auan   dw-
....  ....   .. .       . . .  - -       -     - - - - - -    - - ---  -  -  ---  - -  -------  -U- -    ----   - ------                                                -    S------
PU~ ~~~~~~~_ - 3m                                                             't11  i
.      -  .       .           -       -       .       -      -       -      - .- .                 - .     .        .       .                                          -      ma .                MRp
* * * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wt*t M                                                                                           W Q   w| 
W 0   ai Z
.    .              .       . .            .,  .  .                 .         .      .       .       .      .       .       .      .       .    gm      .Om*w1
lAp l0A5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~kw   apwi
ii bmt~~~~q WI heliui aip Uspi Vopeg bilgog ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~       qui#Wi
mis. aim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~pi&,
...      ...   ....     ...   ...      ...   ---       ---  ---     --.                                                                     ............
Ct t          It      a       It  t       * 1         1  n1  I 1  C1              tol i          t li            of,   6.   9            I      I,, ., ,@ ,,e e_      _ _ ,t   I,   I                   1111i"           11
,,..........    ........... ............................. ,,,,  ,,,es  ----------------------- ,,   ,                                                                     . ................'''a lw1 4'
............... ................... .... ... ......... ........... .... .................
It WIAI^ VW  1101111o Stjo 4010  Pt    k'1t OW
"rssp    tnoopoJ
... ....... ........



Financial hhlym2
Seallholdr Varier Greowg 0.1 ha of Coffee
said Oelivwirr Thirty Collie toea geeblo Statlls It
1I. constairt 34109 prices; Viii
l. 1lPIfT                                                           5        6        7       8       4        1        Ii-      12      63       14      Is       16       I?      i8       19      20       21      22       23       24      25
-L i                            ---       ---     ---     ..            -    --     ..       ..       --           -   --       -                  --- ----                         --      --      --               ---      ---
-fitabllsbeest of Plaita..
Ii)  LAW 21                   1521    3965    512       3510    1064                                                                                                                                                                 
HiI Isots 31                    -        St      26       5 234            -                         -       -        -                        -        -       -        -                         -        -       -                     
-loChs                                  tw1o0                                                                                                   too    NC - - - - -  3                             IIC       -                -       -  
-laid Pul-pi--------t---   ---4---/---   ----                                                   - ------    ---   -------  ------ ------- -     - -                                                                                 
Total Capital Eopedituem           287     640      635      4247    261         0      -      19200                                               19110    -                                          40                                   
2. Iawatiag lopieditit
-4saito. Uaisteaec
f6)  Labw  21                   -                          6     253      4225    4225     45 4225    4      221ZI    422    422      4225    4225    4Z5      4Z53    422       422     422      4225    425    422       425    422        4225
iil lawsta3/                    -       -        -        110     527      87       1  m    m       81       08      31       81       08      81       31      37       31       373     31       08        8      08       31      0 
farosetims hi
1i)  Lote  21                   -       -        -        134     40      IW4    2139    2117    1436    163    I53    216           234      653    192    ISM         2348    229      153      IM9      153     2340    229      1528    1259
liil BUMSt, am"eitc.            -       -        -        300     300      300     300      300     300      300     30       D        343     300      300      330     300      33      30D      30      38       300      300     300      300 
-Pelpieg aid trying 41           -        -            -       -        -       -            -                         -       -                                                                                                                                  Cy%  - - --     
-Teset of Thertes 61        -        -       -          18    351      845    1248    122       3M9      Wl    397    ldS63 39M              37     637      P97    1630I8 9339         9       0    1 1397    1305    1339       1191     M 13
Total Opatisg Costs                 -        -        -      1532    4314    7646    879       313    702       6991IN           914      11   137  131   7132    13        91I3    9837 13           7132    183      9103    9837    133       1535 
11. GM   R061E1E 71/                                         1296    583    14840   20736   20528   1364        972    1494   n50        2363   14981   1603    6498    2264    22248   6498    6603    14984   VW68    233   14901   13176
Ill. MT1 EVITS                    -237     -640    -80      -44 -    -578    431    194        91      513      212      10    1357    13211    so         365     130    13512   13211    ?$06    1472    786    I35M    13211    700           521
Fu;illy Laor-C                 1613    4362    629       491B    5318    4619    7612    151       0448    33    664         193      713     61       SW5     66N      13       1359    0600    595      666      793      7M5     661      6377
IV. FlUS'S tM  FL03               -1200   -204    -250        434    4740   12302   14931  17116   12438    3542   I312    26502   21070   11141    9400   I372    26502   21078   I372               7426   1372    21502   21070   33126   61993
----                                                           --                    -      --........--- ---.V...................bt- ------23--.
It It has tie mSsdw thalt the farmer maid devlop his plaitation ovuw a Wen Veow period - 0.02 he is yew 6, aid 8.04 be in each yew 2 ad3. Planings dinsity an Iee shiel at 2600 tree per bi.
21 Estimated at VROOSO/sam-day.
31  for fertuljiir only. Other inputs are provided by the So,irsit free of chrge.
61 lbt reqired unwr fwwer deliver cher collie to matbiog statios,.
SI  Esliutid at t0? of lIe base cost of c.ptatl sapeditwee excluding Inad.                                                                                                                                                                               t
6/ Calceleted an the basis of varying yields owe  a pruning cycle. lbs averap asnal yield stertiog with the sKacd Pruning cycle has kis estiated at 4740kq of cherry coffee Wi  km, eqivaluat to About i.Sbq per tree.                                   x
71  Baudon a.prodncer price of Vii          36.l pe  kg of chewrycolfee.
el  It has bee  estimated thet up to BO ea-daye.f faiily labor could be adsh  availabla pe  yea  4cr 9. esteblishait, siaiteeaie aid hareastingof coffee.
0'-



-mis', seqiO  to 3 ii es  qgft tomluid ualt  mtoa e l w  1 *
*pu'th,gstw wmgpusie ~''   go so~ se  igjgovestfogl p9 Mgwspel  it
* get  ' u n q q  p     .       w        g       g      o      s     a         m        s~~~~~~~~~~WI g
6119    -  553  ILlS   139    SRI   UP    LIII   was   we    istol    go    LIE1   UZI   gm  I9   gm    Am     ICU   LILY    1*1   1551t   MY    egd$   uwI                to Awl Aig
KOO   dgW  911    139    NU    Ott-  aM            qgw    tue   WUg   Sitg      U       g       M    MI  MW P t-        t   I6    UNL   toll   KOIC-   Mgn-   Mg5-  319-  tin-                   sailiu   In 1Is
815    LU     15    91    tiL   dll   taa    tot"    m     ta            dug   a       Ng"   tw 31           ti      am ass cM                  mmettoe    MGu     .      .      .             o s no, M     -
UN    u      us    us       "is   to       " us    u       M us          usk    Ms     u  us          us "   usl   us    an    us11   us1   us    us                                               bio grodl,.esp
Stv    Il      13   tot   (it    LU        dig   0(U       ml   la       M      sI    03       MtI  du       as    got    kiI       ml   Lu       on1    LI        .                                Ifl-pit',
$K     K    l       at       K     we    $K        $K     on      MK    fu      $K    MN    MN    uK         us    UK        K W          UK11K a         K 111-                        ',*gqpqsu.gi
awwt   to        6K      mi    ait    Ngt   MI    6"          in    MI    Ks6   to         I       NSt    la    LU       lot    Au1     Ms    in    Lit                                        It-  -   IL  l
Ms kittsm.w
UR  WI an  to  an  an  UR  to  up  an  an  an  WI  go  WI  WI  WI  up  up  tol  as  o    -   -   -                                                                                                #a aw  e
0wWIUa VWil-
*  - -              .    Pa        -       -                    -      as      -                     -      -      ase                          55      P     55 fL11V9Kb  Pit   wl*
*  ~~ ~~   ~~    ~~~.  .   .      .       .          .      .      .                  . .           . .    .              .  .           .*     .          .          .              of Almq mus
-     *       -       .      .       .      -      -~~~~~~~.      . .         . .            .  .- -      .     .         .              e.             M      gm                #tol41
-   -                      -       -~~~          ~~     ~~~ .   -    .        .            -.      .      .  .     .        .       .      .      .            -    usc
eWnuqeda pug*t 5
U  IL    IL    U~~t    IL       9      It     Ut     it     91    II       it     ts      a      it     le      G       I                                                  I15SM'
of b,4  W  indiq am  Umes  immoe bellesowe
c.4e3 Os It Vil hNMA -wi assesne
$"APvq s'31eo
ii............
I- 1110



- 66 -
Annex 3, Table 17
BURUNDI
COFFEE PROJECT
OFFICE DU CAFE - Annual Operating Cost
Unit Cost      Total Cost Foreign ExchDuties k Taxes
Cost Item                  Unit         Units Needed     FBkOOO          FBu'OOO       (I          (W)
Personnel Cost 1/
Director 6eneral                      man month                12          220.0        2,640.0         0.0         0.0
Director Finance and Administration   man month                12          140.0        1,680.0         0.0         0.0
Financial Analyst                     ean month                12          120.0        1,440.0         0.0         0.0
Economist & Statistician              man month                12          130.0        1,560.0         0.0         0.0
Director Marketing                    man mnth                 12          180.0        2,160.0         0.0         0.0
Export Officer                        man sonth                12          120.0        1,440.0         0.0         0.0
Principal Liquorr Q2)                 ean month                24          140.V        3,360.0         0.u         u
Liquarer (4)                          man mnth                 49           90.0        4,320.0         0.0         0.0
Technology Officer                    man  onth                12           80.0          960.0         0.0         0.0
tEgineering Assistant                 man month                12           90.0          960.0         0.0         0.0
Administrative Secretary              man month                12           50.0          600.0         0.0         0.0
Secretary (3)                         man  onth                36           40.0        1,440.0         0.0         0.0
Clerk (6)                             Ian month                72           40.0        2,980.0         0.0         0.0
Driver (4)                            man month                49           25.0        1,200.0         0.0         0.0
Orderly 14)                           man month                48           10.0          490.0         0.0         0.0
6uard (2)                             man month                24           10.0          240.0         0.0         0.0
Seb Total                                                                              27,360.0         0.0         0.0
Technical Assistance                  man month                12        1,730.0       20,760.0        80.0         0.0
Training                              lump sum                  1       10,000.0       10,000.0        60.0         0.0
Office Rent                             month                  12          150.0        1,800.0         0.0         0.0
Vehicle Operation                      1000ke                 60            60.0        3,t600.0       75.0        20.0
Travel and Entertainment              lump suN                  I        1,000.0        1,000.0        20.0         0.0
Office Supplies                       lump sum                  1          500.0          500.0        60.0        15.0
Niscellaneous                         lump gum                  1        7,000.0        7,000.0        40.0         0.0
Total Operating Cost                                                                   72,020.0        39.7         1 1
__ Man month cost inclu   a   al- oance  and fg   ef i_ -. - - -
I/ llan nonth cost include all allovances and fringe benfits.



- 67 -                                          Annex 4, Table  1 (1i
lRUnIu
Coffee Sector Project
Econauic Analysis
Table I Project Costs
159O    1991   1992  1993   1994   1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2015
Project Year                         1       2      3      4      5      6      7      9      9     10    11    26
HEY PARMfETER5
Exchange Rate (fBeIUSM)            173
Incremental lashing Stations
Sogestal Ng0zi                       0       0      8      6      7
Sogestal Kayanza                     7       a      0      7      7
Sogestal Nuyinga                     7       7      0      0      0
Sogestal Kirimiro                    0       0      8      3      5
Sogestal husirwa                     0       5      6      6      3
Annual Tot. increc. wash. stat.     14      20    22    22    22
Total Increo. wash. stat.           14      34    56    7a    100    100   100   100   100   100   100    100
Clean coffee processed (tons)            1,148  3,132 5,773  9,069 12,726 14,694 16,138 17,040 17,220 17,220 17,220
COSTS
A-Washing Stations
Construction Hashing Stations
Unit Cost (1000 Fbu)            37.77   37.77 37.77  37.77  37.77       0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Total Cost                     528.72  755.32 930.85 930.85 930.95      0      0      0      0      0     0      0
Access Roads
Unit Cost per vash. stat.        1.65    1.65   1.65   1.65   1.65
Total Access Roads              23.10      33  36.30  36.30  36.30      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Equi pment
Vehicles                         5.19       0      0  5.19       0
Spare parts for u.s.            21.25   30.36  33.40  33.40  33.40      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Total equipeent                 26.44   30.36  33.40  39.58  33.40      0      0      0      0      0     0      0
Technical Assistance            23.72   23.72  23.72  23.72  23.72
Operatino. costs supervision     5.89    5.89   5.99   5.99   5.89
Total washino Stations          607.96  949.2  930.15 935.33 930.15     0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Of uhich foreign exchange /a   276.45 395.79 423.02 425.39 423.02       0      0      0      0      0      0     0
Of uhich taxes 1b               99.50  124.90 136.95 137.71 136.95      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
I\ISTITUTION BUILDIN6
Office des Cafes kc              51.63   20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51
Sogestals ic                     80.44   49.07      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Sodeco /c                        11.65  23.30       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0
9CC Ic                           11.65  11.65       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Total Institution build.       155.37  104.54  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51  20.51
Of which foreign exch. /d       92.72   62.39  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24  12.24
Of which Taxes le                9.62    6.47   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27   1.27
RESEARCH
Coordination Research             4.01   19.47   4.26   4.26   4.26   4.26      0      0      0      0      0     0
Soil conservation                  .28    .97   .29    .28   .28   .28   .28   .28   .28    .28   .29   .28
hashing technology               50.47   31.45  31.99   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10
Off-flavors studies              52.52   34.70  29.58   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31   3.31
Coffee husbandery                .0.07   15.35  10.27  10.52  10.32   9.77   9.77   9.77   9.77   9.77   9.77   9.77
Coffee Agronoey                  44.60   52.21  41.60  14.19  14.19  12.79  12.79  12.79  12.79  12.79  12.79  12.79
Soil and leaf analysis            9.22   42.28  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54  10.54



- 68 -
Annex 4, Table  1 (2)
Entomology                          4.48    9.15   4.48   4.40   4.49   4.49   4.49   4.48   4.49   4.48   4.48   4.49
C8D and rust                       7.47   15.01   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47   7.47
Varietal research                   5.74   11.69   6.16   7.14   6.75   6.75   6.75   6.75   6.75   6.7e   6.75   6.75
Seed production                      .49    5.00    .46    .49    .49    .49    .49    .49    .49    .49    .49    .49
Studies                             1.80    7.32   3.78   3.79   3.79   3.79   3.79   3.78   3.79   3.79   3.78   3.78
lonxtoring and Evaluation            .96    2.06    .96    .96    .96    .96    .96    .96    .96    .96    .96    .96
Documentation                       1.14    5.92   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14   1.14
On-Farr Trials                     4.59    8.46   4.59   4.79   4.59   4.59   4.59   4.59   4.59   4.59   4.59   4.59
Training                           9.22   11.86  14.93  10.30   7.79   7.79   7.79   7.79   7.79   7.79   7.79   7.79
Total Research                   205.06  271.79 172.38  87.74  94.44  82.49  79.23  78.23  79.23  79.23  78.23  78.23
Total for 100 stations            104.62  139.67  87.95  44.76  43.00  42.09  39.91  39.91  39.91  39.91  39.91  39.91
Of which foreign exchange /f      57.93   76.65  48.61  24.74  23.91  23.26  22.06  22.06  22.06  22.06  22.06  22.06
Of uhich taxes ig                  6.20    9.21   5.21   2.65   2.55   2.49   2.36   2.36   2.36   2.36   2.36   2.36
TRAINING                          15.37   14.83  15.34  14.30  14.30  10.64  10.64  10.64  10.64  10.64  10.64  30.64
Of which foreign exchange Ih       11.91   11.40  11.79  10.99  10.99   8.17   8.17   8.17   8.17   9.17   9.17   9.17
Of ihich taxes ii                     0        0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0
SOBESTAL OPERATING COSTS
Overhead 11
Fixed Costs IFbu million)
Salaries and wages                19.03   46.21  76.10 106.00 135.90 135.90 135.90 135.90 135.90 135.90 135.90 135.90
Repair, maintenance,access road  14.98   36.14  59.52  82.90 106.29 106.29 106.28 106.28 106.28 106.29 106.29 106.29
fiscellaneous                     .-10    5.10   8.40  11.70      15      15     15     15     15     15      15     15
Total Fixed Costs (FBu million)   36.01   87.44 144.02 200.60 257.18 257.18 257.19 257.18 257.19 257.18 257.19 257.18
Variables costs IFbu/kg parchment)
Labor                             6.59    6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59   6.59
gags and drying material           1.90    1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90   1.90
Transport                         4.14    4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14   4.14
Others                             1.56    1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56   1.56
Total variables costs              14.19   14.19  14.19  14.19  14.19  14.19  t4.19  14.19  14.19  14.19  14.19  14.19
Total variablelkg parchment        14.19   14.19  14.19  14.19  W1419  14.19  14.19  14.19  14.19  14.l9  14.19  14.19
Total variableikg clean            17.31   17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31  17.31
Total Operating costs (Fbu *illio 36.01  107.31 199.24 300.52 414.15 477.45 511.51 536.49 552.1G 555.22 555.22 555.22
Of which foreign exchange /i     21.60   64.39 118.94 190.31 240.49 286.47 306.91 321.09 331.26 3.13 333.13 333.13
Of which taxes /k                 2.16    6.44  11.99  19.03  24.85  28.65  30.69  32.19  33.13  33.31  33.31  33.31
Total Financial Costs               919    1214   1252   1315   1422    551    583    608    623    626    626    626
adjustment for shadow exch.rate      46      60     61     65     72      33     35     36     37     30     39      39
3 Taxes)                          -107    -146   -155   -160   -166    -32    -3    -36    -37    -37    -37    -37
Total Econosic Costs                059    1129   1158   1221   1328    551    593    609    624    627    627    627
/a vashing stations Foreign exchange component:      45 S
lb washing stations: percentage of taxes             15 1
/c project costs 1196 total washing stations I 100 project washing stations
/d institutional building :foreign exchange    a    60 2
/e ipstitutional building :taxes u                    6 S
/f research :foreign exchange                        55 2



69  -Annex  4, Table  1  (3)
/g research :Taxes                                       6 2
Ih training :foreign exchange                      :    77 7
/i training: Taxes                                       0 x
Ij operation washing stations: foreign exchange-    60 l
It taxes washing stations                       :        6 T
11 It is expected that the creation of the Sogestals vould incur no additional
operating costs over the current ROC coffee operation activities



-70 -
Annex  4, Table 2  (1)
BURUNDI
Coffee Sector Project
Economic Analysis
Table 2. Benefits
Scenario lithout ICA Quotas
1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2015
Premiun froa incremental fully washed coffee
Increwsital washing stations
Year of operation                   0      1      2      3       4       5
F.V. Parchaent per v.s. (tons)      0    100    130    160    200      210      210     210     210     210    210      210
Clean coffee per u.s. (tons) I      0     82    107   131       164     172     172     172     172    i3d      172     172
Nb of incremental Stations 21      14     20     22     22      22
Cumulated Nb of incresental us     14    34      56     78     100      100     100     100     100     100     100     100
Incresental clean coffee (tons)        1,148  3,132  5,773   9,069  12,726  14,694  16,138  17,040  17,220  17,220  17,220
Premium per kg of fully vashed 32.238 40.764 49.707 55.018  61.446  63.944  65.692  67.441  67.441  70.698  72.187  72.187
Value in eillion FOU                      47    153   318      557     814      965    1068    1149    1217    1243    1243
Penaltv for Washed Coffee
negative I of ICO                   0      1      2      3       4       5        5       5       5       5       5       5
Total Production (clean)       41,000 44,000 47,000 48,000  49,300  50,000  50,OOO  50,000  50,000  30,000  30,000  50,000
Total Exports (clean)          39,000 42,000 45,000 47,333  48,500  50,000  30,000  30,000  50,000  50,000  50,000  50,000
Production of Fully washed (parchment)
Sogestal Kayanza               2,700  3,600  4,860  5,540   6,640   7,950   8,410   8,760   8,900   8,900   8,900   8,900
S*gestal Ngozi                 5,450  5,750  5,910  6,810   7,850   8,990   9,630   9,930  10,050  30,030  10,050  10,050
Sogestal Kirimiro              5,420  6,200  6,310  6,980   7,600   8,330   8,740   8,920   9,000   9,000   9,000   9,000
Sogestal husirwa               1,700  2,690  3,750  4,850   6,000   7,180   7,780   8,080   9,200   8,200   8,200   8,200
Sagestal Muyinga               1,800  2,650  3,790  4,410   4,760   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900   4,900
Total Sogestals (parchment)    17,070 20,890 24,620 28,590  32,850  37,250  39,460  40,590  41,050  41,030  41,050  41,050
Total Sogestals Iclean)        13,997 17,130 20,188 23,444  26,937  30,545  32,357  33,294  33,661  33,661  33,661  33,661
Of which
Existing waFning stations     12,849 13,833 14,366 14,325  14,145  14,030  13,974  13,358  12,833  12,653  12,653  12,653
Outside pruject                1,148  2,149  2,690  3,346   3,723   3,788   3,788   3,789   3,788   3,788   3,798   3,788
Project washing stations           0  1,148  3,132  5,773   9,06-  12,726  14,694  16,138  17,040  17,220  17,220  17,220
Total Fully gashed             13,997 17,130 20,188 23,444  26,937  30,545  32,357  33,284  33,661  33,661  33,661  33,661
Exports fully washed (clean) 31
gain grade                    10,199 13,537 16,334 19,146  22,147  25,326  28,034  29,399  30,069  30,295  30,295  30,295
under grade                    1,133  1,504  1,815  2,127   2,461   2,814   3,115   3,267   3,341   3,366   3,366   3,366
Total exports                  11,332 15,042 18,149 21,274  24,608  28,140  31,149  32,666  33,410  33,661  33,661  33,661
Exports mashed (tons cleanl    25,003 24,870 24,912 23,990  21,563  19,453  17,643  16,716  16,339  16,339  16,339  16,339
main grade                    22,500 22,380 22,330 21,200  19,930  17,510  15,880  15,050  14,710  14,710  14,710  14,710
under grade                    2,300  2,490  2,490  2,360   2,210   1,940   1,760   1,670   1,670   1,670   1,670   1,670
Discount (FBuikg clean)          .000  3.533  7.792 12.259  17.037  22.161  22.767  23.372  23.372  24.497  25.016  25.016
Total discount (FBu million)        0     88    193    293     367     431      402     391     382     400     409    409
Productivity pains 4/               0     11    30    55        87      122     141     155     164     165     165     165



Annex  4, Table  2  (2)
Total Benefits (FOu million)           0    146    376    666    1012    1367    1503    1634    I695    1793    1817    1917
Foreign exchange adjustaent            0     15      39      67     101      137      1S5     163      169      178      192     192
Economic benefits                      0    160    414    732    1113    1504    1659    1797    1964    1961    1999    1999
1/ ratio clean/parchment:            .02
2/ from Table 1: Project costs
3/ export: 13 of production of current year + 2/3 of production of previous year
4/ productivity gains:
incresental fully vashed production I (1811.79 t 190/.92)



-72 -                                       Annex 4,Table351L
BURUNOI
Coffee Sector Project
Ecanomic Analysis
Table 3. Econodic Price of Coffee
(Prices in constant 1989 US$ per ton of clean coffeel
Scenario lithout ICA Quotas
1990   1991   1992  1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  I9   2000  2015
Projected ICO Indicator Price UScts/lb 1/
Without ICA Quotas                           90    93   102    107    112   116   120    123   123   129   131   131
lith ICA Quotas                             130    128   124   123    122   122    122   122   122   121   121   121
Projected ICO Indicator Price (OOOUSSIton)
Without ICA Quotas                         1,760  2,040  2,250  2,360  2,460  2,560  2,630  2,700  2,700  2,830  2-990  2,990
lith ICA Quotas                           2,960  2,916  2,728  2,706  2,694  2,684  2,694  2,694  2,684  2,662  2,662  2,662
Price sensitivity (?)
Adjusted ICO Irdicator Price
(other sild arabicas, ea-dock lNe York)    1,760  2,040  2,250  2,360  2,460  2,560  2,630  2,700  2,700  2,630  2,890  2,990
Average Presius for Burundi Coffee
Wi) fully washed coffee
percentage of premium main grade        11.0  12.0  13.0   14.0  15.0  15.0   15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0
- premium main grade                  193.6  24.8  292.5  330.4  369.0  384.0  394.5  405.0  405.0  424.5  433.5  433.5
- premium under grade 2/              (197.1)(212.21(216.01(207.71(1l96.9 (204.9)(210.4, (216.0)(216.0) (226.41(23!.2)(231.2)
(ii) semi mashed coffee with project 31
- premium main grade                     .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0
- under grade                        (352.03 (409.0)(450.01 (472.03 1492.03 (512.0) (526.01(540.0) (540.0)(566.0) (578.0)(579.0)
liiil semi washed coffee without project 4/
percentage of penalty                    .0   1.0   2.0    3.0    4.0   5.0   5.0    5.0   5.0   3.0    5.0   5.0
- main grade                             .0  (20.4) (45.6) (70.9) (98.43(129.0)(131.5)(135.0)(135.0)(141.53(144.5)(144.5)
- under grade                         (352.0) (42.6)(495.4)(543.41(591.2)(641.0)(658.33 (676.0) (676.03 (709.5)(723.51(723.5)
Transport, Insurance, Handling (fob
Dar es Salam to ex-doc New York)
(13   Transport of containerized
coffee froe DeS to NY 51             125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0  125.0
(ii)  Landing charges NY                   47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0  47.0
(iii  Ad valoree charges ind.
insurance 10.5 U1
fully washed
- ain grade                       9.8  11.4  12.7  13.5  14.1  14.7  15.1  15.5  15.5  16.3  16.6  16.6
- under grade                     7.8   9.1   10.2   10.8  11.3  11.9  12.1   12.4  12.4  13.0  13.3  13.3
semi mashed
- main grade                      9.8   10.2  11.3  11.8  12,3  12.8  13.2  13.5  13.5  14.2  14.5  14.5
- under grade                     7.0   9.2   9.0   9.4    9.8   10.2  10.5  10.8  10.9  11.3  11.6   11.6
Projected Coffee Export Price
(fob Bar es Salaae equivalent)
lil Fully washed coffee
- main grade                           1,772  2,101  2,359  2,505  2,643  2,757  2,837  2,917  2,917  3,066  3,135  3,135
- under grade                           1,383  1,647  1,952  1,970  2,090  2,171  2,236  2,300  2,300  2,419  2,474  2,474



-73 -                                            Annex 4, T1ble  3  (2
(ii) Semi washed coffee with project
- eain grade                            1,519  1,858  2,067  2,176  2,276  2,375  2,445  2,515  2,515  2,644  2,704  2,704
- under grade                           1,229  1,452  1,619  1,707  1,786  1,966  1,921  1,977  1,977  2,081  2,128  2,128
lii) Semi mashed cofiee without project
- main grade                            1,579  1,837  2,022  2,105  2,177  2,247  2,313  2,390  2,380  2,502  2,559  2,559
- under grade                           1,225  1,431  1,574  1,635  1,687  1,737  1,789  1,841  1,841  1,938  1,993  1,993
Projected Coffee Export Price  F8U per kg  6i
(fob Bar es Salaam equivalent)
(il Fully washed coffee
- main grade                           306.53 363.54 407.90 433.36 457.21 477.01 490.97 504.72 504.72 530.46 542.33 542.33
- under grade                          239.27 284.88 320.37 340.73 359.92 .75.66 386.74 397.83 397.83 418.41 427.92 427.92
- average                              299.80 355.67 399.14 424.09 447.47 466.97 480.45 494.03 494.03 519.25 530.89 530.89
(ii) Semi vashed coffee with project
- main grade                           273.20 321.40 357.55 376.48 393.70 410.91 422.96 435.01 435.01 457.39 467.71 467.71
- under grade                          212.61 251.17 280.09 295.23 309,01 322.78 '32.42 342.06 342.06 359.96 368.22 368.22
- average                              267.14 314.38 349.90 369.36 385.23 402.10 413.90 425.71 425.71 447.64 *57.76 457.76
(iii) Semi-Mashed coffee without pruiect
- main grade                           273.20 317.87 349.76 364.23 376.67 388.77 400.21 411.65 411.65 432.91 442.72 442.72
- under grade                          212.61 247.60 272.23 282.98 291.04 300.46 309.49 318.53 318.53 335.31 343.05 343.05
- average                              267.14 310.94 342.01 356.10 368.19 379.93 391.14 402.34 402.34 423.15 432.75 432.75
Fully Mashed
Transport Costs
- Bujumbura  - Kigaoa (incl. loading)       .965   .965  .965   .965  .965  .965   .965  .965  .965  .965  .965  .965
- Kigoma forwarding fees (USS13.6It)       2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353
- Kigoaa- Dar (payable in US$V  7/         7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439
- Bar - foruard fee (payable in US$1 B/    3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.1!9  3.119  3.119  3.119
Insurance (payable in US$) 91               .711   .844  .947  1.006  1.062  1.108  1.140  1.172  1.172  1.232  1.260  1.260
Bank Commission (0.55! of coffee value)     1.649  1.956  2.195  2.333  2.461  2.568  2.642  2.717  2.717  2.856  2.920  2.920
Transport Losses                            1.499  1.778  1.996  2.120  2.237  2.334  2.402  2.470  2.470  2.596  2.654  2.654
Storage Bujumbura 10/                        .604   .604  .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604
F.O.B. Bujumbura F8U/kg Fully Mashed       282.07 337.22 380.13 404.76 427.84 446.99 460.39 473.80 473.90 498.69 510.18 510.19
Semi Mashed
Transport Costs
- Bujumbura  - Kigoma (incl. loading)       .965   .965  .965   .965   .965   .965   .965  .965   .965   .965   .965   .965
- Kigau forwarding fees (US$13.6/tl        2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.353  2.3   2.353
- Kigama- Dar (payable in US$) t/          7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439  7.439
- Bar - forward fee (payable in US$) 8/   3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119  3.119
Insurance (payable in US$V  9/               .634   .746  .830  .974   .914   .954   .982  1.010  1.010  1.062  1.086  1.086
Bank Commission (0.55% of coffee value)     1.469  1.729  1.924  2.026  2.119  2.212  2.276  2.341  2.341  2.462  2.518  2.518
Transport Losses                            1.336  1.572  1.749  1.842  1.926  2.010  2.070  2.129  2.129  2.238 2.299  2.289
Storage Bujumbura 10/                        .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604   .604  .604   .604   .604   .604
F.0.8. Buja washed with project (F9u/kg)    249.9  296.5  331.4  349.7  366.4  393.0  394.7  406.4  406.4  428.0  438.0  438.0                            1
F.O.B. Buja mashed without project (FDuIkg) 249.8  292.9  323.6  337.5  349.4  360.9  371.9  393.0  383.0  403.5  413.0  413.0



-  74  -                                            Annex  4, Table  3(3)
Preeius for Fully Mashed in FlU/kg            32.24  40.76  48.71  55.02  61.45  63.94  65.69  67.44  67.44  70.69  72.19  72.19
Discount for semi-washed coffee in F8u/kg        .00   3.53   7.79  12.26  17.04  22.16  22.77  23.37  23.37  24.50  25.02  25.02
I Projections based on IIRD cosmodity price forecasts (other mild arabicas, ex-dock New Yorkl
21 Under grades sell at 802 of the sain grade price
3/ Based on past sal", it has been estisated that Burundi seei-washed coffee (ain grade 4 would continue to sell
at a price sisilar to the IC0 indicator. Under grades would sell at a 20 2 discount
* In a vithout projett situation it has been estimated that the reduction of the percentage of fully washed would result in a
have a negative ispact on the image of Burundi Coffee, that would result progressively
in a disecunt of 52 on the price of semi-washed coffee
5J Calculated on the basis of a 20 foot container holding 16.8 tons of clean coffee                                                                                    L
61 Exchange rate FSUISUS                  a  173
71 Costs are based on rail and road charges of USS40 and US) 70 per ton , respectively, and assuming that 90 2 of transport
would be in rail
8/ Based on fee of UStS9.2 or USS$16.5 per ton, depending on arrival I,y rail or road; 90 2 of transport assumed by rail
91 Costs are calculated at 0.22m and 0.3925X of the value of the different coffee qualities, depending on transport by
rail or road respectively
10/ Calculated on the basis of an average storage charge of FhuS.75 per day and ton, and an average storage period of 3.5 month



- 75 -
Annex 4 - Tabte 3 ( )
ICO Indicator OtheR  milds           a
Noel
~1u
PwoJect Yeas



-  76  -                                                    Annex  4, Table  1  (1)
BURUNDI
Coffee Sector Project
Econoaic Analysis
Table 4. Econoaic Rate of Return
Scenario Without ICA Quota
1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 2001 2002  2015
Econosic benefits          0    160   414   732  1113  1504  1659  1797  1864  1961  1999 1999 1999  1999
Economic costs         -858  -1128 -1158 -1221 -1328  -551  -583  -608  -624  -627  -627 -627 -627  -627
Net cashflom           -858   -967  -745  -489  -216   953  1076  1189  1240  1334  1372 1372 1372  1372
Discount rate                    20    22    24    26    28    30    32    34    36    38
Net Present Value               294   -82  -381  -621  -BIS  -972 -1100 -1204 -12   -1360
ERR                      .22
!u



- 77 -
Annex E - Table 4 ;')
Econwic Flows
U
A                                                                         x
a
ProJect Years



- 78 -
Annex 4, Table 4 (3)
BURUNDI
Coffee Sector Project
Economic Analysis
Table 4. Econouic Rate of Return
Scenario iithout ICA Quota
Sensitivity Analysis
Base    Nyp.   Hyp. Hyp.  Hyp.  Hyp.  Hyp.  Hyp.  Hyp. Hyp.  Hyp.  Hyp  Hyp.
Case     I      11   III    IV      V    VI    VIl   Vil  IS    S    11 Sll
Change in benefits        0       0   -10   -20   -30   -35   -40       0     0      0     0    0    0
Change in Costs           0      25     0     0      0     0     0    10    20    30    40  45   50
ERR                      22      15    19    15    12    10       9   19    17    14    13   12 11
Project Year           1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 2001 2002  2015
Adjusted Cashflou      -85O   -967  -745  -489  -216   953  1076  1199  1240  1334  1372 1372 1372  1372
ERR     .22 %
Net Present Value
FBU USS
(millioa(illion)
'WV       at             12  3,243 18.75
.



_9                                                                             3ir 
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
COFFEE WASHING STATIONS
*    EXSlNG WASHING STATONS
COFFEE GROWNGAREAS:                                                            RWANDA
MEDIUM POTENTAl 
W   POITENITL 
NO POTENTAL,
MAJO ROADS                       7
PROVINCECATAS
* NATWIONl CAPITA
-Rvw   S OINDAWRIES .'s- 
-INTERNAT*IOAL BOUNDARES
l f>TANZANIA 
Kb-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b'
3.                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.
ZAIRE             j    |
)   -   .clv ' *j.,/>t '  20 40clww
4It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
40            ~~~~Tofangj&on i
.| O  \\,t -*- , 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR                                                                                 K  W  ENYA
TANZANIA                         O.
TANZANIA
2! 9                                                     lb                                                          oonl                           u0EN
3E , ZP   "'  I '    ' S  Ibl5p            300                                A                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN  



2~-                                            30- 
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT                                                                      /
SOGESTAL AREAS
El 3 SCGESTAL MUYINGA-KIRUNDO
SOGESTAL NGOZI                                                 RWANDA           !
[=3 SOGESTAL KAYANZA                                    oo                           \
El SOGESTAL MUMIRWA                             p
SOGESTAL KIRIMIRO      '                      aI e
Q  EXISTING WASHING STATIONS
MAJOR ROADS                                           Giteranyi (
o  PROVINCE CAPITALS
*NATIONAL CAPITAL(                  A
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                    ......
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  * i
"N                                                       ...              0000 : f O  TANZANIA
3 io
30          G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
ZA;RE        CGnkuzo
.~~~~~~bz                                             Ai                                             ,.
To 8ukaou
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oi~~~~~~~4
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
: ~~Lake-  ut   
4  2     Tnn~~gONGEOGERuR__                                                            __ew___=
/  t ~~~~~ *  %,    Kzpgoro  /                           JX~~~~~~~~~~~UGA~NDA/
ZAIRE                    KENYA
|   -  j    <      <   'J            ~~TANZANIA                 URI                         /
J          *            A   {.                                          9H                         SJ:N V'ccN
3E0 \,   6.-_._._(;_#P     t \k &  TANZANIA          2D  a
d KI | g 7/ j\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  g7ri .W%.AN 
219-                                         roK loo                                        uf 



