Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL IJSE ONLY
Report No. 16590
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 2123-BU)
May 20, 1997
Agriculture 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS a
1990       1991       1992   1  1993        1994       1995       1996
171        182        208    1   243        253     250           303
US$1.00 equivalent in Burundi francs (FBu)
aPeriod Averages(IFS May 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMF                 Assets Management Facility
ASSP                Agricultural Sector Services Project
BCC                 Burundi Coffee Company
CFD                 Caisse Fran,aise de D6veloppement (ex-CCCE -
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique)
CIRAD               Centre de Cooperation Internationale pour la Recherche Agricole
et le Developpement (French coordinating authority for tropical
agricultural research)
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FAC                 Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Assistance)
GOB                 Government of Burundi
GRQ                 Grille de Remuneration Qualitative
ICA                 International Coffee Agreement
ISABU               Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
OCIBU               Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
OdC                 Office du Cafe
PA                  Producers Association
PASA                Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles
RDC                 Regional Development Company
SODECO              Societ6 de Deparchage et de Conditionnement
SOGESTAL            Societe de Gestion de Stations de Lavage
Vice President      Callisto Madavo
Director            Nils 0. Tcheyan
Technical Manager   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader    Bhagwanti Khushalani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2123-BU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................................                                                                            i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................... 1
INTRODUCTION ...............................................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................................1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................................                                                2
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............................................................                                                       8
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE ..............................................................                                                        8
PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  .............................................................. 10
BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................................................                                                                10
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..............................................................                                                            I 1
ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME .............................................................. 11
FUTURE OPERATIONS ...............................................................11
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..............................................................                                                             12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..............................................................                                                                13
TABLE  1:         SUMM      ARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ..............................................................                                 13
TABLE  2:  RELATED  BANK  CREDITS ..............................................................                                               15
TABLE  3:  PROJECT  TIMETABLE ..............................................................                                                   15
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .................. 16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................. 16
TABLE  6:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR  PROJECT  OPERATION .............................................................. 16
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ....................................17...                                    .      .      . ....... 17
TABLE  8A: PROJECT  COSTS ..................17......................                                 ...............     ................ 17
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .................................................... 18
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...................................................                                                      18
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...................................................                                                        19
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .                                                               .................................. 2 1
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ...................................................                                                 21
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                             ................................................... 22
APPENDIX
APPENDIX A: Borrower's Evaluation Summary and Comments
Map
This document hag a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2123 BU)
1. PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Coffee Sector Project in
Burundi for which an IDA Credit 2123-BU in the amount of US$28.0 million (SDR 21.3 million)
was approved on April 10, 1990 and became effective on November 16, 1990.
The Credit was closed, as scheduled, on July 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place on
February 18, 1997 at which time a balance of US$13.3 million was cancelled. The project was to be
cofinanced by CFD, FAC, CIRAD and Belgian Assistance with a total amount of US$ 9.0 million.
The draft ICR was prepared by FAO Cooperative Program (Mr. Trupke)/World Bank team,
based on a review of documents available at the Bank. Due to the severe civil disturbances, a
country visit could not be undertaken which seriously affects the comprehensiveness of the ICR.
The draft FAO/CP report was substantially revised and updated by Ms. Bhagwanti Khushalani,
AFTA2, who also finalized the report incorporating the views of Messrs. Claude Carlier, Tree Crop
Specialist, M. Muhtar, AFTA2, Charles Bolduc (Consultant - previously task manager of the
project), Deo Ndikumana of Burundi Resident Mission, Joseph Baah-Dwomoh, Technical Manager,
AFTA2, Mr. Francois Nankobogo, CD9, and Nils 0. Tcheyan. Country Director. The Borrower's
own evaluation has been received and its Executive Summary is included as Appendix A to this ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2123 BU)
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    High altitude arabica coffee is Burundi's major export crop, grown on some 500,000
smallholdings and supporting about 50 percent of the farm population. Recognizing the important
role of coffee in the economy, GOB, supported by a number of donors, has made major efforts to
increase the productivity of the sector. Prior to this Coffee Sector Project, IDA assistance to the
coffee sub-sector was provided through four agricultural development projects . These projects
tackled the key technical aspects, including the introduction and expanded use of the wet processing
technology (washing stations), but had not addressed the fundamental institutional and financial
issues which were hampering the optimization of the coffee sector's contribution to the country's
economy.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objective of the project was to improve the earning ability of Burundi coffee,
the country's principal export crop. To achieve this, the project was to implement (a) a package of
policy and institutional reforms to improve the efficiency of the industry including reorganizing
existing institutions and opening the industry up to private investors and attracting private capital
and (b) investments in coffee washing stations (so as to increase the share of wet processed coffee,
leading to higher value exports), coffee research and training. The project objectives were clear,
realistic and most relevant to the country and the sector.
Achievement of Objectives
3.    The project has provided funding for an extensive institutional reform program and a
substantial investment program in processing facilities, research and training.
4.    Institutional Reforms. The institutional reform program aimed at (a) achieving a more
rational and efficient organization of the industry by separating it from its Government structure and
dismantling the existing monopolies; (b) introducing competition in export marketing through the
establishment of an auction system; (c) replacing the fixed pricing system with an incentive based
payment system and, for the Government, replacing the levy on the margin by a direct export tax.
5.    As planned, the existing structures were reorganized into four different entities i.e. (i) the
Office du cafe (OdC) with mostly regulatory and policy formulation functions; (ii) five Societes de
Gestion de Stations de Lavage (SOGESTALs), autonomous companies specialized in the
management of the washing stations; (iii) the Societe de Deparchage et de Conditionnement
(SODECO) to operate the country's two hulling factories, and (iv) the Assets Management Facility



ii
and hulling factories) and to lease them out to the above operating companies in order to recover
their investment costs. The ownership of these newly created entities was open to private sector
participation and investment, including representation on the board of directors and purchase of
shares and assets. By 1995, only two of the five SOGESTALs had majority private sector share
holding, mainly from banks and private traders. In addition, competition was to be introduced by
allowing the independent construction and operation of washing stations and hulling factories by
private investors.
6.    While the initial stages of the reform program were slow due to opposition within the
Government, the institutional restructuring process was largely completed by mid-1992.
Privatization, however, was slower and still has not reached the expected levels. Moreover, the
dynamism anticipated from private-sector type entities did not materialize. The staff of the created
entities, who were mostly from the former OCIBU and the former Regional Development
Corporationss (RDCs), also retained their largely bureaucratic attitude. There was no privately
owned washing station or hulling factory until recently when a permit was issued to a privately-
owned hulling company (SONICAFE) before July 31, 1996, the closing date of the project. The
prevailing pricing/remuneration system which, even in its revised form, does not expose operators to
market forces other than for quality-related incentives.
7.    The introduction of an auction facility, open to local and foreign exporters, is performing
quite well although in a slightly modified form than initially introduced.  This successfully
challenged and replaced the coffee marketing monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company (BCC).
BCC's share of exported coffee amounted to about 10 percent in 1995, trading on equal grounds
with 16 other private buyers/exporters. As a result, the coffee marketing operation became
transparent and competitive and resulted in higher returns to the industry.
8.    To replace the former 'echelle mobile' pricing system, the project introduced a system
known as "Grille de Remuneration Qualitative (GRQ)" which allowed the payment of quality-based
premia to operators, including farmers, to encourage quality production. From the beginning, the
newly designed pricing and remuneration system suffered from the government imposed
maintenance of a fixed producer floor price as GOB saw the full liberalization, combined with the
risk of falling world prices, as too dangerous for the fragile socio-economic fabric of the country.
Reports indicate that up to 1993, some improvement in quality took place but only marginal amounts
of the resulting export price increases were eventually passed on to the farmers. Under the GRQ,
processors i.e., SOGESTALs and SODECO purchase the coffee, process it for an annually fixed
margin and sell it to the subsequent buyers. The absence of competition and weaknesses in
accounting prevented the achievement of processing costs at efficiency levels. In the course of
project implementation, recommendation was made to transfer ownership and control of the
SOGESTALs and SODECO to producer associations, thus allowing producers to retain ownership of
the coffee up to the export stage and, in so doing, eliminating the rationale for the GRQ. This was
poorly received by the coffee companies. According to the private sector representatives, retention
of the GRQ was the result not of the absence of producers'associations, but of the lack of political
will to deregulate prices throughout the sector so as to introduce competition.
9.    Under the GRQ, a stabilization fund was maintained. GOB had responsibility to replenish
the fund in situations of deficit due to the lowering of world market prices, as happened in 1991/92.
Money to replenish the stabilization fund at that time was provided largely by the European Union's



iii
STABEX and French Assistance. Past practice of appropriating all excess funds as budgetary
resource was replaced by a progressive export tax (presently amounting to about 19 percent)
allowing the ploughing back of incremental sales profits into the sector, including producers.
10.   Investment Program. The cornerstone of the investment program was the construction of up
to 100 additional washing stations and related access roads, to increase the country's production
capacity of fully washed coffee from an estimated 16,500 tons at appraisal to about 37,000 tons at
full development. Thirty nine of these stations were constructed in 1991 and 1992, of which 30
were financed by IDA and 9 by CFD. The unit cost of these stations turned out to be a lot more
expensive than anticipated. This period coincided with the substantial fall in world coffee prices
which resulted from the abandonment of the quota system under the International Coffee Agreement.
The prevailing climate of uncertainty and the inability to ascertain when prices would return to
appraisal time levels, raised the risk of not achieving the anticipated viability of the washing stations.
This factor weighed heavily in the decision to halt the construction program in 1993. Another factor
influencing this decision was the assessment made, also at that time, that the country's coffee
production potential would not reach the level originally estimated at appraisal (constituting the
justification for the number of stations to be built). Among the factors responsible for this situation
were the neglect, abandonment and uprooting of trees, many of which had been planted in the years
immediately preceding the project, a situation partly attributable to: (i) lack of support from the
Government, (ii) slow implementation of the Agricultural Services Project (PASA) which was meant
to provide extension support at farmer level, and (iii) the fact that the new coffee plantations were
mainly established on marginal land and had poor production and therefore the farmers decided to
use the land for other purposes.
11.   Investments in training took place as planned, although the selection of participants in
overseas training suffered from some shortcomings leading to a temporary suspension of the
program. The research program was initially not well focused and too conservative, however,
progress was made after the mid-term review recommendations, especially with regard to
overcoming the off-flavor problem, affecting the image of Burundi coffee in the world market.
Project Cost and Financing
12.   At appraisal the total project costs were estimated to be US$46.3 million financed by an IDA
credit of US$28.0 million including a Project Preparation Fund (PPF) of US$650.000, a CFD loan of
US$6.1 million, FAC and CIRAD grants of US$1.5 and 0.4 millions respectively, and a Belgian
Assistance grant of US$1.0 million. GOB contribution had been estimated at US$9.3 million.
13.   Due mainly to the substantial reduction in the construction of the coffee washing station
program, total disbursement amounted to only US$16.1 million i.e. about 57.5 percent of the
appraisal estimate of US$28.0 million. Project costs have been re-estimated at US$30.7 million,
excluding the additional US$1.4 million from  STABEX  used mainly for rehabilitation and
improvement of infrastructure and facilities.
Implementation Experience and Results
14.   Although the project had a good start, implementation of the institutional reform program
was delayed by one year due to political resistance within the Government. The investment



iv
program, especially the construction of washing stations, proceeded as scheduled and was halted
only when it was realized that their viability was threatened because of the fall in world prices,
higher construction costs and decrease in estimated potential production (para 34). The introduction
of the auction system was a success (para 18). However, the main factor that affected project
implementation was the deteriorating civil situation from 1993 onwards, resulting in staff losses,
damage or destruction of equipment and abandonment and uprooting of coffee trees some of which
had been planted immediately preceeding the project. The erratic behavior of world market prices
adversely affected project performance, at least initially (para 36). Further, the GOB's firm stand on
the maintenance of an administered pricing/payment system did not allow the free play of market
forces required to instill efficiency and cost consciousness in the entities of the industry created by
the project.
Project Sustainability
15.   Though a number of the proposed institutions were established under the institutional
reform, some of them did not have the expected autonomy but still do carry out the functions
anticipated. There were other reforms that were put in place that became well established and
operational. The auction system, for example, has been well accepted by all economic operators and
had been functional until about August 1996 when it stopped with the trade embargo. It appears,
however, that there is still a lot of interest in the auction system (from both the private sector and the
Government) and it is likely to restart when the political situation improves. The prevailing pricing
system still fosters inefficiency, especially in the operations of both SODECO and SOGESTALs
(paras 18-20). While the viability of the washing stations was being questioned at the time world
coffee prices were at their historical low, these would likely remain useful and economical although
this would need to be verified when normal operating conditions are restored. The issue of
equipment maintenance could also affect project sustainability since maintenance responsibility is
not clear and the rent charged to SOGESTALs is not enough to cover the maintenance costs.
Bank Performance
16.   The Bank's performance can be assessed as marginally satisfactory. Given what transpired
in terms of the policy reforms, there were some design issues that, on hindsight, could have been
done otherwise. The Bank proposed a pricing system that turned out to be unworkable and provided
little incentive for improving efficiency.  Coffee production estimates appear to have been
unrealistic, and that some of the proposed institutional reform measures did not go far enough.
However, the Bank tried to address some of these issues during supervision but the lack of political
will prevented this from being fully implemented.
Borrower Performance
17.   The performance of the Borrower was generally satisfactory particularly with regard to
adhering to the covenants of the Credit Agreement. However, there was resistance within the
Government, resulting in: (a) delaying the pre-agreed institutional reforms; (b) a bitter struggle to
replace the inefficient BCC by the full auctions; (c) attempts to dip into the surpluses of the
stabilization fund to supplement the Government's revenues; and (d) delaying the introduction of
competition at the processing level by resisting the privatization process. However, some of the
delays could be attributed to the lag between the preparation and finalization of the law on



v
privatization (which occurred eight months after the start of the project), as part of the
macroeconomic reforms (SAC III), and the launching of the institutional reform process in the
sector. The reform process initiated as soon as the project became effective, but had to be suspended
until the privatization law was finalized. The lack of Government's willingness to deregulate
producer prices also affected the project implementation. This position appeared to mellow towards
the end of project implementation as the idea of farmer associations sank in.
Assessment of Outcome
18.   The overall outcome of the project could be considered as marginally satisfactory.  It
achieved a number of institutional restructuring and development objectives including a substantial
increase in the proportion of fully washed coffee for exports, resulting in increased export earning.
However, the project was unable to open up the industry to private investors or attract any large
private capital. It is likely that some of the institutional reforms initiated under the project will be
sustainable once the political situation improves. The auction system created was well established
and operational before the civil unrest, although it has been affected by the recent trade embargo.
Furthermore, it is expected to underpin the eventual full liberalization of the sector, including a
competitive remuneration system. However, the lack of comprehensive relevant data does not allow
a re-estimation of the ERR at the time of preparation of this ICR (see Preface).
Summary of F"indings, Futnre Operations and Key Lessons Learned
19.   Key findings. The implementation experience has shown that the continued success of the
sector reform program hinges on a liberalized pricing and payment policy, without which efficiency,
cost consciousness and private sector involvement cannot be fully assured.  Despite the
Government's official commitment to the reform process, the greatest obstacle to private sector
participation and price liberalization was, throughout the project, the resistance coming from within
the Government to further relinquishing control of the industry to the private sector and the fear that
subjecting producers to the variability of world market prices would result in instability in the
countryside. The acceptance of the idea of farmer associations which would retain ownership of the
coffee, as well as absorb some price variability, only came towards the end of implementation.
20.   Future Operations. With the closing of the project, operational support for the activities has
ceased.  In order to ensure continuation of certain core activities for the sector such as,
research/extension services, producer associations formation, pest/disease control and transfer of
applicable technologies, it was proposed to provide necessary resources through the Agricultural
Services Project (I ASA). However, the PASA project has now been closed due to continuing
difficult country conditions. The government continues to be committed to advance the privatization
process, however, unless the pricing system is liberalized, future progress will be small and slow.
The Bank would start discussions soon with the Government on the appropriate support that can be
provided to the sector.
21.   Key lessons learned.
(a)  Although this was not a stated objective of the project, attention could have been
given, in the design of the project, to the organization of farmer representation on
the Board of the OdC.



vi
(b)  The risk of overly bureaucratic behavior of the newly created entities could have
been avoided by introducing a more competitive environment.
(c)  Project financed research would have been more productive if, alongside the
traditional agricultural research, efforts had been directed towards identifying and
eliminating commercial constraints.
(d)  The impact of the training program was affected by poor selection of trainees
resulting in a mismatch between training needs of the individuals and the training
offered. However the lasting value of the training depends on personnel stability.
More stringent and clearer regulations and selection criteria should have been
adopted, especially for the overseas training.
(e)  Utilization and the management of the appropriate technical assistance not only
supports the project but works as a capacity building tool.
(f)  If the coffee production is to be high in both quantity and quality, training and
extension should be integrated into the sector and made its responsibility.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2123 BU)
3. PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
1.    High altitude arabica coffee is Burundi's major export crop. Arabica coffee is grown on
some 500,000 smallholdings supporting about 50 percent of the farrn population. Very limited
quantities of robusta coffee are grown at lower altitudes, mostly on industrial plantations.
Considering that coffee generates 75 to 85 percent of the country's foreign exchange, the
Government of Burundi (GOB) has, over the years, undertaken measures to increase production
through the expansion, intensification and replanting of coffee areas, strengthening and diversifying
research, improving the cultivation methods, including the use of insecticides. As a result, the
country's production potential has increased from an average of about 20,000 tons in 1976/80 to an
estimated peak of 45,000 to 50,000 tons in 1992.
2.    GOB's efforts to enhance the productivity of the coffee sector was supported by a number of
donors. IDA assistance was provided through three projects in the Buyenzzi and Kayanza regions
(otherwise known as Ngozi I, II and III) and the Kirimiro Project. These projects also pioneered the
production of fully washed arabica coffee in Burundi through the introduction and expanded use of
wet processing technology (washing stations) recognizing the potential for higher returns for "fully
washed" coffee.
3.    The Coffee Sector Project (CSP) originated from the desire of the GOB to accelerate its
washing station construction program. During preparation, however, it became clear that, in
addition, substantial reforms were needed to enable the industry to improve its efficiency in the face
of increasing production and a tighter and more competitive market. In order to achieve this, the
Government's role in the industry had to be reduced and/or redefined, private sector participation
had to be increased, and competition had to be introduced.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The primary objective of the project was to improve the earning ability of Burundi coffee,
the country's principal export crop. To achieve this, the project was to implement (a) a package of
policy and institutional reforms to improve the efficiency of the industry including reorganizing
existing institutions and opening the industry up to private investors and attracting private capital
and (b) investment in coffee washing stations, coffee research and training so as to increase the share
of wet processed coffee, leading to higher value exports.



2
5.    The project objectives were clear, realistic and most relevant to the country and the sector.
The project aimed at reorganizing the entire institutional framework and pricing system of the
country's coffee sector, downstream from the post harvest stage, in a relatively short period.
Upstream support to producers was to be provided through the Agricultural Services Project
(PASA). Together with the PASA at the time, the Coffee Sector Project constituted an important
cornerstone of the Bank's agricultural strategy in Burundi. Preparation was carried out with the full
participation of the Government and staff of the institutions concerned.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
6.    In order to achieve its objectives, the project provided funding for an extensive institutional
reform program and a substantial investment program in processing facilities, infrastructure,
research and training.
7.    Institutional Reforms. At the time of appraisal, with the exception of the producers and
private traders , all other aspects of the coffee industry were fully state owned and operated through
a number of parastatal organizations, including: (a) the Office des cultures industrielles du Burundi
(OCIBU) responsible for, among other things, operating the hulling factories, maintenance of hand-
pulping facilities and procurement and distribution of insecticide; (b) the Regional Development
Companies (RDC), the regional arms of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, in addition to their
general agricultural responsibilities, including extension, were responsible for operating the washing
stations; and (c) the Burundi Coffee Company (BCC) which held the export marketing monopoly. A
fully administered pricing system known as the "echelle mobile" was in place, which, starting from a
fixed producer price, provided remuneration for the various economic operators and fed an
equalization fund to even out world market price fluctuations. GOB's share in coffee receipts was
drawn from the margin, i.e., after all participants from production to marketing had been paid and
the equalization fund had been replenished up to its statutory 1 billion FBU.
8.    The built-in shortcomings of these institutions which operated both as monopolies and as
branches of the administration and, also the inadequacy of the payment system (especially the lack
of incentives) indicated that performance could be raised through improvements in efficiency. GOB,
therefore, agreed to the restructuring of the industry into separate and privatisable entities, each with
clearly defined functions, establishment of competition in export marketing, and introduction of
incentives in the payment system. The resulting action program supported by the project was: (a)
creation of a regulatory authority (Office du Cafd) to replace the OCIBU; (b) establishment of five
autonomous companies (SOGESTALs) specialized in the management of coffee washing stations,
and one autonomous company (SODECO) to operate the country's two hulling factories; these
companies as well as individual washing stations, would be open to private ownership; (c)
establishment of an Assets Management Facility to centralize the administration of the Government-
owned physical assets in the industry (which would be leased to the operating companies); (d)
replacement of the 'echelle mobile' by an incentive-based payment system for producers and
intermediaries, as well as the establishment of a direct export tax to replace the Government's levy
on margin; and (e) establishment of an auction facility for private exporters to compete with the
state-owned BCC. The progress made in achieving these reforms is given below:
1 Responsible for transporting fanners' coffee from the producing areas to the hulling factories.



3
9.    Office du Cafe (OdC). As foreseen at appraisal, all new entities were to be established at
the beginning of 1991. The OdC was established as a regulatory authority in the form of a mixed
capital company with the difference that its shares, rather than being sold to investors, were
distributed to various industry groups (i.e. SODECO, SOGESTALs, producers, bankers,
government, etc.). It is governed by a Board of Directors composed of representatives from the
major shareholders and is responsible for formulating strategy on production, processing, marketing,
research and training. It also monitors the industry, supervises the new payment system (see para
19) and manages the auction system. In addition, OdC was responsible for the implementation of
the project except for the research component which was the responsibility of the "Institut des
Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU)". OdC office operations were to be financed from a
levy on coffee export revenues.
10.   The initial stages of the reform program were slow due to opposition from within the
Government which resulted in the need to carry out a lengthy second count of the inventory to be
transferred to the Asset Management Facility. There were also some staffing problems. However,
the institutional restructuring process was largely completed by mid 1992, some six months to a year
later than initially envisaged. Overall, the OdC was very supportive of the project throughout its
implementation.  The OdC Board, however, was over politicized and always demonstrated
considerable timidity in its relations with the Government. It also failed, at times, to develop action
plans to address key issues which were clearly within its jurisdiction. Cases in point were issues
with regard to the relations between the SOGESTALs and SODECO and the matter of helping
private exporters to alleviate foreign exchange risks. Another fundamental problem was the inability
2
of the Board to address effectively the matter of adequate farmer representation . The disposal of
left-over assets from the dissolved OCIBU, including a small coffee roasting facility and a portfolio
of properties, never took place. The financial monitoring and control of the industry, including
OdC's own accounts performance, were never timely and did not reach the anticipated standards.
Part of these problems could be attributed to the lack of qualified staff at management and technical
levels, combined with overstaffing of personnel not always qualified and motivated. Most of the
staff were from the former OCIBU and Regional Development Corporations (RDCs) not familiar
with the dynamics of private sector operations.
10.   SOGESTALs. Five autonomous companies3 have been created to manage the washing
stations which were leased from the Assets Management Facility (AMF) (see para. 15). Initially the
SOGESTALs were to be owned largely by GOB, however, their legal status was such (and still is)
that it allows for their progressive passage from public to privately owned enterprises and the
ownership of their capital shares was open to private investors. The SOGESTALs were given the
legal autonomy needed to operate as efficiently as they could under private ownership conditions
which also included their ownership of coffee for washing.
2For lack of any organizational structure through which farmer representatives could be selected by the
producers themselves, coffee growers were represented by provisional appointees selected by OdC
from among the larger farmers.
SOGESTALs of Ngozi, Kayanza, Kirimiro, Mum irwa and Muyinga.



4
11.   Management of the SOGESTALs was mixed throughout the project period. The staff of
the washing stations were not always motivated to work efficiently or to provide an attractive service
to their client farmers. However, it must be emphasized that in spite of the difficult socio-political
situation in the country, most of the washing stations kept operating, even in very difficult
conditions. Some of them bought "semi-washed" coffee during the periods of insecurity when even
the private traders could not operate. It is expected that the emergence of the privately-owned mini-
washing stations, together with a further liberalization of producer prices, will eventually pressure
the SOGESTALs to improve their performance. This will have to be complemented by privatization
of the SOGESTALs themselves. The mid-term review suggested that Producer Associations (PAs)
should be formed around the SOGESTALs who would then buy shares in these companies, mainly
from the funds generated from bonus payments to producers over and above the floor prices. There
was considerable sympathy to this proposal from within the post 1993 Government but it could not
be implemented due to the increasing civil disturbances in the countryside in the period that
followed. By 1995, two of the five SOGESTALs had majority private sector share holding, mainly
from banks and private traders.
13.   SODECO. The company was established on the same principles as the SOGESTALs and
was to manage the two hulling facilities in the country, as a successor to OCIBU. To prevent
exploitation of the SOGESTALs and others delivering coffee to their facilities, the hulling fee
charged was subject to review and approval by the OiC. As in the case of the SOGESTALs, the
assets were leased from the Assets Management Facility (AMF) (see para 16). In addition, the start-
up working capital was provided by the CFD, as foreseen at appraisal.
14.   The management and operation of SODECO and the hulling factories was not always
satisfactory. In spite of the control by OdC, SODECO behaved in a very monopolistic manner.
Since its fees were secured, the company did not pay sufficient attention to the quality of its output
and replacement/maintenance of equipment and machinery. This was compounded by the fact that
SODECO had to assume a number of functions such as coffee liquoring and grading, storage and
financing which affected the efficiency of its processing activities. As stated by the supervision
missions, only a greater privatization of SODECO, competition from future private hulling
companies, and a change in the coffee pricing system would change the situation. Currently there is
one entirely privately-owned hulling company (SONICAFE) for which the permit was granted on
July 31, 1996, the closing day of the project.
15.   Assets Management Facility (AMF).  The hulling factories and the washing stations
(including those that were to be constructed under the project), had been financed by GOB from
loans obtained from various donors. While ownership would remain, initially, in the hands of
Government, the AMF would administer these assets on the latter's behalf and lease them to the
SOGESTALs and SODECO, with the objective that leasing revenues would at least cover the
amortization of the debt incurred to finance the assets, including principal and interest. Leasing
contracts included arrangements for the repair and maintenance of the facilities (a responsibility to
be assumed mostly by the lessees) and clauses to allow the lessees to eventually gain ownership of
the assets. However, the lease contracts do not set out clearly the responsibilities of the contracting
parties in equipment maintenance.



5
16.   AMF was given the authority to sell these assets on behalf of the GOB, as indicated in the
Staff Appraisal Report. Unfortunately the AMF did not pay much attention to this aspect other than
leasing the production equipment. The terms and conditions of the leases were spelled out in 1990
and the SOGESTALs and SODECO formally became the lessees. However, the signing of the
contracts was delayed until mid-1993 and no rent was paid until then. The May 1993 supervision
mission recommended the transfer of AMF management to the banking sector in order to make it
more dynamic but this proposal was abandoned since it was too expensive. The alternative solution
was to make AMF an autonomous entity under the OdC, but this option was not pursued. There was
a proposal to adjust the legal framework for asset management, but this was never put into effect due
to country conditions. Another aspect of the lease system was the renewal of assets. The rent, as
fixed by the GRQ, did not fully cover the debt service costs, let alone provide any reserve for
equipment renewal. The leases have a 30-year term and the question of renewal of these assets at
the end of this period need to be adequately addressed.
17.   Burundi Coffee Company (BCC).  The selling of Burundi coffee for export was a
government monopoly since 1978 under the nationalized Burundi Coffee Company. However, there
was an increasing concern about BCC's lack of proficiency at marketing coffee. To overcome this
problem, the government agreed to stop BCC's monopoly position and to establish an auction
facility to sell coffee to private exporters under competitive conditions. The facility was open to
foreign and national exporters. OdC was responsible for overseeing and monitoring these auctions.
Moreover, in order to prepare BCC to operate under competition, project funds were allocated to
restructure BCC and help it recruit the staff it needed.
18.   The introduction of the auction system was a success. Already in the first year (1991/92
season) 25 percent of the coffee was sold through auctions. In the second year, this percentage
increased to 50 percent (all fully washed coffee). This prompted the decision to sell all the coffee
for export by auctions. However, this decision was only reached by the Government reluctantly since
some Government officials, despite the evidence and studies demonstrating the advantages of the
auctions, continued to resist this loss of control over the industry. Where BCC was concerned, its
share of exported coffee amounted to about 10 percent in 1995, trading on equal grounds with 16
other private buyers/exporters. As a result of the auctions, the export price process became more
transparent and resulted in higher returns to the industry. Under the auction system, exporters are
exposed to the foreign exchange risk, which, as past experience has shown, could be substantial and
could affect the profitability of the sector as a whole. To remedy this, exporters initially relied on
financing from the foreign banks abroad, however, when the country conditions worsened and the
risk situation for the bankers increased, the exporters, with the assistance of the Stabilization Fund
and local banks, set up a foreign exchange risk fund.
19.   Grille de Remuneration Qualitative (GRQ). A new pricing system was introduced under the
project to convert the fixed producer price system into a more flexible floor price system. This new
system guaranteed a floor price to producers in the case of a decreasing world market prices or
adjustments in case of higher than expected world market prices or for cost savings due to increased
efficiency of the sector. It also provided a premium to operators to improve their coffee quality.
Where the ownership of the coffee was concerned, it was transferred at each stage, i.e., from
farmer/trader to washing station, from washing station to hulling factory and from hulling factory to
auction buyers. In addition, the government's levy on the margin (see para 8) was replaced by a



6
direct export tax and a greater flexibility was introduced in setting intermediate prices for the
industry participants, including washing and hulling companies. The stabilization fund (formerly the
equalization fund) was maintained and small levies imposed for financing research, maintenance of
coffee access roads and the operation of the OdC.
20.   In spite of these improvements, the system remained extremely complex and prevented
market forces to directly influence the price/quality relationship at all levels. It did not allow for an
equitable distribution of risks. This was further aggravated by the fact that accounting was weak
throughout the sector despite the considerable amount of technical assistance and training provided
by the project. Furthermore, the system perpetuates the need for government resource allocation in
periods of low producer prices. In spite of these problems and the recommendations from the
supervision missions, GOB resisted to liberalize the pricing system, especially the abolishment of
the floor price, arguing that this would, in periods of low world market prices, lead to low producer
prices for farmers and create unrest in the rural areas. However, this argument is not valid since
most of the farm products are sold on the free market. On the other hand, the system has the
inherent risk that in periods of high world market prices, substantial surpluses could accumulate in
the stabilization fund, tempting the government to appropriate them in their totality, without any
redistribution to the economic operators, including producers.
21.   As designed under the project, the system is cumbersome and while it encourages quality
production, payments received by the participants are not based on competitive activities and,
therefore, not conducive to efficiency and may have led to some cross-border smuggling. As stated
during the mid-term review, only a full liberalization of the pricing system, accompanied by a major
privatization of the processing operations, would overcome the existing constraints of the coffee
sector.
22.   Investments. The project's investment program was to finance: (a) the construction of up to
100 coffee washing stations (including equipment); (b) access roads to the washing stations; (c) a
comprehensive coffee research program; and (d) technical and management training. The OdC was
charged with the responsibility for the organization and coordination of the program, except for
research related training which was to be coordinated by ISABU (see para 9). A small project unit
was created for the duration of the project to carry out these responsibilities.
23.   Washing Stations. At the time of appraisal, 88 washing stations were operating in the
country with a total capacity of 16,500 tons, with 8 more scheduled for construction in 1990. In
order to meet the country's expected quotas (with fully washed coffee) under the then existing
International Coffee Agreement, as well as accommodate the estimated increases in production, it
was calculated that an additional 100 washing stations would be required. According to the SAR, 80
of those stations would be financed under the IDA credit and 20 under the CFD loan.
24.   During 1991, a total of 19 washing stations were built, followed by the construction of
another 20 stations during 1992. Out of the total 39 stations, 30 were built with IDA funds and 9
with CFD funds. The unit cost of these stations turned out to be a lot more expensive than
anticipated. This period coincided with the substantial fall in world coffee prices which resulted
from the abandonment of the quota system under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA). The
prevailing climate of uncertainty and the inability to ascertain when prices would return to appraisal



7
time levels raised the risk of not achieving the anticipated viability of the washing stations. This
factor weighed heavily in the decision to halt the construction program in 1993. Another factor
influencing this decision was the assessment made, also at that time, that the country's coffee
production potential would not reach the level originally estimated at appraisal (constituting the
justification for the number of stations to be built).
25.   Realizing that with continuing low prices, uncertain production levels, and the high cost of
construction, the stations as designed were not likely to be viable, project technicians undertook to
design a model of a lower capacity station that would cost less to construct and could also be
installed in areas of lower coffee production that would not justify the larger stations. In view of
their lower capital costs, these smaller stations would also likely be more accessible to private
investors. The mid-term review mission in May 1993 recommended project support for the
construction of five smaller prototype stations to become operational for the next coffee season
(March 1994). This program, however, did not materialize due to the civil disturbances in October
1993 and the subsequent growing instability in the country.
26.   Access Roads. The project was to provide for an average of 3 kilometers of access road per
washing station to be funded under the Belgium Assistance grant. Subsequent maintenance of the
roads was the responsibility of the washing stations which used them, while funding for the
maintenance was to be obtained through a levy on coffee export receipts. Although no details on the
actual length constructed and on maintenance arrangements and performnance were available to the
mission, it has been estimated that about 120 km were constructed based on the number of washing
stations built.
27.   Coffee Research. The comprehensive research program which included inter alia coffee
agronomy, coffee berry disease, varietal and off-flavor research as well as socio-economic and
washing station technology was to be implemented by ISABU. It was to be partially financed4 by
FAC and CIRAD. It was also foreseen to reduce project funding of research operations from 100
percent in years 1 and 2, down to 20 percent in year 5, and replace it with funding from a research
levy on coffee export revenues.
28.   Initially, research objectives were not well focused, and research activities on traditional
subjects continued, however, after the mid-term review priorities were adjusted with particular
emphasis on soil fertility, soil conservation, pest control, productivity and transfer of technology.
Consequently, the research program was quite successful, especially the progress made in
overcoming the off-flavor problems. Unfortunately, the consultant who was to supervise and
evaluate the research component during December 1995 could not visit the field and the
beneficiaries. A later attempt to carry out a more detailed study had to be aborted due to the
prevailing security conditions in the country. No clear indication on the financing of research
through an export levy are available. It appears, however, that some financing through these means
took place in 1993.
Three research components namely: Processing Technology Research, Off-Flavor Research and
Agronomy Research.



8
29.   Training. The project had provided resources for training in: (a) coffee liquoring, for a total
of 30 staff in the neighboring and overseas countries; (b) coffee marketing, for 6 staff in overseas
institutions and with international coffee exporters/importers; (c) production, processing and
warehousing technology, for 27 staff in the neighboring and overseas countries; (d) administration
and financial management, for eight staff in overseas institutions; and (e) washing station operation
and management, for a total of 650 staff through a locally operated program.
30.   The program had been clearly defined at appraisal and details were worked out early in the
project with the help of an international consulting firm. However, implementation of the program
suffered from inadequate selection of trainees, especially for overseas training, a poor match
between training subjects and actual training requirements of staff, as well as lack of coordination
between the agencies requesting the training and the OdC. On the other hand, while comprehensive
figures on the implementation of the component may not be available, improvements in the staff
capabilities have been reported. One such area of improvement was coffee liquoring, an essential
operation to determine quality at all stages of production and export. Prior to the project, liquoring
was the exclusive domain of expatriates. At project end, however, all liquoring was being carried
out by nationals.
31.   Technical Assistance. The Bank was to provide support to SODECO in the form of
technical assistance in management and finance and to operate the company's sophisticated sorting
equipment. FAC and CIRAD were to provide technical assistance for the three research sub-
components, i.e., processing technology research, off-flavor research and agronomy research. There
were two full-time consultants, i.e., a Belgian consultant until July 1995 working very efficiently
with washing stations and a full time financial manager until September 1994. If the washing
stations in the country were operating efficiently, the credit should go to the Belgian consultant who
trained the Burundians to operate the system on their own and to the Dutch consultant for setting up,
training and operation of the auction system.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
32.   At appraisal the total project costs were estimated to be US$46.3 million financed by an
IDA credit of US$28.0 million including a Project Preparation Fund (PPF) of US$650,000, a CFD
loan of US$6.1 million, FAC and CIRAD grants of US$1.5 and 0.4 millions respectively, and a
Belgian Assistance grant of US$1.0 million. GOB contribution was estimated at US$9.3 million.
33.   Due mainly to the substantial reduction in the construction of the coffee washing station
program, total disbursement amounted to only US$16.1 million, i.e., about 57.5 percent of the
appraisal estimate of US$28.0 million. Project costs have been re-estimated at US$30.7 million,
excluding the additional US$1.4 million from STABEX used mainly for rehabilitation and
improvement of infrastructure and facilities damaged in the course of internal disturbances.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
34.   Project preparation started in June 1988, appraisal commenced in November 1989, the credit
was approved by the Board in April 1990 and became effective in November of the same year.
Implementation start-up, although slow at first in the case of institutional reforms, went fairly



9
smoothly and was completed by mid-1992. The investment program had a good start, especially the
construction of washing stations which proceeded as scheduled but was eventually halted when the
viability of the stations was questioned (see paras 24-25). Consequently, only US$8.7 million were
disbursed against an original appraisal estimate of US$18.0 million for the component, including
machinery and tools.
35.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control. The main factor which affected
project implementation was the civil situation in the country which deteriorated from 1993 up to the
project closing. Following the events of October 1993, a number of staff have been killed, displaced
or have disappeared; field operations were seriously affected and equipment was stolen, lost,
damaged or destroyed. The lack of security in the countryside resulted in the farmers not being able
to keep up with the maintenance levels, including collective spraying operations, which had serious
consequences on the quality of the coffee. This was further compounded by the breakdown in
operations of the Agricultural Services Support Project (PASA) which included the support of
provincial agricultural extension services.
36.   Project implementation was further affected by the erratic behavior of world market prices
for coffee which plummeted from about US cents 196 per kg in 1990 to US cents 140 per kg in
1992. This contributed to heavy losses to GOB, which was responsible for covering the stabilization
fund deficits. These deficits were eventually covered from STABEX and French assistance
resources. The subsequent dramatic increase in price to over US cents 330 per kg in 1994 and 1995
resulted in substantial profits to the stabilization fund. An attempt to distribute some of these profits
to farmers was successfully accomplished in December 1995. However, this could not be repeated
as country conditions worsened.
37.   Factors Subject to Government Control. The fact that GOB insisted from the beginning on
the maintenance of an administered pricing system limited the scope for a liberal interaction between
the market participants. The Government's threat during 1995 to expropriate the stabilization fund
could have had dampening effect on the coffee industry. Following pressure from the Bank and the
IMF, GOB retreated from this decision but reverted to raising the export tax and imposing it
retroactively.  The 31 percent tax was substantial and depleted most of the surplus of the
stabilization fund. For 1996 a more tolerable progressive tax structure has been adopted averaging at
about 19 percent. Another factor was the Government's internal resistance in fostering the
privatization process. For instance, it took over one year just to issue a license for the construction
of a private hulling facility, despite having convened to do so in its coffee sector policy. The GOB
decree authorizing the sale of its remaining shares in SODECO has been on the table for a year but
has still not been signed and promulgated.
38.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. As indicated earlier, OdC, as
the controlling implementing agency, suffered from a number of deficiencies. In particular, its
failure to operate an effective accounting system for itself and requiring it from the other operators
of the sector made it difficult to fully control the costs of the various operations and to introduce
into the GRQ a greater degree of incentive, resulting in a complacent attitude on the part of the
processors. In addition, the OdC Board lacked motivation to advance privatization, particularly at
the processing level.



10
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   Though a number of the proposed institutions were established under the institutional
reform, some of them did not have the expected autonomy but still do carry out the functions
anticipated. There were other reforms that were put in place that became well established and
operational. The auction system, for example, has been well accepted by all economic operators and
had been functional until about August 1996 when it stopped with the trade embargo. It appears,
however, that there is still a lot of interest in the auction system (from both the private sector and the
Government) and it is likely to restart when the political situation improves. The prevailing pricing
system still fosters inefficiency, especially in the operations of both SODECO and SOGESTALs
(paras 18-20).
40.   The wide fluctuations in world coffee prices, combined with uncertainties with regard to the
production potential and, above all, the unstable security situation in the countryside, made
investments in widely dispersed washing stations a very risky proposition. The risk was high for
both the Government, who initially invested in these stations, and private entrepreneurs. As a result,
the decision to stop construction in the middle of the project period was warranted and no use was
made of the project's APEX facility. However, with the return of internal stability and more
balanced world coffee prices, the availability of processing and marketing options for private
entrepreneurs, and research advances in the area of off-flavors in particular, there remains a
considerable and very attractive potential for higher quality Burundi coffee.
41.   The issue of equipment maintenance could also affect project sustainability since
maintenance responsibility is not clear and the rent charged to the SOGESTALs is not enough to
cover maintenance costs. The sustainability of research will, to a large extent, depend upon its
adequate funding through the levy introduced under the project. The investment in training will
generally be felt as long as the trained staff remain with the industry and effective use is made of
their acquired skills.
BANK PERFORMANCE
42.   Bank's performance could be assessed as marginally satisfactory. Given what transpired in
terms of the policy reforms, there were some design issues that, on hindsight, could have been done
otherwise. The Bank proposed a pricing system that turned out to be unworkable and provided little
incentive for improving efficiency. Greater emphasis on organizing farmers at the base in the early
years of the project could have facilitated the resolution of issues such as those pertaining to the
fixed producer prices. The risk of overly bureaucratic behavior of the newly created entities could
have been avoided by introducing a more competitive environment. Coffee production estimates
appear to have been unrealistic, and that some of the proposed institutional reform measures did not
go far enough. However, the Bank tried to address some of these issues during supervision but the
lack of political will prevented this from being fully implemented. Several supervision missions also
insisted on involving producer associations and even though this was not part of the project, a start
was mad in this direction. There were fewer Bank supervision missions after October 1993 due to
the security situation in the country which rendered implementation difficult during the latter part of
the project execution period.



11
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
43.   The performance of the Borrower was generally satisfactory particularly with regard to
adhering to the covenants of the Credit Agreement. However, there was resistance within the
Government, resulting in: (a) delaying the pre-agreed institutional reforms; (b) a bitter struggle to
replace the inefficient BCC by the full auctions; (c) attempts to dip into the surpluses of the
stabilization fund to supplement the Government's revenues; and (d) delaying the introduction of
competition at the processing level by resisting the privatization process. However, some of the
delays could be attributed to the lag between the preparation and finalization of the law on
privatization (which occurred eight months after the start of the project), as part of the
macroeconomic reforms (SAC III), and the launching of the institutional reform process in the
sector. The reform process initiated as soon as the project became effective, but had to be suspended
until the privatization law was finalized. The lack of Government's willingness to deregulate
producer prices also affected the project implementation. This position appeared to mellow towards
the end of project implementation as the idea of farmer associations sank in.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   As indicated, the fundamental objective of the project was to improve the earning ability of
the Burundi coffee. Quantifiable benefits were to be derived from three different sources: (i)
incremental value of coffee sales as a result of the shift from washed to fully washed coffee; (ii)
avoiding a likely discount on the price of semi-washed coffee; and (iii) quantifiable improvements in
the clean-to-parchment coffee ratio from 78 to 82 percent as a result of increased efficiencies due to
industry reforms.
45.   During preparation in 1988, it was estimated that the actual coffee production of about
31,000 tons would gradually increase to a peak of about 50,000 tons and that the proportion of fully
washed coffee would increase from about 16,500 tons to about 37,000 tons. The additional 100
washing stations to be constructed were to provide this incremental fully washed capacity. As
indicated (see para 24), only 39 washing stations were built adding about 7,800 tons capacity.
Nevertheless, the share of fully washed coffee gradually increased from 35.5 percent in 1991/2 to
over 65 percent in 1995. This was possible mainly due to the over utilization of the capacity (by the
factor of 1.5) of the existing washing stations. Consequently, the project has achieved its objective
in this aspect. For the other two expected benefits, the available data is insufficient to assess their
achievements.
46.   The project was also successful in initiating an institutional reform program which is
expected to underpin the eventual full liberalization of the sector, including a competitive
remuneration system. In light of the above, the outcome of the project has to be considered as
marginally satisfactory. This judgment is, however, made in the absence of an ERR assessment, as
its re-estimation was not possible due to lack of data (see Preface).
FUTURE OPERATIONS
47.   As indicated earlier, it would be essential to further advance the privatization process of the
SOGESTALs and SODECO, including formation of the Producer Associations (PA), phasing out of



12
the administered pricing system, fostering the privatization of the public entities, and establishment
of washing stations and hulling factories by private entrepreneurs in order to assure a competitive
business climate.
48.   Although GOB appears to be committed to proceed with the divestiture and liberalization
process, the current socio-economic and political situation is not conducive for introducing these
changes in the short term.
49.   With the closing of the project, operational support for the activities has ceased. In order to
ensure continuation of certain core activities for the sector such as, research/extension services,
producer group formation, pest/disease control and transfer of applicable technologies, it was
proposed to provide necessary resources through the PASA. However, the PASA project has now
been closed due to continuing difficult country conditions. The Bank would start discussions soon
with the Government on the appropriate support that can be provided to the sector.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   The major lessons to be drawn from project implementation experience are as follows:
(a)  Although this was not a stated objective of the project, attention could have been
given, in the design of the project, to the organization of farmer representation on
the Board of the OdC.
(b)  The risk of overly bureaucratic behavior of the newly created entities could have
been avoided by introducing a more competitive environment.
(c)  Project financed research would have been more productive if, alongside the
traditional agricultural research, efforts had been directed towards identifying and
eliminating commercial constraints.
(d)  The impact of the training program was affected by poor selection of trainees
resulting in a mismatch between training needs of the individuals and the training
offered. However the lasting value of the training depends on personnel stability.
More stringent and clearer regulations and selection criteria should have been
adopted, especially for the overseas training.
(e)  Utilization and the management of the appropriate technical assistance not only
supports the project but works as a capacity building tool.
(f)  If the coffee production is to be high in both quantity and quality, training and
extension should be integrated into the sector and made its responsibility.



13
4.    PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial  Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                             1=1
Sector Policies              [                                          E3
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development  |                                            III
Physical Objectives           al                                        E]
Poverty Reduction             a            El
Gender Issues                Li            I             El             E
Other Social Objectives                    r                            IZI
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management     a             1;             a               i
Private Sector                                           1              ra
Development
Trade and tariff reform                                  La
Cont'd.....



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B. Project Sustainability         Likely              Unlikely               Uncertain
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (/)                   (9')                    (.1)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ( 9)    (9')          (9')
Identification                         i
Preparation Assistance                                             E 
Appraisal                                                          []
Supervision
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                 satisfactory   Satisfactoiy    Deficient
(9')         (9')          (9')
Preparation                             O
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                                Eo
Operation (if applicable)               :1           E]            El
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory Satisfactory   Unsatisfactr   unsatisfactory
________ (9')  (9/)          ()             (9/)
_____L                                                 Li a 



15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan/Credit title                                     Purpose                 Year of    Status
approval
Preceding Operations
1. Kirimiro Rural Development (Cr. 11 65-BU) Agricultural area development      1981    Completed
2. Integrated Rural Development Ngozi III  Coffee and food crop development     1981    Completed
(Cr. 1192-BU)
3. Structural Adjustment (SAC I)         Adjustment operation                   1986    Completed
(Cr. 1705-BU)
4. Muyinga Agricultural Development      Agricultural area development          1987    Completed
(Cr. 1857-BU)
5. Small and Medium Enterprise Apex Credit  Package of training, TA and credit for  1988    Completed
(Cr. 1889-BU)                           small enterprises
6. Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II)  Adjustment operation                  1988    Completed
(Cr. 1919-BU)
7. Agricultural Services (Cr. 2024-BU)   Extension services                     1989    Completed
8. Agri-business Promotion (Cr. 2419-BU)  Private sector support                1992    Cancelled
Following Operations
1. Private Sector Development (APEX II)  Improving incentive framework, TA      1992    Ongoing
(Cr. 2359-BU)                          and credit
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date Planned        Date Actual/
l_________________    Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                      November 24, 1987
Preparation                                    January 1989          June 1989
Appraisal                                        May 1989         November 1989
Negotiations                                   October 1989        March 2, 1990
Board presentation                             January 1990        April 10, 1990
Signing                                                            April 20, 1990
Effectiveness                                  July 20, 1990    November 16, 1990
Midterm review (if applicable)               December 31, 1992     May 25, 1993
Project completion                           December 31, 1995   December 31, 1995
Loan closing                                   July 31, 1996       July 31, 1996



16
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ thousands)
_____________ t   4 000000;|FY9[ I Y92   FY93  J FY94 -           Y95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate           2.1     6.7    13.0    19.0      24.1     26.6     28.0
Actual                       5.1    10.1    14.2    15.8      15.9     16.0     16.1
Actual as % of estimate    243     151      109     83        66       60       58
Date of final disbursement    February 18, 1997
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                       Unit:  Est-imated. : Actual:
Creation of a regulatory authority                 number            1          1
Establishment of processing and marketing companies    number        5          5
Establishment of autonomous hulling company        number            1          1
Establishment of assets management facility        number            1          1
Construction of washing stations                   unit            100         39
Construction of access roads                       km              300        120
Technical assistance                               m/m             140       600 a
Training
- local                                          staff/          650        586
- abroad                                         numbers
staff/          71         71
numbers
Based on Govemment estimates. Includes all donor contributions.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable



17
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose                Status                    Impact
Export tax study     To determine levels of tax      Completed   Resulted in the establishment of an
and levies as well as revenue                 export tax system.
collection system and price
stabilization.
Pricing system       To review the parameters for   Completed   Resulted in the introduction of a
study                a quality based pricing                       new incentive based pricing
system.                                       system (grille de r6muneration
I______________qualitative - GRQ).
Study on mini        To redesign traditional large    Completed   Resulted in development of a
washing stations     scale stations (was not                       smaller and more cost-effective
included in SAR)                              design for private sector
investment (not implemented due
to civil disturbances in the
country).
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in US$ million)
____________________ :Appraisal estimate                                        Actual a
Itern               Local       Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign       Total
Institutional restructuring      4.6         2.8          7.4        3.8          2.3         6.1
Washing stations                14.3         10.7        25.0       10.4          7.8        18.2
Research                         2.0          2.5         4.5        2.5          3.1         5.6
Training                         0.2          0.6         0.8        0.3          0.5         0.8
Total baseline costs            21.1         16.6        37.7         -           -            -
Physical contingencies           1.7          1.4         3.1
Price contingencies              3.2          2.3         5.5         -           -            -
Total Project Costs             16.0        20.3         46.3       17.0         13.7        30.7 c
The breakdown into local and foreign cost is based on SAR assumptions.
bIncludes direct taxes of about US$5.2 million.
c Does not include additional STABEX funds of approx.US$ 1.4 million used for maintenance/improvement of infracture/facilities.



18
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate       _____  Actual a
Source            Local    Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign     Total
IBRD/IDA                    12.9       15.1      28.0        7.4        8.7       16.1
Cofinancing institutions
- CCCE                     2.9       3.2        6.1        2.4        2.9        5.3
- FAC                      0.3        1.2       1.5        0.2        1.3        1.5
- CIRAD                    0.1        0.3       0.4        0.1        0.4        0.5
- Belgian assistance       0.8        0.2       1.0        0.2        0.2        0.4
Domestic contribution        9.0        0.3        9.3       6.7        0.2        6.9
Total Project Costs         26.0       20.3       46.3      17.0       13.7       30.7
Contributions by cofinanciers and GOB are mission estimates, based on incomplete records.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
At appraisal the ERR for the project had been estimated at 22 percent.
Unfortunately, the available data base is too meager to allow a recalculation. It appears,
however, that this target cannot be reached in light of the fact that the assumed total
production of 50,000 tons by 1992, of which 33,660 would be fully washed coffee, cannot be
reached. A more likely medium to long term production scenario would be 30,000 to 35,000
tons, of which 60 percent would be fully washed coffee. Furthermore, the investment and
operating costs of the washing stations are higher than anticipated.



19
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original    Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant Present  Fulfilment  Fulfilment                    Description of                   Comments
type    status     Date        Date                         covenant
Credit    3.03 (a)    2        C                             Open/maintain a bank account in Fbu in the name of    None
2123-BU                                                      OCIBU/Office du cafe (project account)
3.03 (b)    2        C                            Deposit on project account of Fbu 35,000,000          None
3.03 (c)    2        C                            Replenishment of the project account to the initial amount  None
of Fbu 35,000,000
3.03 (d)    2        C                            Project account used for payments of expenditures for  None
parts A, B, D and E of the project
3.04                 C                            Establish/maintain a project implementation unit for part  None
B of the project (civil works-washing stations)
3.05 (a)    5        C                            BCC adopt/maintain competitive employmnent temis      None
3.05 (b)    5        C                            BCC establish/maintain a marketing department and     None
appoint a marketing manager
3.06 (a)    13       C                            Fumish a report on a study of the preparation committee  None
regarding the private auction facility
3.06 (b)    13       C                            Exchange view with Association on report's            None
recommendations
3.06 (c)    13       C                            Establish/operate the private auction facility according to  None
the recommendations acceptable to the Association
3.07 (a)    5        C                            Review of (i) implementation of the project; (ii)     None
performance of private auction facility and BCC (no later
than 2/31/92)
3.07 (b)    5        C                            Implementation of the recommendations as per 3.07 (a)  None
3.08 (a)    13       C                            Fumish report on the study described under part A.5   None
(coffee pricing system)
3.08 (b)    13       C                            Exchange views with Association on report's           None
recommendations
3.08 (c)    5        C                            Implementation of a new coffee pricing and payment    None
system
3.9         5        C                            Carry out a feasibility study for each washing station to be  None
constructed (part B. 1)
3.10        2        C                            For parts C.l and C.2, onlend to BRB the portion of the  None
credit withdrawn under categories l(b) and 3(b) (civil
works and equipment)
3.11 (a)    13       C                            Appoint a finance specialist to provide technical     None
assistance to SOGESTALs
3.11 (b)   13        C                            Appoint a training specialist                         None
3.12        13       C                            Establish by June 30, 1991 within Office du Cafe, a   None
private sector formation Comminee
4.01 (a)    2        C                            Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the  None
operations of ISABU, SODECO, SOGESTALs.
4.01 (b)    2        C                            (i) Have the records and accounts yearly audited; (ii)  None
furmish the Association a certified copy of the audit report;
(iii) fumish other information conceming the records
4.01 (c)    2        C                            For credit account withdrawals: (i) maintain records; (ii)  None
retain records at least one year; (iii) enable Association to
examine records; and (iv) ensure that such records are
included in the anniual audit report



20
Cont'd...
Covenant Class
1    - Accounts/audit
2    - Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3    - Flow and utilisation of Project funds
4    - Counterpart funding
5    - Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6    - Environmental covenants
7    - Involuntary resettlement
8    - Indigenous people
9    - Monitoring, review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 - Other
Status
C    - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No non-compliance with Bank Operational Manual Statements (OMS) was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                 ACTUAL
.___________________________________  Weeks   US$('000)
Preparation to appraisal                       85.9           223.0
Appraisal                                      30.5            80.9
Negotiations thru Board-effectiveness           5.6            15.8
Supervision                                   111.5           311.3
Completion                                     16.4            41.0
TOTAL                                         249.9           672.0



22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Days   Specialized         Implemen-    Develop-
Stage Of       Month/        No. of        in     Staff Skills         tation           ment         Types of
ProjectCyc:le       Year       Persons    Field   Represented             Status        Objectives   Problems
Through              5/88-          16       98        F,A,D,AE,M
Appraisal            11/89
Board thru           6/90-           4       22        F,AE,A
Effectiveness        10/90
Supervision 1        12/90           1        10       F                                       11
Supervision 2       3/91             1       7         F                       1               I         Staffing
Supervision 3        11/91           2        10       F,A
Supervision 4       2/92             1        15       C
Supervision 5       3-4/92           1        14       A                                       -         Research
Supervision 6       8-9/92           1        13       C
Supervision 7       9-10/92          1       5         D                                                                 l
Supervision 8        10/92           1       8         F                       2               2         Prices & Res.
Supervision 9        12/92           1        14       C                                                                 l
Supervision 10      2/93             3       20        C,D,A                                   -
Supervision 11      5/93             5       21        F, F, AE, E             2               1         Midtenrm Rev
Supervision 12      7/93             1       3         C                                       -         Coffee Prod.
Supervision 13       10/93           2       7         F, AE                   2
Supervision 14      8/94             1        16       C
Supervision 15      9/94             2       21        O,E
Supervision 16       12/94           3        14       F, MS                   S               S         Stabliz. Fund
Supervision 17       12/95           1        12       F                                                 Research
Supervision 18      3/96             1       6         F                                                 Quality, Res.
Staff Skills
A = Agronomist           D = Division Chief                  M = Marketing Specialist
AE = Agro-Economist      E = Engineer                        MS= Management Specialist
C = Consultant (van Hilten)   F = Fin. Analyst (FTL)         0 = Operations Analyst
Note: Many times there were several persons who supervised separately during the same period and for some missions only Back-
to-Office reports or Aide-memoires are available and no forms 590, hence no performance ratings were available for those
supervisions.



Appendix A
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Evaluation Summary
-sURUNDI)
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 2123-BIU)
July 1996



Resume Ex6cutif
Preparation du projet
Le 'Projet Filiere Cafe" (PFC) est ne des travaux d'une comrnission multisectorielle de
r6flexion qui avait ee mise sur pied en 1988 par le Ministre de l'Agriculture et de
I'Elevage, et cela a une epoque tout a fait particuliere. En effet, le programme
d'ajustement structurel venait d'etre adopte, avec ce que cela impliquait comme
reorientations macro-economiques et sectorielles, et un tout nouveau regime politique
qui venait de s'installer entendait revoir les strategies en vigueur pour adopter de
meilleures strategies.
Les representants des principaux bailleurs de fond sur place ont bien voulu participer a
cette reflexion. Ces bailleurs ont bien voulu financer l'intervention de consultants pour
e1argir les options disponibles ou examiner les implications des options envisagees.
Avant le projet, les operations en aval a la production primaire du cafe etaient confiees
a deux monopoles de l'Etat, I'Office du Cafe du Burundi (OCrBU) pour la
transformation du cafe et la Burundi Coffee Company pour 1'exportation. Des projets
agricoles et des Soci6t6s Regionales de Developpement avaient cree et exploitaient
pour leur compte des stations de depulpage-lavage (SDL) du cafe, produisant une
qualite superieure de cafe parche appelee Fully Washed (FW). Le projet retenu se
proposait de cr6er des societes d'econornie mixte pour prendre en char,e toutes les
operations de transformation. I se proposait aussi d'introduire un systeme de vente
aux encheres, ouvert a tous les exportateurs interesses.
Le prix au produceur etait fixe chaque annee par le Gouvernement. n en etait de
rmnme pour la remunerations des comnercants achetant le cafe parche des planteurs
pour le Livrer aux usines de deparchage. Dans le cadre du PFC, ce systeme de prix et
de marges adrministres, baptise echelle mobiie, devait progressivement disparaitre au
profit d'un systeme de prix liberalis&
Lors de la preparation du projet, les cours des cafe arabica doux etaient tres eleves sur
le marche international. Le differentiel de prix recu par les FW produits par les stations
de depulpage-lavage, par rapport aux cafes laves ordinaires (cafe Washed -W) etait
aussi tres eIeve. Le projet prevovait des lors construire de nouvelles stations de lavage
pour pratiquement tripler la production du FW
Compte tenu de la situation de l'epoque et des potentialites a exploiter, le projet etait
bien concu. n aura cependant surestime la production de cafe attendue durant les
annees du projet, car il partait des extensions de plantations qui avaient eu lieu au
cours de la decennie. Notons que le Projet d'Appui au Secteur Agricole, prepare un
peu plus tot, n'a pas bien pris en charge le volet vulgarisation agricole et transfert des
technologies appropriees, contrairement a ce qui etait envisa&e.
Le mode de conception de PFC a certes ete long, mais l'irivestissement de temps en
amont a facilite le deroulement des etapes qui ont suivi.



Exicution
L'execution du PFC a ete confiee a l'OCIBU. Une cellule legere, compos6e
essentiellement de deux cadres burundais et de deux unites d'assistance technique (AT)
a epaule I'OCIBU dans la gestion au jour le jour du projet.
Dans le cadre du financement de l'DA, la cellule a bien maitrise la fonction
d'approvisionnement en biens et services necessaires au projet, en respectant les
procedures en la matiere. Pour les autres financements exterieurs, les mecanismes
d'acquisition, geres par leurs representants sur place, ont peu implique la cellule ou les
unites assistees. Couplees aux clauses d'origine, ces procedures n'ont pas permis de
s'approvisionner aux meilleurs prix sur le marche international. Aussi, il a et remarque
que les delais de mise en place de I'AT etaient plus longs pour les financements
bilateraux.
Les rapports entre le PFC et les bailleurs de fonds ont ete marques par une excellente
relation de partenariat, en particulier vis-A-vis de la Banque Mondiale. Les missions de
supervision ont ete regulieres, jusqu'a la crise socio-politique de fin 1993. Les aide-
memoires de ces missions etaient directs et constructifs. Ils auraient gagn6 A etre
distribue a l'ensemble des parties prenantes du projet, y compris les membres du
secteur prive, lesquels auront ete sous-informrs sur la marche du projet.
Du fait de la complexite du projet et du manque d'expertise nationale dans les volets
retenus, une importante AT a ete fournie au projet. On estime A_environ 600 honmmes-
mois la quantite d'AT de loneue ou de courte duree intervenue dans les differentes
composantes. Pour le-credit IDA, le couit de ces interventions a et le double de celui
qui etait prevu initialement. Si des experts nationaux avaientt ete recrutes des le debut,
en vue d'un remplacement graduel de l'AT expatriee, un meilleur rapport
benefices/couits aurait probablement ete atteint. I convient de relever la grande
efficacite demontree par un professionnel expatrie, recrute depuis la preparation du
projet pour intervenir en rnissions de courte duree 6cheloennes sur toute la periode du
projet.
Concernant l'execution fnanciere du projet, seules les informations relatives au
financement IDA sont disponibles au PFC. Elles ont seules ete exploitees jusqu'ici. Sur
les 21.3 rnillions de droits de tirage speciaux (DTS) octroyes, seuls 11.4 rmillions
avaient ete consornmes au 3 1 Mai 1996, ce qui revient a un taux de realisation globale
de seulement 54%. Pour le poste construction de nouvelles SDL, lequel constituait la
moitie des allocations initiales, l'imperatif de rentabilisation des SDL et l'insecurite qui
a prevalu des 1994 en ont fortement contrarie la realisation.
Realisations proprement dites
Volet des politiques
La creation de nouvelles structures. Des la deuxieme annee du projet, des structures
issues des anciennes entreprises para-etatiques fonctionnaient. Ces structures,
constituees de societes rnixtes de droit prive, comprennent cinq Societes de Gestion
des Stations de Lavage (SOGESTALs) et la Societe de Gestion des usines de
deparchage (SODECO).. Deux SOGESTALs d'entre elles sont a majorite privee. La



participation des prives aurait mime pu etre plus irnportante si le Gouvernement avait
approuve la demande des actionnaires prives des SOGESTALs d'augmenter leur part
de capital dans l'industrie de la transformation du cafe. Le Gouvernement n'aurait pas
pernis cette 6volution car il voulait garantir une plus grande representativite des
planteurs. Cette attitude semble etre tout autant liee a la resistance normale au
changemnent et a la crainte de perdre le controle de precieuses ressources budgetaire
pour l'Etat.
Une usine privee d6parchage est fonctionnelle a la cl6ture du projet. Elle n'aura
cependant pas benefici  de tout l'appui requis par l'OCEBU  pour commencer a
produire dans les memes conditions que la SODECO.
La liberalisation graduelle des prix. Prevue dans le projet, elle ne sera pas arriv6e
tres loin non plus, pour les rnmees raisons. Cet aspect specifique du projet aura en
definitive et le moins reussi. Certes, la grille de remuneration qualitanive a remplace
l'ancienne echeUe mobile, et a incorpore, contrairement a cette derniere, des
mecanismes de contr6le de couts de production et d'incitation a la qualite. Elle reste
cependant un systeme de prix administre.
La liberalisation de la filre dans les pays voisins jouera, a court terme, en defaveur des
usiniers et des exportateurs burundais et, en drflnitive, en defaveur de lEtat lui-meme. Elle
exercera cependant une forte pression sur le C-ouvernenent burundais pour qu'il lUb&ralise
lui-m&ne. Ceci devrait contibuer, par la concurrence entre acheteurs, a augenter le prix
pay6 au producteur.
La vente du cafe aux encheres. Pour les exportations, la vente du cafe n'a plus et le
monopole de la Burundi Coffee Company depuis Septembre 1991. Des exportateurs
prives, ont pratiquement deplace I'ancien monopole de I'Etat dans les exportations du
caf- vert burundais. Les arneliorations de performance ont porte sur l'augrnentation du
niveau g6n6ral des prix realises a 1'exportation, la reduction des coCts financiers et le
raccourcissement des delais de rapatriement des recettes en devises. Les societes les
plus actives dans les encheres achetent cependant pour le compte des gros
torrefacteurs multinationaux, moyennant commissions. Elles ne sont pas encore
devenues, a la fin du projet, de vrais professionnels capables d'apprecier correctement
la qualite de la marchandise achetee, et de la vendre en connaissance de cause.
R61e de I'OCIBU. Dans le cadre du PFC, le nouvel Ofice du Cafe devait exercer mes
fonctions de forum pour la definition des politiques et de strategies cafeieres, de
coordination de l'industrie, de fixation de standards et d'arbitrage de conflits eventuels.
Le Gouvernement lui a assigne des fonctions encore plus precises et plus ou moins
incompatibles avec les orientations initiales, notanunent I'administration du Fonds de
Stabilisation et du service du patrimoine, la responsabilite de la grille de reinuneration
et la repartition effective-des resultats de la filiere. Dans les faits, I'OCL3U defenid plus
les interets du Gouvernement que ceux de ses autres partenaires dans la filiere.
Volet Amelioration technologique au niveau de la transformation
Dans le cadre du PFC, 37 nouveUes SDL ont ete construites, ce qui a porte le total de ces
infrastructures a 133 unites. II s'est avere que les SDL classiques, de capacite nominale de
1500 T de cerises par an, pouvaient difEcilenent etre rentabilisees aux nouveaux sites



prevus car elles fonctionneraient en dessous du seuil de rentabilit& Le nombre initial de 100
unites a donc et reduit. Des Centres de Depulpage-Lavage a taille plus reduite (500 T) et
coCitant moins de la moitie des SDL actueDes ont ete retenus conune meilleure altermative.
Els n'ont malheureusement pas ete construits. Le projet etait pret a en financer quelques
uns, pour inciter les prives a y investir eux-memes, mais l'insecurite dans le pays aura
emp&eh tout progres dans ce domaine.
Dans le domaine du deparchage, de nouveaux equipements ont ete acquis et une AT a ete
fournie a la SODECO. Les equipements ont et pour la plupart surdimensionnes et leur
coCt d'acquisition eleve, du fait qu'un appel a une concurrence elargie n'etait pas autorisme
en raison des clauses d'origines. Certains equipements, tels les sechoirs et les trieuses. a
ultraviolet, acquis a gand frais, n'ont pas ete utilises et ne le seront probablement jarnais
leur utiElte est rnise en question. Le remboursement de ce genre d'investissements impute a
la fi1iire cafe, en augmente considerablement les charges, reduit les marges beneficiaires et
amenuise les parts redistribuees A chaque partenaire.
Bien que la part du FW ait plus que double dans la production nationale, la qualite du
produit final est serieusernent compromise au niveau de certains processus de
transformation non suffisamment maitriss, rnais surtout au niveau de la production de la
matiere premiere. La crise socio-politique qui dure depuis pres de trois ans a influ6
n6oativement sur l'encadrement et l'entretien de la cafeiculture.
Volet recherche
Le PFC a soutenu financierement et techniquement la composante recherche, dans le souci
de renverser la tendance baissiere des rendements et de la qualite. Des ressources
financieres estimees a pres de 6 millions de dollars US ont et deployves; eles se sont
reparties en investissement (13%), fonctonnement (29%), formation (4%) et AT (54%).
Cette derniere a representm environ 270 honmues-mois et a intervenu a l'Institut de
Recherche Agronornique du Burundi (ISABU) dans un vaste prog-amme de recherche
essentieUement axe sur 'a!aronomie, la technologie, les etudes socio-economiques et le
transfert des technoloeies.
A la fin du projet, quelques resultats exploitables en production et qualite du cafe sont
disponibles. ]ls concernent la fertilisation, la desinsectisation, les alternatives au paiDage
complet, les techniques de taifle, la lutte anti-erosive, la valorisation de la pulpe du cafe et la
prevision des recoltes. Ils peuvent etre rapidement transferes aux planteurs. Les resuitats en
technologie n'ont pas donne lieu a des recornmandations pratiques a court terme, a cause
notamment du retrait precipite de 1'expert technologue expatrie.
Le transfert de technologie par les services de vulgarisation n'ayant pas suivi, et I'inscurit6
ayant perdure, la production est restee stagnante et la qualite de la matiere premiere s'est
deterioree. De meme, le renforcement des capacites nationales n'a pas et satisfaisant a
cause de l'insecurite, de l'instabilite des chercheurs et du retrait precipite de l'AT expatri6e.
Volet formation
L'identification des besoins en formation et I'elaboration d'un programme ad hoc ont
ete confiees a une association de bureauix d'ingenieurs-conseils. Cette dernire en a
aussi partieilement assure le suivi et 1'evaluation.



v
Les activites de formation ont et executees a un rythme soutenu avant d'etre perturbe
par la crise d'Octobre 1993. Depuis lors, la quasi totaLite du budget a ete absorbee par
les formations a l'exterieur, avec pour consequence le rencherissement des couts.
Les programmnes de formation ont ete bien apprecies par les beneficiaires. Leurs effets
positifs sont observes surtout dans les domaines de la maintenance industrielle (laquelIe
doit neanmoins etre renforcee a la SODECO), de la gestion des encheres et de
l'informatique. La formation n'a pas toujours ete accompagnee de mesures visant a
stabiliser le personnel, afin de tirer profit des investissements consentis.
Conclusion
Le PFC aura atteint des resultats importants, en particulier dans le cadre des reformes
institutionnelles. Ces resultats restent cependant inacheves. En effet, 1'environnement
reglementaire reste encore rigide, constituant autant de freins au developpement des
entreprises existantes et de barrieres d'entree pour de nouvelles initiatives. Aussi, les
prix et les marges restent admninistres a la fin du projet, ce qui n'est pas de nature a
stimuler, parmi les entreprises de la filiere, l'initiative, la concurrence et l'efficience
6conomique. Les entreprises issues de la reforme ne sont donc pas durables a long
termne. Ces memes entreprises n'6tant pas proprietaires des equipements qu'elles
utilisent, il n'y a pas aucune garantie pour que ceux-la scient remplaces au moment
voulu.
La vente aux encheres et la competence acquise par la formation semblent etre
durables a long terTne. Afin d'accroltre les chances de durabilite, des recommandations
sont donnres a la fin des chapitres relatifs a chaque composante.
Les le,ons pouvant etre tirees du projet sont les suivantes: I) la preparation d'un
projet par des groupes multisectoriels de rfilexion est certes longue, mais efle perTnet
une bonne appropriation et facilite le demarra8e; 2) un changement de gouvernement
est favorable a i'emer;,ence de nouvelles politiques, mais celles-ci requierent pour leur
rise en oeuvre un environnement socio-politique stable, 3) un office public, meme
appeIl  a se transformer, tend a resister a la perte de ses prerogatives et A trop
privilgier les interets de l'Etat par opposition a ceux des autres partenaires; 4) les
regles du marche permettent une meilleure efficience et des prix plus eleves aux
producteurs que les prix et les marges administres, 5) le secteur prive est moins
reticent qu'on ne le croit a investir dans des secteurs anciennement r6serv6s a I'Etat,
une fois ces secteurs liberalises; 6) les transformations structurelles sont plus faciles a
realiser que le changement de mentalite necessaire pour les faire bien fonctionner.



MAP SECTION






29~                                                                 3O                                                             /
BURUNDI
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
COFFEE WASHING STATIONS
*   EXISTING WASHING STATIONS
COFFEE GROWING AREAS:                                               RWANDA            !
_   HIGH POTENTIAL
MEDIUM POTENTIAL
0   LOW POTENTIAL                .j'
NO POTENTIAL                                ,
MAJOR ROADS                 **\             '
@) PROVINCE CAPiTALS \  4 ' t  ,  t .')i '.SQi\.o:, Gd.ronyi
(D  NATIONAL CAPITAL           '-:$'t.S{t 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES    ..L. .           m                g
COMMUNE BOU1NDARIES    t: :^          2                o  
TANZANIA
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ZAIRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TNAI
0  29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       To Ki~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,no ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    i.iy






29                                                                             0 
BURUNDI                                                                                                     /
COFFEE SECTOR PROJECT
SOGESTAL AREAS
LII]SOGESTAL MUYINGA-KIRUNDO                                                                                1.
SOGESTAL NGOZI                                                                  RWANDA
SOGESTAL KAYANZA
SOGESTAL MUMIRWA
SOGESTAL KIRIMIRO                 ,    .'.                   .k                                    -'
*    EXISTING WASHING STATIONS                                     .
-     MAJOR ROADS                          \            ,                  G,.ronyl /
i NATIONAL CAPITAL  --.  (j
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES i.7; g* <
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES ' .......'- -  ..........., //
0 -,- ~~~NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES T       
I  \  \  >  .-.// g r- / ........................... .--- > P
~~~s,,                      *      * ~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
R.KiM                                                 r7
-3'
ZAIRE   /         )  ~BU ANZA         * Boo
ZAIRE                        M,--, pENYA
ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~~jt
CANKU~~~~~~~~>IDA
T.            !                                           3t  '-
( \ Motono; / MvsoGo;/ | ICILOMETER
} i \ ~Ut / Mpmg-oyowe 1' l 20 4
4  \ \ Son~~9.go   ;} /Xihr  I52
6 tok 8 RJoJ /\ RUTlA/M.
f   r    \-R   MoNGEXR.F          .                  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yiy
5 \ St t ~ ==t=( BukMg.b.  
(  ;  +  <  Vyond ) rt '. g - ^- v . .. - . . .d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOMTER
s   I X   \   S    l  ,.'S  -  "^-I;.-Le^^Wt             ,/                       t.      d0 20                4
1  /   j   \   \\  8  ,  -"--  ge.g_  *  - (>   Koyogo,O   /                    pv   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
9 I ; + i_ / 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGAND~A/
)  !   ,   \   \,v'  W  7   |           |     \   j                        Z~~~~~~~~AIREgp    ~            KENYA
I   X   |   |          \     7        >       rbO O  /                                 bRTA N Z A N IA
6 T ' g t j\ i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA   _
_ 29                                                                            1  .Kioo30                                          









IMAGING
Report No.:           16590
Type:      ICR



