Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2123 BU
(Coffee Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
Dated April 20, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2123 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1990, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the "Association") and the BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI ("BRB").
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (the Development Credit Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Burundi (the "Borrower") and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,300,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BRB agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement will be carried out by BRB with the Borrower's assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to BRB part of the 
proceeds of the Credit under an agreement (the "Management Agreement") to be entered 
into between the Borrower and BRB; and
WHEREAS BRB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Page  2
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement including the Preamble thereto, the Preamble to 
this  Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the
Apex Project Management Unit
Section 2.01. (a) BRB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, in 
accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and 
experienced management and in accordance with the Statutes.
(b)
For the purposes of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project BRB shall: (i) 
maintain the Apex Project Management Unit with the management and staff and under the 
terms of reference set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) allocate from the interest it receives from the 
Participating Financial Intermediaries under the Participation Agreements, amounts 
equal to one half of one percent (1/2%) per annum of the principal amount outstanding 
under such Participation Agreements to cover the Apex Project Management Unit's costs 
and expenses related to the Project.
Section 2.02. BRB shall:
(a)
enter into Participation Agreements with Participating Financial 
Intermediaries under which the Franc Burundais equivalent of proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn under Categories (1) (b) and (3) (b) of the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be lent to such Participating Financial 
Intermediaries for relending in the form of Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises to 
finance Investment Projects; such Participation Agreements shall be satisfactory to 
the Association and shall provide that Sub-loans be made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
charge the Participating Financial Intermediaries under the Participating 
Agreements an interest rate established in accordance with Section 3.10 (a) (ii) and 
(d) of the Development
Credit Agreement;
(c)
require that loans to Participating Financial Intermediaries under the 
Participation Agreements shall have the same amortization period as the Sub-loans made 
using the proceeds of such loans; and
(d)
exercise its rights in relation to each Participation Agreement in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and BRB; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Management Agreement; and 
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. BRB shall ensure compliance with obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project.
Section 2.04. BRB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Management 
Page  3
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BRB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Management Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BRB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under
this Agreement and the Management Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BRB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BRB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and the Management Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BRB shall maintain procedures, records and accounts adequate 
to monitor and record the progress of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project and of each 
Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to 
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, its 
operations and financial condition in respect of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project.
(b)
BRB shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, BRB shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Page  4
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BRB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BRB of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank of the Republic of Burundi:
Banque de la Republique du Burundi
B.P. 705
Bujumbura,
Republic of Burundi
Telex:
5071 BRB BDI
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BRB or by BRB 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of BRB, or by such other person or persons as such Governor 
shall designate in writing, and BRB shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Page  5
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU BURUNDI
By /s/ Julien Kavakure
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Apex Project Management Unit
Staff
1.
Project Analyst (Unit Chief).
 
2.
Accountant/Financial Analyst.
 
3.
Appropriate support staff.
 
Functions
1.
Provide guidance to Participating Financing Intermediaries  in selecting 
eligible Private Investment Projects.
2.
Ensure application of appropriate standards for appraisal of Investment 
Projects.
3.
Review the eligibility of, and authorize financing for, Investment Projects 
submitted by Participating Financial Intermediaries. For Sub-loans of less than 
$80,000 equivalent, check
whether the requests meet the eligibility criteria and give approval within five (5) 
working days from submission. For Sub-loans of or above $80,000 equivalent, review the 
requests in more detail, give comments on the quality of appraisal to the 
Participating Financing Intermediary concerned and check the eligibility for 
refinancing of the requests within ten (10) working days from submission.
4.
Ensure proper disbursement of proceeds of the Credit, and supervise and 
centralize the collection and forwarding of supporting documentation.
5.
Supervise the Participating Financial Intermediaries' compliance with their 
obligations under the Participation Agreements.
6.
Supervise, on a sample basis and/or focusing on problem cases, the Investment 
Projects.
Page  6
7.
Ensure liaison between the Association and the Participating Financial 
Intermediaries on matters related to the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
Participating Financial Intermediaries shall relend the Franc Burundais 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit lent to them by BRB to Private Investment 
Enterprises for Investment Projects, for terms of two (2) to ten (10) years. The 
Sub-loans may include periods of grace of up to three (3) years, and shall include 
rates of interest which may be subject to change pursuant to Section 3.10 (d) of the 
Development Credit Agreement.
2.
The interest rate to be charged by Participating Financial Intermediaries to 
Private Investment Enterprises under Sub-loans shall be based on prevailing market 
rates and negotiated between the Participating Financial Intermediaries and the 
Private Investment Enterprises.
3.
Private Investment Enterprises shall be assessed for eligibility for Sub-loans 
based on consistently applied technical, criteria generally accepted in the Borrower's 
coffee industry, and
sound economic and financial criteria.
4.
Unless the Borrower and the Association otherwise agree, Sub-loans investment 
may not exceed a total equivalent to $210,000.
5.
Unless the Borrower and the Association otherwise agree, Participating Financial 
Intermediaries may apply the proceeds of loans under the Participation Agreements and 
their own resources to finance not more than 70% and 20%, respectively, of the cost of 
Investment Projects provided, however, that the contribution of the Private Investment 
Enterprise is not less than 30% in each case.
6.
No Sub-loan granted by any Participating Financial Intermediary shall be 
eligible for refinancing by BRB out of the proceeds of the Credit without the prior 
verification of the Apex Project Management Unit as to its eligibility and without the 
approval of the Association; once two Sub-loans for each Participating Financial 
Intermediary shall have been so approved, however, the approval of the Association 
shall no longer be required for the subsequent Sub-loans granted by such Participating 
Financial Intermediary.
7.
When presenting a Sub-loan to the Association for approval, the relevant 
Participating Financial Intermediary and BRB shall furnish to the Association an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description 
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Sub-loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan including its 
schedule of amortization; and (iii) such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
8.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Financial 
Intermediary concerned shall obtain, by written contract with the Private Investment 
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Association, BRB and the Participating Financial Intermediary 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out the Investment Project and 
operate the coffee washing station constructed with due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and environmental standards 
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively for the Investment Project and the operation and maintenance of the coffee 
washing stations financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
Page  7
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Apex Project 
Management Unit, or jointly with the Association, or jointly with both, as the case 
may be, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, 
the operation of the coffee washing stations financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Private Investment Enterprise take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Private Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such 
goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, the Participating 
Financial Intermediary or the Apex Project Management Unit, as the case may be, shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Private Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Private Investment Enterprise to 
the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Private Investment 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Participating 
Financial Intermediary concerned.
