CREDIT NUMBER 2123 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Coffee Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2123 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            eo C     , 1990,
between the REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
March 2, 1990, from the Borrower describing a series of actions
designed to achieve certain policy objectives in the Borrower's
coffee sector (the Plan of Action) and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the carrying out of the Plan of Action.
(B)   the Borrower, having satisfied     itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C)   Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by
the Banque de la R6publique du Burundi (BRB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to BRB part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided for
in this Agreement under an agreement (the Management Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and BRB;
(D)   the Borrower   intends to contract from the Caisse
Centrale de Coop6ration Economigue (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Loan) in
an  amount   equivalent  to   six  million  dollars   ($6,000,000)
approximately to assist in financing Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and D
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and CCCE;
(E)   the Borrower has contracted from the Fonds d'Aide et de
C92ooration (FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) in an amount equivalent
to one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to assist
in financing Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the FAC Grant Agreement) dated September 27,
1989, between the Borrower and FAC;
(F)   the Borrower has contracted from the Centre de Coop6-
ation Internationale pour la Recherche Agricole et le D6velopRement
(CIRAD) a grant (the CIRAD Grant) in an amount equivalent to four
hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars ($425,000) to assist in
financing Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth  in   an  agreement   (the  CIRAD  Grant  Agreement)   dated
September 27, 1989, between the Borrower and CIRAD;


﻿-2-
(G)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
Belgium (Belgium) a grant (the Belgian Grant) in an amount
equivalent to nine hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($950,000) to
assist in financing Part B.1 (b) of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Belgian Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and Belgium; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BRB" means Bangue de la R4publique du Burundi, the
Borrower's Central Bank;
(b)   "Statutes" means the statutes dated January 3, 1976,
establishing BRB, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)   "RDCs"  means   the  Regional  Development   Companies
established by the Borrower's loi-d6cret No. 1/17 of June 15, 1979;
(d)   "ISABU" means Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du
Burundi, the Borrower's agricultural research institute;
(e)   "OCIBU" means the Borrower's coffee processing and
regulatory body;
(f)   "BCC" means Burundi Coffee Company, the Borrower's
coffee marketing agency;


﻿-3-
(g)   "Implementation Unit" means the unit to be established
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(h)   "Private Auction   Facility" means the unit to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.06 (c) of this
Agreement to auction coffee to private exporters;
(i)   "Preparation Committee" means the Comit6 de Pr6paration
pour l'Introduction d'une Fili&re Priv6e de Commercialisation du
Caf6, established by the Borrower to undertake a study in order to
make recommendations to the Borrower concerning the establishment
of the Private Auction Facility;
(j)   "Office du Caf6" means-the coffee industry regulatory
body to be established under Part A.1 of the Project;
(k)   "SOGESTALs" means Soci6t6s de Gestion de Stations de
Lavage, autonomous companies with share capital open to ownership
by private investors to be established under Part A.2 of the Project
to operate and manage the Borrower's coffee washing stations;
(1)   "SODECO" means Soci6t6 de D6parchage et de Condition-
nement, an autonomous company with share capital open to ownership
by private investors to be established under Part A.3 of the Project
to operate and manage the Borrower's coffee hulling factories;
(m) "Private Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise
which has been appraised, in accordance with Paragraph 3 of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement, as being eligible for Sub-loans and to
or for which a Participating Financial Intermediary (as hereinafter
defined) has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan;
(n)   "Investment Project" means dhe construction of a new
washing station or the acquisition of equipment and tools for such
new washing station by a Private Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(o)   "Participating Financial Intermediary" and "PFI" mean
a commercial or development bank or credit institution acceptable
to the Association to which BRB under a Participating Agreement with
such bank or institution, has lent proceeds of the Credit for
relending to Private Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects;
(p)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BRB of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿4-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(q)   "Management Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in Section 3.10 (a) of this Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BRB, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Management Agreement;
(r)   "Participation Agreement" means an agreement entered
into or to be entered into between BRB and a Participating Financial
Intermediary as set out in Section 3.10 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(s)   "Apex Project Management Unit" means the unit estab-
blished and maintained within BRB pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of
the Project Agreement dated June 8, 1988 between the Association
and BRB in respect of the Small Enterprise/Apex Project (Credit No.
1889 BU);
(t)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Financial Intermediary to a Private Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to such Participating
Financial Intermediary by BRB;
(u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(v)   "Project Account" means the account to be opened
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(w)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
which runs concurrently with the calendar year;
(x)   "Franc Burundais" and "FBu" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
(y)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated September 20, 1989 and January 2, 1990 between the
Borrower and the Association.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 21,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for- expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank acceptable
to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the autnorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿- 6 -
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall
be applied from the next paJment date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, -he
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1, com-
mencing commencing June 1, 2000 and ending December 1, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿- 7 -
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of t1-e increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the pureu6es of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit;
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(a)   shall cause BRB to carry out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the
Project and to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of BRB therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BRB to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance; and
(b)   shall carry out Parts A, B, C.3, D.1, D.2 and E of the
Project through OCIBU/Office du Caf6 and Part D.3 of the Project
through ISABU, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative and environ-
mental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such parts of
the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of tne goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project:
(a)   open and maintain in FBu in the name of OCIBU/0ffice du
Caf6 an account (the Project Account) in a bank acceptable to the
Association on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
(b)   deposit into the Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to thirty-five million Francs Burundais (FBu 35,000,000)
in constant 1990 Franc Burundais;
(c)   thereafter deposit into the Project Account not later
than March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 in each year
during Project implementation, the amount necessary to replenish the
Project Account to the initial amount referred to in the preceding
sub-paragraph; and
(d)   ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account
pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make
payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services for Parts A, B, D and E of the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain with a structure satisfactory to the Association, including
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, a unit (the
Implementation Unit) to coordinate the implementation of Part B of
the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause BCC to:
(a)   adopt and maintain competitive employment terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association for its staff; and
(b)   thereafter,  establish  and   maintain  a   marketing
department headed by a marketing manager appointed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   furnish to the Association for its review and comments
a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have requested on the study of the Preparation Committee regarding
the establishment and operation of the Private Auction Facility
including the recommendations resulting therefrom;
(b)   not later than three months thereafter, exchange views
with the Association on such recommendations; and
(c)   promptly after such exchange of views and, in any event,
not later than December 31, 1990, establish and thereafter operate
the Private Auction Facility in accordance with the recommendations
acceptable to the Association of the Preparation Committee.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1992:
(a)   jointly review with the Association: (i) the imple-
mentation of the Project and the Plan of Action; and (ii) the
performance of the Private Auction Facility and of the BCC with a
view to determining any adjustments to be made to their respective
functions, procedures or structures; and
(b)   undertake to implement, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, the recommendations acceptable to the Association of
the joint review.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)   by October 31, 1990, furnish to the Association a report
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
requested on the study described under Part A.5 of the Project
including the recommendations resulting therefrom;
(b)   promptly thereafter exchange views with the Association
on such recommendations; and
(c)   promptly after the exchange of views referred to in the
preceding paragraph and, in any event, not later than February 28,
1991, implement a new coffee pricing and payment system in
accordance with the recommendations acceptable to the Association
of the said study.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.09. For the purpose of Part B.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall carry out a feasibility study to determine the
location of each coffee washing station to be constructed thereunder
based on technical, financial and economic criteria acceptable to
the Association prior to commencing construction of such station.
Section 3.10. (a) For the purposes of Pq%ts C.1 and C.2 of
the Project, the Borrower shall onlend to BRB the portion of the
Credit withdrawn under Categories 1 (b) and 3 (b) in the table in
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under an agreement (the
Management Agreement) which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include the following terms and
conditions:
(i)   that the interest rate to be charged to BRB shall
be one-half of one percent (1/2%) below the
Government Security Rate, the principal amount of
the Credit onlent to BRB being repaid to the
Borrower in equal annual installments beginning
ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement
and ending thirty (30) years after the date of
this Agreement;
(ii)   that BRB shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit
received under the Management Agreement to
Participating Financial Intermediaries under the
terms and conditions of the Participation
Agreement at an interest rate equal to the
Government Security Rate, and an amortization
period equal to the amortization period of the
Sub-loans made using the proceeds thereof; and
(iii)   that the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by
the Borrower.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section, "Government Security"
means the debt obligation (Certificat du Tr6sor) having the longest
available maturity among those publicly issued by the Borrower and
"Government Security Rate" means the interest rate payable on such
security.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Management Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of


﻿- 11 -
the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Management Agreement or
any provision thereof.
(d)   During the execution of the Project, the Borrower and
the Association shall review the onlending arrangements to determine
whether they are adequate to reflect the economic cost of capital
and to compensate the Borrower for the foreign exchange risk
referred to in Section 3.10 (a) (iii) above and the Borrower shall
promptly adjust the interest rates referred to in Section 3.10 (a)
(i) and (ii) above if they are found inadequate by the Association
after any such review.
Section 3.11. The Borrower -shall, by December 31, 1990,
appoint, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(a)   a management and finance specialist acceptable to the
Association to provide the technical assistance to the SOGESTALS
described under Part A.2 of the Project; and
(b)   a training specialist satisfactory to the Association
to coordinate Part E of the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1991, establish
within the Office du Caf6 a private sector promotion committee under
terms of reference and having a work program, agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.13. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that compliance with the obligations set forth in Section 9.03,
9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, and maintenance respectively) in respect of Parts C.1
and C.2 of the Project shall be ensured by BRB, pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of ISABU, SODECO, the


﻿-  12  -
SOGESTALs and any other agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such Year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)


﻿- 13 -
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such Fiscal Year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTILE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BRB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Management Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that BRB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Management Agreement.
(c)   The Statutes shall have been     amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial conditKon of BRB or its
ability to carry out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project or to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BRB or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   The implementation of the Plan of Action shall have been
suspended or terminated or shall have materially deviated from such
Plan of Action as defined in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this
Agreement.
(f)   The CCCE Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1990, or such later date as the
Association may agree, provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and


﻿- 14 -
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of *the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable  prior  to  the  agreed  maturity
thereof;
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(B)   adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)   any of the events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and


﻿- 15 -
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association a report
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association in such detail
and of such scope as the Association shall have reasonably requested
of the audit of OCIBU's accounts for Fiscal Year 1989;
(b)   the Borrower and BRB have entered into the Management
Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower and Belgium have entered into the Belgian
Grant Agreement;
(d)   the Borrower has employed consultants in accordance with
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to carry out Part A.5 of
the Project;
(e)   the Borrower has complied with Sections 3.03 (b), 3.05
and 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; and
(f)   the Borrower has appointed to ISABU a coordinator
acceptable  to   the  Association  under  terms  and   conditions
satisfactory to the Association to coordinate coffee research.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BRB and is legally binding upon BRB in accordance with
its terms; and


﻿- 16 -
(b)   that the Management Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BRB in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Pgreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minist6re de l'Agriculture et de 1'Elevage
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Minist6re de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
B.P. 1850
Bujumbura
R6publique du Burundi
Cable address:              Telex:
MINAGRI                    5147 MINAGRI, BDI
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized rep'-sentatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their resp,ctive names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By   /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
',   Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Construction of     10,690,000
coffee washing
stations
(a)   civil works                        100% of foreign
under Part B.l(a)                  expenditures
of the Project                     and 80% of
local ;xpendi-
tures
(b)   civil works                        100% of proceeds
financed under                     of amounts
Sub-loans                          onlent by BRB
to PFI
(2)   Civil works            150,000           100% of foreign
under Parts B.l(c)                       expenditures and
and D.2 of the                           80% of local
Project                                  expenditures


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)   Machinery and        3,030,000
tools for coffee
washing stations
(a)   under Part B.2 (a)                 100% of foreign
of the Project                     expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(b)   goods financed                     100% of proceeGs
under Sub-                         of amounts on-
loans                              lent by BRB to
PFI
(4)   Furniture and            80,000          100% of foreign
equipment under                          expenditures and
Part B.2 (b) of                          80% of local
the Project                              expenditures
(5)   Furniture,               80,000          100% of foreign
equipment and                            expenditures and
materials under                          80% of local
Part D.3 of the                          expenditures
Project
(6)   Vehicles                950,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(7)   Technical             1,060,000          100%
assistance
(8)   Training              1,060,000          100%


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(9)   (a)   Incremental       910,000          100% of ex-
operating                          penditures
costs of                           paid through
ISABU                              December 31,
1992; 80% of
expenditures
paid through
December 31,
1993; 50% of
expenditures
paid through
Decerber 31,
1994; there-
after 20%
(b)   Incremental       150,000          100% of foreign
operating costs                    expenditures and
of the Office                      60% of local
du Caf6                            expenditures
(c)   Incremental     1,210,000          100% of foreign
operating costs                    expenditures
of the SOGESTALs                   and 60% of local
expenditures
(10) Refunding of             490,000          Amount due
Project Prepara-                         pursuant to
tion Advance                             Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(11) Unallocated            1,440,000
TOTAL                  21,300,000


﻿- 21 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "incremental operating costs of ISABU" means
the cost to ISABU incremental to the Project of staff salaries and
other labor costs, office supplies and maintenance, research inputs,
vehicle operation, office and equipment rental and staff travel;
(d)   the term "incremental operating costs of the Office du
Cafg" means the cost to the Office du Caf6 incremental to the
Project of staff salaries, office supplies, vehicle operation,
equipment and office rental and staff travel; and
(e)   the term "Incremental operating costs of the SOGESTALs"
means the cost to the SOGESTALs incremental to the Project of staff
salaries, office supplies, vehicle operation, equipment and office
rental and staff travel.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   Categories (1) (b) and (3) (b) unless:
(i)   the relevant Participation Agreement has been
entered into by BRB and the Participating
Financial Intermediary concerned and is satis-
factory to the Association; and
(ii)   the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the efficiency
and productivity of the Borrower's coffee industry, open it to
private investors and augment the value of the Borrower's coffee
exports by increasing the share of wet processed (fully-washed)
coffee in such exports.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Reforms.
1.    Establishment of, and provision of technical assistance to,
the Office du Caf6.
2.    Establishment of five SOGESTALs and provision of technical
assistance to such SOGESTALs in the operation and management of the
Borrower's coffee washing stations.
3.    Establishment of SODECO and provision of technical assistance
to SODECO in the operation and management of the Borrower's coffee
hulling factories.
4.    Provision of technical assistance to the Preparation Committee
and BCC and establishment and operation of and, provision of
technical assistance to, the Private Auction Facility.
5.    Carrying out of a study to develop a new coffee pricing and
payment system.
Part B:     Investments
1.    Construction of:
(a)   coffee washing stations;
(b)   about 300 kilometers of access roads to such coffee
washing stations and to those constructed by virtue of the financing
described under Part C.1 of the Project; and
(c)   offices for use by the SOGESTALs.


﻿- 23 -
2.    Acquisition of:
(a)   machinery and tools for washing stations constructed
under Part B.1 (a) of the Project;
(b)   office equipment and furniture and vehicles for use by
the Office du Caf6 and the SOGESTALs.
Part C:     Credit to Private Investment Enterprises
1.    Financing, through  loans granted to Private Investment
Enterprises by Participating Financial Intermediaries using the
proceeds of the Credit onlent to such Participating Financial
Intermediaries by BRB, of construction of new washing stations.
2.    Financing, through  loans granted to Private Investment
Enterprises by Participating Financial Intermediaries using the
proceeds of the Credit onlent to such Participating Financial
Intermediaries by BRB, of the acquisition of equipment and tools
for use in washing stations constructed or to be constructed by such
Private Investment Enterprises using the financing described in the
preceding paragraph.
3.    Provision of technical assistance to Private Investment
Enterprises and potential Private Investment Enterprises in the
preparation of Investment Projects and the submission of Sub-loan
applications to Participating Financial Intermediaries.
Part D:     Strengthening of Coffee Research
1.    Construction of office buildings and laboratories;
2.    Acquisition of office equipment and furniture, research
materials and vehicles; and
3.    Carrying out of a comprehensive coffee research program
including conferences and symposia and training of staff of ISABU.
Part E:     Training
Carrying out of a coffee industry-wide training program.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1996.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and work,. shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Burundi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works under Part B.1 (a) of the Project and works to be
financed out of the proceeds of Sub-loans up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $14,500,000, works under Parts B.1 (c) and D.1 of the
Project up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000 and items
or groups of items for vehicles and equipment under Parts B.2 and
D.2 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or


﻿- 25 -
more but less than $100,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for vehicles and equipment under
Parts B.2 and D.2 of the Project and goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of Sub-loans estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of propoced awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required tc be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract,
(b)   With respe.t to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 26 -
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 28 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn   amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 29 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNA""IONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


