Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19962
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3462-CHA)
December 17, 1999
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$ 1.0  -  Y 5.38 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.0 - Y 8.30 (actual average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCB           -   China Construction Bank
CDB           -   Ch ina Development Bank
DER           -   Debt Equity Ratio
DSC           -   Debt Service Coverage Ratio
EIRR          -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESP           -   Electrostatic Precipitators
GOC           -   Government of China
MOF           -   Ministry of Finance
NWCEPDI    -   Northwest China Electric Power Design Institute
SAR           -    Staff Appraisal Report
SDPC          -   State Development and Planning Commission
SEIC          -   State Energy Investment Corporation
SEPGC         -   Shandong Electric Power Group Corporation
SFR           -   Self Financing Ratio
SIPDC         -    Shandong International Power Development Co. Ltd.
SPC           -   State Power Corporation
SPEPB         -   Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau
ROR           -   Rate of Return
Regional Vice President:      Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:             Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:              Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager:                 Elaine Sun, EACCF



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3462-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Zouxian Thermal
Power Project in China, for which Loan No. 3462-CHA, in the amount of US$ 310
million equivalent was approved on April 21, 1992 and made effective on October 23,
1992. The loan was closed on June 30, 1999 as originally scheduled. An undisbursed
balance of about US$9.0 million will be canceled upon closure of the loan account.
The ICR was prepared by Yuling Zhou (Operations Officer), EASEG; reviewed
by Elaine Sun (Principal Energy Specialist), Jianping Zhao (Energy Specialist), EACCF;
Barry Trembath (Principal Power Engineer), EASEG; and endorsed by Yoshihiko Sumi,
Sector Director, EASEG.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the ICR mission to China in March
1999. It is based on documents and material available in the project file, and on
information and comments received from the implementing agency and the beneficiary.
The Aide Memoire of the ICR mission is attached as Annex A. The Borrower's
evaluation report is attached as Annex B.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
Preface .......................................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................................i
Part I - Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                     .2
C.      Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project   . 5
D.  Project Sustainability .10
E. Bank Performance .11
F. Borrower Performance.                                                                   11
G. Assessment of Outcoe .12
H. Future Operations .12
I.  Key Lessons Learned .13
Part II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .20
Table 4: Loan Disbursemets .20
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .21
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operatio .22
Table 7:  Studies included in the Project .23
Table 8A:  Project Costs (Yuan million) ...................................................      24
Table 8B:  Project Costs (US$ million) ...................................................       25
Table 8C:  Project Financing ................................................... 25
Table 9:    Economic Costs &  Benefits (EIRR) ................................................... 26
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................        27
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................ 28
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................     28
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions ....................             ............................... 29
Annexes
Annex A:  Mission's Aide Memoire .................                 ................................. 31
Annex B:  Borrower's Evaluation Report ..................................................         35
Annex C:   Ex-post Calculation of Economic Intemal Rate of Return .......... ......... 3 8
Annex D:   SPEPB's Financial Statements
and SIPDC's Key Financial Indicators ................................................. 39
Map
IBRD No. 22046
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- j -
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3462-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Zouxian Thermal Power Plant is located about 175 km south of Jinan, the
capital city of Shandong Province. It is on average 15 km away from Yanzhou Coal
Mine, one of the largest coal mines in the province. Before the Bank financed project,
the Power Plant had installed capacity of 1200 (4x300) MW. Shandong is one of the
most populous and fastest growing provinces in China.  At the time of project
identification and appraisal, there was an acute shortage of power supply in the province.
The expansion of generating capacity in Shandong is virtually entirely based on thermal
power stations as it is short of hydroelectric resources.
Project Objectives
2.    The Zouxian Thermal Power Project was designed to help alleviate the acute
power shortage in Shandong and meet the province's projected power demand. In
addition, it was also used as a vehicle to: (a) support national policies for developing
large mine-mouth thermal power generating units to make effective use of China's
abundant coal resources; (b) continue the efforts to introduce modem technology in plant
design and project management for 600 MW thermal power units; (c) provide technical
assistance to strengthen Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau (SPEPB)'s
environmental planning for thermal power stations and to restructure power tariffs; and
(d) upgrade SPEPB's capabilities in financial management and in the operation and
maintenance of thermal power plants.
3.    The project provided financing for: (a) addition of two 600 MW  coal-fired
thermal units to the existing Zouxian Thermal Power Plant; (b) construction of associated
500kV and 220kV transmission lines and substations to feed power into the grid; (c)
provision of technical assistance for engineering, procurement and construction
management; (c) studies on air pollution control for coal-fired power plant development
in the coastal areas of China, as well as on tariff reform; (d) training; and (e) monitoring
for environmental protection.
4.    The design of the project responded to the country's regional and sectoral
objectives at the time of appraisal. The project objectives were consistent with the
Government's strategy to build coal-fired thermal power plant at mine-mouth for efficient
deployment of energy resources and the Bank's county assistance goals regarding
introduction of appropriate modem technology and utility management practice,
institutional building, tariff reform, and environmental protection.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Physical Implementation. The project was completed successfully. The two
coal-fired 600 MW units (Units #5 and #6) and the associated transmission facilities were
put into commercial operation in line with the original schedule. By the end of 1998, the
two units have generated 9,709 GWh of electricity. Since the first half of 1998, power
supply in Shandong has satisfied the demand. Therefore, the project's main objective to
alleviate power shortages has been successfully achieved.
6.    The two units are among the largest in China in terms of unit capacity. With the
modern technology and management practice introduced, both units were awarded as
outstanding projects by the State Power Corporation (SPC), the top authority in China for
power sector operations. Unit #5 was the first 600 MW unit in China to meet the highest
level national standards and performance indicators upon commercial operation. Because
of the success of Unit #5, Unit #6 was granted exemption from state-level inspection. In
addition, the two units were manufactured by a joint venture of a foreign supplier and a
local manufacturer with the foreign supplier taking full responsibility for quality and
performance guarantee. This arrangement has certainly facilitated technology transfer
and promoted development of local manufacturing capacities for 600 MW units, as
evidenced by the high quality of the two units under the project and the enhanced
manufacturing capabilities of the local partner. In view of the above and the fact that the
power plant is on average 15 km away from its source of coal supply, the associated
project objectives of supporting national policies for developing large mine-mouth
thermal power generating units to make effective use of China's abundant coal resources
and continuing efforts to introduce the modern technology in plant design and project
management for 600 MW thermal power units have been achieved.
7.    Institutional Development. A special study on air pollution control was
conducted and achieved its main objective of establishing criteria for power plant siting
in China's coastal areas based upon air quality impacts. SPEPB management honored
their environmental commitments in a professional manner. In recent years, they have
taken various actions and achieved good results: (a) large scale investment was made to
renovate outdated boilers by replacing the old precipitators with high efficient ESPs and
some old thermal power plants were closed. As a result, flue gas ash volume decreased
substantially despite the increase of coal consumption; (b) since 1997, all power plants
have met the waste water discharge standards. In addition, waste water recycling
facilities were installed in many plants and some plants even achieved "zero discharge",
leading to substantial benefits from water savings; and (c) R&D in flue gas
desulfurization technology would also result in potential benefits.
8.    In line with the project design, training programs were carried out both in China
and abroad with emphasis on training of high level staff in utility management and
financial planning. Technical staff members were also extensively trained to further
enhance SPEPB's traditionally sound technical performance. Training programs were
also provided for technical school teachers and environmental staff. The actual training



jj -
taken place greatly surpassed the SAR targets. While it is difficult to quantify the
impacts of the training programs on the SPEPB's performance, there are encouraging
signs that SPEPB is benefiting from them. The Bank has noticed an increasing awareness
of the importance of efficiency and customer services among SPEPB's management and
staff.
9.    Tariff Reforms.    The tariff reform action plan, developed as a result of the
tariff study financed under the project, has been implemented satisfactorily despite some
delays and led to the following improvements: (a) unified tariff has been applied to all the
consumers in the province; (b) time-of-day pricing was applied to all eligible consumers
in the province by the end of 1996; and (c) average tariff level has been substantially
increased while cross subsidies have been greatly reduced.
10.   Environment Impact.  The project was designed to meet environmental
standards as set in Chinese regulations and the Bank guidelines and to provide for
constant monitoring of the discharge, ambient and ash disposal areas.  All the
environmental related activities included in the SAR (special studies, training, purchase
of monitoring equipment, and monitoring programs) have been completed, either met or
exceeded the SAR requirements. The two units' ESP efficiency has reached the targeted
99.6 percent.
11.   Project Cost. Compared to the appraisal cost estimates, there is an overall cost
overrun of 2.7 percent when expressed in US dollar terms. Despite a foreign cost saving
of 19.1 percent, the local cost (expressed in local currency) increased by almost 76.6
percent. Several factors contributed to this cost change: (a) substantial depreciation of the
local currency (5.38 Yuan/US$ at the appraisal vs. average 8.30 Yuan/US$ actual); (b)
local cost increase due to much higher-than-expected local inflation rates; and (c) the
appraisal assumed full exemption from import duties and taxes, but import duties and
value-added-tax were actually paid during project construction beginning from 1996 as a
result of new Government tax regulations.
12.   Economic Performance.   The ex-post EIRR is 17 percent, higher than the
appraisal estimate of 14 percent, indicating the strong economic viability of the project.
13.   Bank Performance. Bank performance  from  project preparation  through
completion was satisfactory. The project was well appraised and risk assessments were
realistic. The Bank supervised the project on a regular basis, and caused SPEPB to revise
the project cost and implementation schedule from time to time based on actual situation.
The Bank also cautioned SPEPB about delays in the implementation of project
components in early stages, which ensured that the project was completed in a timely
manner. The Bank maintained good relations with the borrower, the beneficiary, the
implementing agency as well as the consultants.



- iv -
14.   Borrower performance.   Borrower performance was satisfactory.  SPEPB
and other relevant Chinese agencies have shown a strong commitment to fully implement
the project on schedule, at high quality and within budget. Various parties involved
cooperated closely to address problems encountered. Special task forces were set up in
connection with all major aspects of the project implementation such as procurement,
quality control, budget control, environmental control, safety, training, commissioning
and commercial operation preparation. They carefully studied lessons and experiences
learned from similar 600 MW units in both domestic and abroad thus prepared
themselves very well. They also paid great attention to training of their managers,
engineers and operators. As a result of all above, the two units were started and operated
successfully with all performance indicators achieved.
15.   Both SPEPB's and SIPDC's financial performance has been satisfactory
throughout the period of project implementation. They were in compliance with their
respective financial covenants with one exception: SPEPB's debt service coverage ratio
for 1996 and 1997 (about 1.2 times) was lower than the minimum required 1.4 times due
to high debt service requirements in these two years.
16.   Project Outcome.  The project outcome is rated satisfactory.  The main
development objectives were successfully achieved. The two generating units and the
transmission facilities financed under project were completed on schedule and have been
under satisfactory operation and maintenance. The studies on air pollution and tariff
reform were completed satisfactorily. The training program surpassed the appraisal
targets. The tariff reform action plan has been implemented with delays but substantial
progress has been made in rationalizing the tariff structure in the province.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
17.   The project was successfully completed and is sustainable. It is expected that the
Zouxian Thermal Power Plant will continue to be managed and operated efficiently and
effectively given the excellent operation performance it has already achieved and in view
of the institutional building-up in the course of the project implementation. The agreed
performance indicators are included in Table 6 of Part II, which set targets for future
operation in terms of plant utilization, efficiency and environmental protection.
18.   Key lessons learned from the project include: (a) the satisfactory implementation
of the project has provided another example that strong implementing agencies and their
ownership and commitment are key factors to a project's success; (b) procurement
packages should be carefully determined to minimize the amount of interfacing work
during implementation; (c) international consulting services are necessary but should be
carefully defined according to the actual needs and with flexibility; and (d) more attention
and guidance should be given by the Bank to policy related issues such as tariff reform,
especially at the initial stages, to ensure timely implementation of policy reforms in line
with the agreed framework.



- I -
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 3462-CHA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    The Zouxian Thennal Power Plant is located about 175 km south of Jinan, the
capital city of Shandong Province. Shandong is one of the most populous and fastest
growing provinces in China. At the time of project identification and appraisal, there was
an acute shortage of power supply in the province. The expansion of generating capacity
in Shandong is virtually entirely based on thermal power stations as it is short of
hydroelectric resources.
2.    The main objectives of the Project were to:
(a)   alleviate the acute power shortage in Shandong and meet the province's
projected power demand by 1997;
(b)   support national policies for developing large mine-mouth thermal power
generating units to make effective use of China's abundant coal resources;
(c)   continue efforts to introduce modern technology in plant design and
project management for 600 MW thermal power units;
(d)   provide technical assistance to strengthen Shandong Provincial Electric
Power Bureau (SPEPB)'s environmental planning for thermal power
stations and to restructure power tariffs; and
(e)   upgrade SPEPB's capabilities in financial management and in the
operation and maintenance of thermal power plants.
3.    To meet the above objectives, the project consisted of the following components:
(a)   the expansion of the existing Zouxian coal-fired thermal plant, by the
addition of two generating units of 600 MW each to reach an ultimate
capacity of 2,400 MW;
(b)   construction of associated 500kV and 220kV transmission lines and
substations to feed power into the grid;
(c)   construction management and provision of consulting services for
equipment procurement, coordination and interfacing of engineering and
design of different power plant islands, and review of suppliers' drawings;



- 2 -
(d)   provision of technical assistance for a study on air pollution control for
coal-fired power plant development in the coastal areas of China;
(e)   preparation of a tariff study and implementation of a phased, time-bound
action plan for improving the structuring of power tariff in the Shandong
power grid;
(f)   training program; and
(g)   a monitoring program for environmental protection.
4.    The objectives remained unchanged for the duration of the project. They were
clearly stated, for the most part, realistic, and consistent with the Government's strategy
to build coal-fired thermal power plant at mine-mouth for efficient deployment of
generation capacity and the Bank's county assistance goals regarding introduction of
appropriate modem technology, staff training, tariff reform, environmental protection and
modem utility management.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Alleviation of Power Shortages. The two coal-fired 600 MW units (Units #5
and #6) financed under the project commenced commercial operation in January and
November 1997 respectively. The construction of the associated transmission lines and
substations was completed in the samne year or earlier. By the end of 1998, the two units
have generated 9,709 GWh of electricity, which has made a valuable contribution to the
alleviation of the acute power shortage in Shandong Province. Since the first half of
1998, power supply in Shandong has, for the first time ever, satisfied the demand.
Therefore, the main objective of the project to alleviate power shortage has been
successfully achieved.
6.    Development of large mine-mouth thermal power plant and introduction of
modern technology. The two units, with unit capacity (600MW) among the largest in
China, and with modem technology and management practice introduced, were both
completed basically in line with the SAR schedule or over one year ahead of the schedule
set by the Chinese authorities. Unit #5 passed all inspections and was accepted by the
State Power Corporation (SPC), the top authority in China for power sector operation,
shortly after trial operation; it became the first 600 MW unit in China meeting the highest
level national standards and performance indicators upon commercial operation. Because
of the success of Unit #5, Unit #6 was granted exemption from state level inspection.
Both Units were awarded as outstanding projects by SPC. In addition, the two units were
manufactured by a joint venture of a foreign supplier and a local manufacturer with the
foreign supplier taking full responsibility for quality and performance guarantee. This
arrangement has certainly facilitated technology transfer and promoted development of
local manufacturing capacities for 600 MW units, as evidenced by the high quality of the
two units under the project and the enhanced manufacturing capabilities of the local



partner. In view of the above and the fact that the power plant is on average 15 km away
from its source of coal supply, the Yanzhou Coal Mine, the associated project objectives
of supporting national policies for developing large mine-mouth thermal power
generating units to make effective use of China's abundant coal resources and continuing
efforts to introduce modern technology in plant design and project management for 600
MW thermal power units have also been achieved.
7.     Environmental Impact.    The new generating Units #5 and #6 are equipped
with efficient environmental protection facilities. The ESPs reached efficiencies of 99.6
percent for both units, meeting the designed target. The ESP efficiencies for all four of
the older units have also reached 99.6 percent.
8.    In addition, advanced equipment and instruments are installed to monitor air
quality, water quality and noise levels. Upon completion of the two units, Shandong
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau inspected all the environmental related
facilities and also monitored the environmental situation in the plant and surrounding
areas. The inspection and monitoring results indicated that all the Chinese standards were
met and the Bank Guidelines were generally adhered to. The measurement records of
past years also show that the air and water quality meet the Chinese national standards,
except that the noise levels in a few spots exceed the standards by a small margin due to
noise produced by the water cooling tower. As no residents are located in the nearby
area, the slightly higher noise levels have not caused adverse environmental impact.
9.     Improvement of Tariff Structure. A tariff study was completed for SPEPB by a
national research institute in 1994. As a result of the study, a six-year tariff reform action
plan was developed and agreed between SPEPB and the Bank. The action plan consisted
of three phases, namely: (a) adopting time-of-day tariffs for all eligible consumers during
1995 and 1997; (b) further increasing basic tariffs during 1998 and 1999; and (c)
abolishing the traditional consumer classification and adopting new classification based
on voltage levels in 2000 and thereafter.
10.   Notwithstanding some delays in implementation, the tariff reform  action plan
played a catalyst role in the tariff reforms in Shandong Province as well as in other parts
of China'.   The tariff reforms implemented  so  far has resulted  in  substantial
improvements in Shandong's tariff structure: (a) unified tariff 2 has been applied to all the
consumers in the province; (b) time-of-day pricing was introduced in 1994 after approval
of the state authorities. As of 1996, all the eligible consumers (who have the potential to
benefit from load management) in the province have been charged the time-of-day
Largely due to the Bank focus on tariff reforms under the Zouxian Thermal Power Project as well as other Bank
financed power projects, the tariff reform has become a primary objective of the central Government agencies in
charge of power sector regulation.
2   Unified tariff means all consumers in the province under the same consumer category pay the same price for
kWh consumed.



- 4 -
tariffs3; and (c) average tariff level has been substantially increased while subsidies to the
traditionally heavily subsidized consumers (such as residential and agricultural) have
been greatly reduced. It is expected that the subsidies to residential consumers would be
fully removed in 2000.
11.   The average tariff excluding VAT was increased to 37.7 fen/kWh in 1997 (1998
tariff maintained the same level), which was 14.7 percent higher than the 1996 level or
45.7 percent higher than the 1992 level. While it is likely that the average tariff in 1999
would be maintained at the same level of 1998, the tariff structure would be further
adjusted with focus on increase of the residential tariff towards full removal of the
subsidies.
12.   Notwithstanding the above, there were deviations in the implementation of the
tariff reform action plan, such as: (a) to increase the kV or kVA charges (reduce the kWh
charges if necessary) to reflect relative capacity costs and energy costs; in fact, the kWh
charges were increased substantially, while the kV charges were kept unchanged, which
further distorted the tariff structure; and (b) to increase the difference in tariffs between
high and medium voltage to reflect network costs and energy losses; instead, the tariff
structure continued to be mainly based on consumer categories rather than on supply cost.
13.   Improvement of SPEPB's Performance.  A  special study on air pollution
control for coal-fired power plant development in the coastal areas of China was
conducted by Nanjing Environmental Protection Research Institute (NEPRI). This study
successfully met all of its objectives in: (a) establishing criteria for power plant siting in
China's coastal areas based upon air quality impacts; (b) establishing NEPRI as a center
for excellence in air quality modeling (physical and mathematical) as well as in testing
and evaluation of flue gas desulfurization schemes.
14.    SPEPB management honored their environmental commitments in a professional
manner. In recent years, they have taken various actions and achieved good results: (a) in
connection with air pollution control, large scale investment was made to renovate
outdated boilers by replacing the old precipitators with high efficient electrostatic
precipitators (ESPs). In the meantime, two old thermal power plants were closed. As a
result, though coal consumption in 1998 by all coal-fired power plants belonging to
SPEPB increased by 7.8 percent compared to that in 1995, the corresponding flue gas ash
volume decreased by 25.4 percent (or 6.8 tons); (b) regarding waste water control, all
power plants have met the waste water discharge standards since 1997; in addition, waste
water recycling facilities were installed in many plants and some plants even achieved
"zero discharge", leading to substantial benefits from water savings; and (c) on-going
R&D in flue gas desulfurization technology may also eventually result in environmental
benefits.
3   Time-of-day is divided into three periods: peak, shoulder and off peak. The price for the peak period is 1.5 times
of that for the shoulder period, while the price for the off peak period is 0.5 times of that for the shoulder period.



- 5 -
15.  In line with the project design, training programs were carried out both in China
and abroad with emphasis on training of high level staff in utility management and
financial planning. Technical staff members were also extensively trained to further
enhance SPEPB's traditionally sound technical performance. Training programs were
also provided for technical school teachers and environmental staff. The amount of
training that actually took place greatly surpassed the SAR targets. While it is difficult to
quantify the impacts of the training programs on the SPEPB's performance, there are
encouraging signs that SPEPB is benefiting from them. The Bank has noticed an
increasing awareness of the importance of efficiency and customer services among
SPEPB's management and staff. The borrower's own evaluation report explicitly
acknowledged that "it is the training that guaranteed the successful startup and trial
operation of the two units" (see the "Evaluation Report of Zouxian Thernal Power
Project from the Borrower" in Annex B).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.  Implementation Organization. The project was implemented during a period in
which the power sector in China has undergone substantial reforms, most of which are in
line with the recommendations made by the Bank. The reforms also affected the
institutional environment in which the project is embedded. SPEPB, the beneficiary of
the project and also the implementing agency, was a state-owned enterprise and vertically
integrated (generation, transmission and distribution) provincial power utility. SPEPB
was also assigned with sector regulatory function in the province. In the course of project
implementation, Shandong Electric Power Group Corporation (SEPGC) was formed from
SPEPB as a part of sector reform - separation of commercial enterprise from government
function. In 1997, the ownership of Zouxian Thermal Power Plant was transferred to the
Shandong International Power Development Corporation (SIPDC)4, a limited liability
company set up in 1994 to mainly engage in power generation. While SPEPB holds
majority of SIPDC's shares, the company is now also listed on the Hong Kong stock
exchange.
17.   Other main players in the project implementation included: the Northwest China
Electric Power Design Institute conducted the design and engineering work; Shandong
No. 1 Electric Power Construction Company undertook the construction work; Shandong
Electric Power Research and Commissioning Institute carried out the work of
commissioning and trial operation; and China National Technology Import & Export
Corporation was the main procurement agency. In addition, two firms (one foreign and
one local) provided consulting services.
4  The asset transfer was done with the Bank's concurrence. The legal agreements under the project were amended
accordingly.



-6 -
18.   Implementation Schedule. The issuance of bidding documents for the major
equipment started in March 1992 and the contracts were signed in February 1993. The
construction work for both units was commenced in November 1993 and completed in
October 1996. The trial operation started on November 14, 1996 for Unit #5 and on
October 1, 1997 for Unit #6, while commercial operation commenced on January 17,
1997 for Unit #5 and on November 5, 1997 for Unit #6.
19.   Compared to the SAR schedule, the commercial operation of Unit #5 started half
a month later, while Unit #6 started commercial operation almost two months earlier.
Compared to the schedule set by the Chinese authorities, the commercial operation for
Units #5 and #6 started one year and one and a half years earlier respectively.
20.   In addition to the two power generating units, the following transmission facilities
were also constructed under the project: 260 km of 500 kV transmission lines; 521.6 km
of 220 kV transmission lines; extension of one existing substation by adding one 500
MVA transformer; one new 500kV substation (750 MVA); and seven new substations
and five substation extensions with total incremental capacity of 1,800 MVA. The
reinforced transmission facilities either met or surpassed the SAR targets (Table 5).
21.   Procurement. As shown in the table below, the project included 76 procurement
contracts for equipment and materials financed under the Bank loan, of which 29 were
awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB), 30 through limited
international bidding (LIB) and 17 through international shopping. The total amount of
ICB procurement contracts was US$294.3 million, accounting for 98.1 percent of total,
while the amount of LIB and shopping contracts was US$5.7 million, accounting for only
1.9 percent of the total contract value. Procurement was carried out in accordance with
the Bank procurement guidelines as required under the legal agreements.
Method        Number of Contracts     Contract Value (US$ m)
Number       Percent      Amount       Percent
ICB            29           38.1        294.3         98.1
LIB            30           39.5          4.1          1.4
Shopping        17          22.4          1.6          0.5
Total          76          100.0        300.0        100.0
22.   Consulting Services and Training. Out of the Bank loan, an amount of US$1.9
million was spent on consulting services and training. Consulting services were provided
for: (a) engineering work, construction and implementation management; and (b) studies
on tariff reform and air pollution controls. Overall, the consultants fulfilled their terms of
reference and SPEPB was generally satisfactory with their performance and final
products. However, according to the implementing agencies, the foreign consultants did
not provide as much assistance as expected in project construction and commissioning
due to their insufficient experience in this area. The tariff reform action plan developed as



- 7 -
a part of the tariff studies was subsequently approved by the Chinese authorities and has
been implemented satisfactorily despite initial delays. The air pollution control study
achieved its main objective with established criteria for power plant siting in China's
coastal areas based upon air quality impacts.
23.   The training program focused on power utility management, financial planning
and management information systems, and technical and environmental related areas.
Training took place in both China and abroad. About 206 persons (7,803 person-days)
received training in the UK, Switzerland, Hong Kong, the USA, Japan and Australia. In
addition, about 312 technicians (22,701 person-days) received training in various training
centers, universities and power plants in China. The actual training conducted greatly
surpassed the SAR targets.
24.   Project Cost (excluding interest during construction).  The project appraisal
estimated a total project cost at US$795.0 million including US$373.5 million foreign
cost and Yuan 2,418.5 million (US$421.5 million equivalent at the exchange rate of
appraisal) local cost. The actual cost was US$816.7 million including US$302.2 million
foreign cost and Yuan 4,270.4 million (US$514.5 million equivalent based on the average
actual exchange rate) local cost. There is an overall cost overrun by about 2.7 percent
when expressed in US dollar terms. Despite a foreign cost saving of 19.1 percent, the
local cost (expressed in local currency) increased by almost 76.6 percent. The major
factors contributed to the cost change include: (a) depreciation of the local currency: the
exchange rate used at appraisal was 5.38 Yuan/US$, but the actual exchange rate during
project implementation period was on average 8.30 Yuan/US$; (b) local cost increase due
to much higher-than-expected local inflation rates 5; and (c) import duty and taxes: the
appraisal assumed full exemption from import duties and taxes, but import duties and
value-added-tax were actually paid during project construction as a result of new
Government tax regulations.
25.   At the Bank's suggestion, the project cost estimates were updated from time to
time during the period of project implementation in accordance with the situation changes
as mentioned above.
26.   Loan Disbursement. The loan disbursement was slower than estimated in the
initial years and caught up in the last few years of project implementation. A comparison
of the estimated loan disbursement schedule at appraisal with the actual disbursements is
given in Table 4 (Part II). Out of the total loan amount of US$310.0 million, US$302.9
million, or 97.7 percent of total, was disbursed. The last disbursement was made on
November 12, 1999. The undisbursed balance of US$9.0 million has been canceled. The
closing date of the loan was June 30, 1999 as originally scheduled.
The local inflation rate increased from about 7 percent per annum in 1992 to values ranging between 15 percent
and 24 percent per annum during period of 1993 and 1995. Project appraisal assumed a local inflation rate of 8
percent for 1992 and 5 percent for 1993 and thereafter.



- 8 -
27.   Technical Problems. There were no major problems during the entire period of
project implementation. Nevertheless, some technical problems were encountered during
the commissioning period such as difficulties with control of boiler water level, bypass
breakdown, and outlet pressure fluctuation of water supply pump. These problems, some
due to equipment supplier's fault and some caused by inadequate materials or
components, were solved and did not jeopardize the quality of the project as a whole.
28.   Interfacing Issues.  The many procurement packages both for domestic and
foreign supply of goods caused problems of interfacing management. As a result, it took
much longer time than expected to finalize the engineering. In particular, interfacing
management between I & C packages and other main and auxiliary plant equipment
required a great amount of information exchange to finalize the associated engineering
and construction drawings.
29.   Economic Performance.  At appraisal, an economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) was estimated at 14 percent. The ex-post estimate is 17 percent, higher than the
appraisal estimate6, indicating that the project is feasible from the overall economic point
of view. Detailed calculation is included in Annex C.
30.   Financial Performance.   Comparative financial statements containing the
appraisal projections and the actual data of SPEPB for the period of project
implementation (1992 through 1998), as well as SIPDC's financial performance summary
since its founding in 1994 are included in Annex D.
31.   Throughout the period of project implementation, SPEPB's financial performance
has been satisfactory. In 1998, though SPEPB's energy sales (64,850 GWh) decreased
slightly by 1.3 percent compared to the 1997 sales level, its operating revenue increased
by 5.8 percent due to increase of average tariff and the net income increased by 138.7
percent largely because of a substantial increase of non-operating income. From 1992 to
1998, SPEPB's energy sales increased by 46.6 percent (equivalent to an average annual
growth rate of 8 percent); the operating revenue almost quadrupled while the net profit
almost doubled.
32.   Three financial covenants were included in the Legal Agreements, namely:
SPEPB should (a) maintain a self-financing ratio (SFR) of not less than 25 percent for
1992 and 1993 and 30 percent thereafter; (b) debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.4
times; and (c) debt to equity ratio of not more than 75 to 25 for 1992 through 1996 and 70
to 30 thereafter. Over the course of project implementation, SPEPB has been in
compliance with all these covenants except in 1996 and 1997, the debt service coverage
6   The higher-than-expected EIRR was a result of several factors. Compared to the SAR estimates, the ex-post
costs (especially the fuel cost) increased substantially, and the energy sales decreased. However, the sales
benefits increased even more substantially due to much-higher-than-expected sales prices.



- 9 -
ratio was only 1.18 and 1.21 times respectively due to high debt service requirements.7
In 1998, SPEPB achieved a SFR of 86.7 percent, much higher than the covenanted 30
percent; the debt service coverage ratio was 2.6 times, meeting the minimum requirement
of 1.4 times; and the debt to equity ratio was 41 to 59, satisfying the maximum limit of 70
to 30.
33.   The Bank loan was initially on-lent to SPEPB and was transferred to SIPDC in
1997, when the original legal agreements were amended and two financial covenants
were introduced for SIPDC, namely: (a) debt service coverage ratio shall be at least 1.5
times; and (b) debt to equity ratio shall not be greater than 70 to 30 for 1997 through
1999, and 60 to 40 thereafter. SIPDC, the new owner of Zouxian Thermal Power Plant,
has recorded satisfactory financial results since its founding in 1994. From 1995 to 1998,
SIPDC's energy sales have increased by an average 15 percent annually, and its net profit
has increased by an average 37 percent annually. It has been in compliance with all the
above mentioned financial covenants.
34.   Since its establishment in mid 1994, SIPDC has tried several times to be listed on
the Hong Kong stock exchange. However, due to various reasons including domestic
macro adjustment, tariff issues and financial crisis in the East Asia region, the first few
attempts did not go through. SIPDC's initial public offering (IPO) was finally successful
on June 30, 1999. As of end July 1999, more than 1.43 trillion shares were issued on the
Hong Kong market (at HK$1.58 per share). It is expected that the successful IPO will
further strengthen SIPDC's financial position and performance.
35.   Environment Impact.  The project was designed to meet environmental
standards as set out in Chinese regulations and the Bank guidelines and to provide for
constant monitoring of the discharge, ambient and ash disposal areas. According to a
recent Bank study on Environmental Performance of Bank-Financed Thermal Power
Plants in China (August 1999 draft report), all the environmental related activities
included in the SAR (special studies, training, purchase of monitoring equipment, and
monitoring programs) have been completed, either met or exceeded the SAR
requirements. Zouxian Thermal Power Plant honored its environmental commitments and
obligations seriously. Although coal purchase policies in China have changed since the
time the project was designed, the plant has managed to maintain actual purchase of 0.5
percent sulfur coal as required in the SAR. Annual average sulfur dioxide emission rates
are estimated at 4.45 tons/hour, which is in excellent agreement with the SAR projection
of 4.8 tons/hour. Ash sluice waters were to be entirely recirculated, but it turned out that
a small amount (about 10 M3/day) is discharged. However, this has not resulted in
adverse impacts. Constant and regular monitoring has been undertaken at stations and
environmental vehicles by professional staff either from the Plant or from relevant
Government authorities; and measurement records indicate that the Plant has met the
Chinese environmental standards and Bank guidelines, except for the noise levels in
7  SPEPB's debt service obligations reached peak period in 199611997 and then started to decrease in 1998.



- 10-
certain spots as noted above (para. 8).
36.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The Bank-financed project was the third
phase of Zouxian Thermal Power Plant. The required land was already available long
before this expansion, thus neither land acquisition nor resettlement of people were
needed in association with this expansion.
37.   Concerning the transmission component, at the time of project appraisal it was
estimated that about 200 houses would be required to be relocated. However, the
transmission lines were rerouted during project implementation such that no relocation of
houses and no resettlement of people were needed. Land use during construction was
compensated according to the local policies and regulations.
38.    Project Risks. At the appraisal, no major risks were expected to affect the
project given the following factors: (a) the project was an extension of the existing power
plant, land was already available and field conditions were well known; (b) the project
was designed to meet the Chinese environmental standards and the Bank guidelines; an
environmental program was included to further reduce the possibility of developing any
adverse environmental impact; (c) the technical soundness and economic feasibility of the
project were well established, and the project was to be implemented by SPEPB staff
with extensive experience in power field; and (d) consultants, both local and foreign,
were to be hired to assist in engineering and design, procurement, coordination and
supervision of the project.
39.   The above assessments were thorough and realistic. Overall it turned out to be the
case. However, a few factors, although they did not greatly affect the project, should be
noted: (a) much higher-than-expected local inflation during the project implementation
resulted in much higher-than-estimated local cost, though the total project cost
maintained basically at the SAR estimated level due to lower-than-estimated foreign cost
resulting from international competitive bidding; and (b) there was a shortage of local
counterpart funds in 1995, which resulted in delays in delivery of domestic equipment
and finalization of construction drawings; nevertheless, the commercial operation of the
two generating units still met the SAR targeted schedules.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40.   The project is sustainable. On the physical side, the annual output will be
maintained at the contracted levels and the current power purchase price should enable
the power plant to cover its costs and make reasonable profits. Efficient operation and
maintenance of the power plant and transmission facilities can be expected given
SPEPB's strong technical capabilities, past records and the training provided under the
project. Both the power plant and the main transmission facility, Zibo 500kV Substation,
have been awarded as outstanding projects by Chinese authorities. In fact, they have



- I1 -
become "best practice" models in China and attracted many people in the power sector to
come for inspections and for training. For example, as of end 1998, Zibo 500kV
Substation had received about 3,700 visitors. Furthermore, Zibo substation has only 13
staff, less than half of the 31 staffing target set by national authorities, which not only
enables the substation to be operated more efficiently but also much more cost
effectively.
41.    On the technical assistance side, necessary follow-up actions have been taken
after completion of the two studies. The criteria and methodologies established under the
air pollution control study have been utilized for power plant siting in China's coastal
areas based upon air quality impacts. The tariff reform action plan has been under
implementation despite initial delays and has achieved good results (paras. 9-12).
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
42.   Bank performance from project preparation through completion was satisfactory.
The Bank maintained good relations with the borrower, the beneficiary, the implementing
agency as well as the consultants. The project was well appraised and risk assessments
were realistic. The Bank supervised the project and monitored the progress on a regular
basis and fielded 7 missions (including the ICR mission) during the project
implementation period. As reflected in the supervision missions' aide memoires, the
Bank reviewed in details the project implementation status and provided assistance as
well as recommendations to SPEPB and other agencies concerning all aspects of the
project. The Bank caused SPEPB to revise the project cost and implementation schedule
from time to time based on actual situation and also cautioned SPEPB about delays in the
implementation of project components in early stages, which ensured that the project was
completed in a timely manner.
43.   The borrower was satisfied with the Bank's performance.  Borrower's own
evaluation report (Annex B) states that "the World Bank was concerned much about
Zouxian Phase III Project all the time and gave it great support and assistance. Every year
they sent the mission to Zouxian site for supervision and inspection. As a result, all the
given instructions promoted the project management, and our work at all aspects made us
understand the management mode of the World Bank and accelerated the process to move
towards the international standards."
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. SPEPB and other relevant Chinese
agencies have shown a strong commitment to fully implement the project on schedule, at
high quality and within budget. Various parties involved cooperated closely to address
problems encountered. Special task forces were set up in connection with all major
aspects of the project implemeritation such as procurement, quality control, budget



- 12 -
control, environmental control, safety, training, commissioning and commercial operation
preparation. They carefully studied lessons and experiences learned from similar 600
MW units in both domestic and abroad thus prepared themselves very well. They also
paid great attention to training of their managers, engineers and operators. As a result of
all above, the two units were started and operated successfully with all performance
indicators achieved.
45.   Furthermore, implementing agencies also showed strong ownership of and
commitment to the studies included under the project. The two studies were successfully
completed. Implementation of the tariff reform action plan, despite initial delays, has
been generally satisfactory. SPEPB has committed to continue the tariff reforms in line
with the framework agreed with the Bank.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.   The project outcome is rated highly satisfactory. The main objectives were
successfully achieved. The two generating units and the transmission facilities financed
under the project have been under satisfactory operation and maintenance. The
beneficiaries have shown a strong sense of ownership, commitment and capabilities
which will ensure continued satisfactory performance of the power plant and transmission
facilities.
47.   The ex-post EIRR is 17 percent, higher than the appraisal estimate of 14 percent,
indicating sound economic viability of the project.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
48.   It is expected that the Zouxian Thermal Power Plant will continue to be managed
and operated efficiently and effectively given the excellent operation performance it has
already achieved and in view of the institutional building-up in the course of the project
implementation. SIPDC, the new owner of the power plant, successfully launched its
IPO recently on Hong Kong market, which should further strengthen its financial position
and management. SPEPB, the major share holder of SIPDC, should always be available
to provide any assistance to SIPDC and Zouxian Thermal Power Plant if necessary.
49.   The performance indicators for future operation were discussed with SIPDC
during the ICR mission. The agreed performance indicators are included in Table 6 of
Part II, which set targets for future operation in terms of plant utilization, efficiency and
environmental protection.



- 13 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   Several specific key lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for
the design of future power sector projects, can be drawn from this project. These are
summarized as follows:
(a)   The satisfactory implementation of the project has provided another
example that strong implementing agencies and their ownership and
commitment are key factors to a project's success.
(b)   Procurement packages should be carefully determined to minimize the
amount of interfacing work during implementation.
(c)   International consulting services are necessary but should be carefully
defined according to the actual needs and with flexibility. According to the
implementing agencies, the foreign consultants selected under the project
were well experienced with procurement related issues but did not meet
the expectations in areas of engineering, construction and commissioning.
However, it did not affect the project implementation adversely thanks to
the strong technical capabilities of the implementing agencies.
(d)   More attention and guidance should be given by the Bank to policy related
issues such as tariff reform, especially at the initial stages, to ensure timely
implementation of policy reforms in line with the agreed framework.



- 14 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZOUXLI4N THERMAL PWOER PROJECT
(LOAN 3462-CHA)
PART H. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs (Yuan million)
Table 8B:    Project Costs (US$ million)
Table 8C:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 15-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        N               Not applicable
Macro Policies                       ai              0                El                2
Sector Policies                     El                                El                E l
Financial Objectives                                 El               I                  Ea
Institutional Development                            El               F                  I.]
Physical Objectives                                   Fl LI                              [1
Poverty Reduction                   El                0                0E
Gender Issues                        a               E                El
Other Social Objectives             E                El               U
Environmental Objectives                             El               E                  El
Public Sector Management            E                I                I                  Ig
Private Sector Development          El                                E                  WI
Other (specify)                     El               E                E 
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)              ~~(1/)                       (v)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (/)                        (1)
Identification                     E                        WI                          E
Preparation Assistance             E                                                    El
Appraisal                          El                       WI                          E
Supervision                        E                        lg                          El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                         WI                      E                           E
Implementation - Physical          i                        E                           El
- Institutional       E                        WI                          El
Covenant Compliance                Fl                        W                          El
Operation (if applicable)                                      l                        El0
H ighly                                             H ghly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
Ol              WI               El 



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan No.                           Purpose                         Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
Ln. 2382-CHA       To construct a rockfill dam, a spillway, an underground   02/21/84    Loan closed on
Lubuge             powerhouse, to install 4 generating units of 150 MW             06/30/92.
Hydroelectric      each, 3 single circuits of 220 kV transmission lines; to
Project            provide consultant services and a training program.
Ln. 2493-CHA       To construct a 500 kV transmission line from Xuzhou to  02/19/85    Loan closed on
Second Power       Shanghai and 5 associated substations totaling 3,500            06/30/92.
Project            MVA in capacity, to install tele-control and
telecommunications equipment for load dispatching, and
to provide training for 400 kV transmission lines and
substations.
Ln. 2706-CHA &     To construct a coal-fired thermal power project with two  05/29/86 &   First loan closed
Ln. 2955-CHA       units of 600 MW and two single circuit of 500 kV   06/14/88     06/30/94.
Beilungang         transmission lines, and to carry out a tariff study, a study    Second loan
Thermal Power      on ZPEPB reorganization and management                          closed 06/30/95.
Projects I and II  improvement and a study for improvement of
distribution networks for the cities of Ningbo and
Hangzhou.
Ln. 2707-CHA       To construct a 110 m high concrete gravity dam, a  05/29/86    Loan closed on
Yantan             spillway, a powerhouse, and a shiplift; to install 4            06/30/94.
Hydroelectric      generating units of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits of
Project            500 kV transmission lines and 3 associated substations;
and to carry out a training program.
Ln. 2775-CHA &     To construct a 101 m high concrete gravity dam, a  01/06/87     Loan closed on
Shuikou            spillway, a powerhouse and a navigation lock; to install        6/30/93.
Hydroelectric      7 generating units of 200 MW each; to carry out a
Project            resettlement program in the reservoir.
Ln. 3515-CHA       To complete the ongoing Shuikou dam and            09/01/92    Loan closed on
Second Shuikou     hydroelectric power plan, upgrade the control and data          6/30/98.
Hydroelectric      acquisition system of the Fujian grid, carry out an action      Current ICR..
Project            plan for tariff reforrn, and a training program for
planning and financial management.
Ln. 3387-CHA &     To construct a 240 m high arch dam with an          07/02/91    Implementation
Ln. 3933-CHA       underground powerhouse, to install 6 550-MW         and         under way.
Ertan Hydroelectric  generating units and associated equipment; to carry out    08/22/95    First loan closed
Projects I & II    an environmental management program, studies of                 12/31/96.
power pricing and reservoir operation, and a training          Closing date of
program.                                                       second loan
12/31/2001



- 17-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (cont'd)
Loan No.                          Purpose                         Year of      Status
approval
Cr. 2305-CHA &     To construct a 56 m high gravity dam and an       10/31/91    Closed
Ln. 3412-CHA       underground powerhouse with 4 x 60 MW generating              12/31198.
Daguangba          units; to erect a 36 km long double-circuit 220 kV
Multipurpose      transmission line and to build canals to irrigate 12,700
Project            ha of land.
Ln. 3433-CHA       To install 2 300-MW generating units and 5 220-kV  01/14/92    Closed
Yanshi Thermal    transmission lines and associated substations; to carry        12/31/97.
Power Project      out a tariff study, a tariff action plan, and a training
program for upgrading the technical, financial and
management skills for HPEPB staff.
Following operations
Ln. 3606-CHA       To construct a pumped-storage hydroelectric power  05/18/93    Implementat
Tianhuangping      plant with six 300 MW reversible pump-turbine units,         ion under
Hydroelectric     together with upper and lower reservoirs, a water              way.
Project            conveyance system, an underground powerhouse; to              Closing date
erect 250 km long 500 kV transmission lines; to carry         12/31/2001.
out studies of optimal power plant operation and its
output pricing; and to strengthen the beneficiary's
organization through technical assistance and training.
Ln. 3718-CHA       To construct a coal-fired thermal power plant with two  03/22/94   Implementat
Yangzhou Thennal  600 MW generating units; to erect two 500 kV trans-            ion under
Power Project      mission lines (30 km long); to extend technical               way.
assistance for the development and implementation of         Closing date
improved accounting and financial management                  12/31/2000.
information systems; and undertake management
development and staff training.
Ln. 3848-CHA       To construct a new 500 kV transmission network    02/28/95    Implementat
Sichuan            consisting of 2,260 km of transmission lines and 5,250       ion under
Transmission       MVA of substations; provide technical assistance for          way.
Project           implementation of sector reform plan, organizational           Closing date
improvements and financial management systems.                12/31/2001.
Ln. 3846-CHA       To construct Beilungang Phase II power plant consisting   02/28/95    Implementat
Zhejiang Power     of three 600 MW coal-fired units; to construct 400            ion under
Development        circuit-km of 500 kV transmission lines, 2,250 MVA of         way.
Project            500 kV substations and reinforce distribution networks        Closing date
in Hangzhou and Ningbo; to extend technical assistance        12/31/2002.
to assist the power company in commercialization and
corporatization, establish computerized financial
management information system, improve transmission
and distribution planning and upgrade environmental
monitoring.



- 18 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (cont'd)
Loan No.                          Purpose                         Year of        Status
approval
Lri. 3980-CHA      To construct two 600 MW coal-fired thermal power  2/27/96     Canceled
Henan (Qinbei)     units; to erect two 165 km 500 kV transmission lines; to      12/12/97
Thermal Power      assist HPEPB in engineering, procurement and                  without
Project            construction supervision; and to extend technical             disbursement.
assistance to support the implementation of the power
sector reform action plan.
Ln. 41 72-CHA      To construct the first two coal-fired 600 MW units in  05/27/97    Implementation
Tuoketuo Thermal  Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region; to implement a               underway.
Power Project      desertification control and dryland management                Closing date
program: to assist TEPGC with the introduction; of            7/31/2004.
modern accounting and financial management systems,
environmental management, operation and maintenance
of the power plant and involvement of private investors
in existing and new power projects in Inner Mongolia.
To construct two 220 kV indoor substations in Beijing:
to add a 250 MVA transformer to Wangfujing
substation in Beijing; and to assist NCPGC to implement
accounting and financial management systems.
Ln. 41 97-CHA      To construct two 900-1000 MW coal-fired supercritical    06/24/97    Implementation
Waigaoqiao         units; to install FGD facilities at Shidongkou Power          underway.
Thermal power      Plant to offset SO2 emissions from the project; to            Closing
Project            construct two 500kV transmission lines; to assist             datel/3 1/2006.
SMEPC to implement modern accounting and financial
management systems, promote efficient management
and power sector reforms including financial and
corporate restructuring of the generation company.
Ln. 4303-CHA       To alleviate critical bottlenecks in power transmission  03/26/98   Implementation
East China        infrastructure and increasing electricity trade on a           underway.
(Jiangsu) Power    commercial basis in the East China region by (a) the          Closing date
Transmission       construction of 500 kV transmission lines and                 09/30/2004.
Project            substations; (b) implementation assistance for
engineering and construction management; (c) technical
assistance for improved interprovincial power exchange
policies and procedures; (d) technical assistance for
improved accounting and financial management
systems; and (e) institutional development and training.



- 19-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (cont'd)
Loan No.                          Purpose                        Year of        Status
approval
Ln. 4304-CHA       To support the introduction of (a) a market-based  03/26/98   Implementation
Energy            approach to financing energy conservation investments,        underway.
Conservation      energy performing contracting, which has the potential       Closing date
Project           to overcome some of the major impediments to energy          06/30/2006.
conservation in China; and (b) a new energy information
program, providing consumers with information on
financially attractive energy conservation investments.
The project components are: (1) Energy management
company demonstration component; (2) Information
and dissemination component; and (3) Program
management and monitoring component.
Ln. 4350-CHA      To remedy power shortages in Hunan by providing    06/18/98   Implementation
Hunan Power       efficient, reliable, and environmentally sound power         underway;
Development        supply. Project components include: (a) development of       closing date
Project           two 300 MW anthracite-fired generating units; (b)             12/31/2004.
supply and installation of about 794 km of 220 kV lines
and 1,920 MVA of transformer substations capacity; (c)
provision of technical assistance for construction
management; (d) provision of technical assistance for
preparation of commercial power purchase agreements
and other relevant documentation; (e) provision of
technical assistance for implementation of HEPC's
restructuring plan; and (g) provision of technical
assistance for improvement of the financial management
system.



- 20 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned       Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           -              08/15/88
Preparation                                          -              09/16/89
Appraisal                                            -              04/19/90
Negotiations                                         -              03/09/92
Board Presentation                                   -              04/21/92
Signing                                              -              07/22/92
Effectiveness                                        -              10/23/92
Midtenn review (if applicable)
Project Completion                                06/30/98          10/20/98
Loan Closing                                      06/30/99          06/30/99
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate           12.9   65.8   158.6  257.5   290.2   305.0   310.0
Actual                        0.0   26.8    80.7  207.1   273.6   295.3   301.0
Actual as percent of Estimate  0.0   40.7    50.9    80.4   94.3    96.8    97.1
Date of Final Disbursement    December 17, 1999.
(The loan account is still open at the time of ICR finalization. An
undisbursed balance of about US$ 9.0 million will be canceled
upon closure of the loan account.)



- 21 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. Power Generation Component
Indicators                  Appraisal       Actual    Comparison
Estimates
1. Procurement (for major equipment)
Issuance of bidding documents          12/31/91      03/18/92     + 3 months
Contract signing                       12/25/92      02/10/93     + 2 months
2. Plant Construction
Start excavation                       05/01/93      11/25/93     + 6 months
Start boiler steel structure erection  05/01/94      09/09/94     + 4 months
Hydraulic test of boiler               11/30/95      07/13/96     + 8 months
Complete erection of T-G & auxiliaries  03/31/96     09/23/96     + 6 months
Acid cleaning of boiler                04/30/96      09/15/96     + 4 months
Blow-out of boiler                     06/30/96      10/10/96     + 3 months
Trial operation
Unit #5                              07/01/96       11/14/96    + 4 months
Unit #6                              07/01/97      10/01/97     + 3 months
Commercial operation
Unit #5                              12/31/96      01/17/97     + 0.5 months
Unit #6                              12/31/97      11/05/97      - 2 months
B. Transmission Component
Item                    SAR Targets             Actual Construction
Number   km or MVA         Number   km or MVA
500kV transmission line           1          258 km          1          260 km
200kV transmission line           9          511 km          9         521.6 km
Transformer (Weifang S/S)         1         500 MVA          1         500 MVA
New 500kV Substation              1         750 MVA           1        750 MVA
New substation                    7        1800 MVA                    1800 MVA
Substation extension              5                          5
C. Training Program
SAR Target                        Actual
No. of Trainees   Staff-months    No. of trainees    Staff-months
Training in China       130            247.5            312              756.7
Training abroad         205            540.0            296              364.6
Total                   335            787.5            608             1121.3
Note: Training areas included: utility management, management information systems, financial
planning, procurement, environmental control, technical.



- 22 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Performance Indicators         Benchmark    1997    1998    1999    2000
Utilization and Efficiency
Annual Generation (GWh)
. Unit#5                                   3,120      3168    2288    3180    3180
. Unit#6                                   3,120       438     3506    3180    3180
Annual average utilization hours
. Unit #5                                  5200       5280    3814    5300    5300
* Unit #6                                  5200        730     5843    5300    5300
Equivalent availability factor (EAF, percent) a!
. Unit #5                                 76 or 85     86.5    68.5    85.0    85.0
* Unit #6                                 76 or 85             90.6    85.0    85.0
Standard coal consumption (g/kWh)
* Unit #5                                   351        342      337     336      336
 Unit #6                                   351                337      336      336
Environmental Protection
ESP efficiency (percent) b/
e Unit #5                                  99.6        99.6    99.6    99.6    99.6
* Unit #6                                  99.6        99.6    99.6    99.6    99.6
Notes:
*  Units # 5 and 6 started commercial operation in January and November 1997 respectively;
therefore, Unit #6 generation in 1997 was muclh lower than benchmark;
-  Unit #5 went through an overhaul and an expanded maintenance in 1998, thus the lower
actual performance than benchmarks;
e  a! EAF benchmark: 76 percent with overhaul; 85 percent without overhaul.
*  b/ The other units # 1 -4 also achieve ESP efficiency of 99.6 percent;
*  No indicators for project operations were included in SARIMOP.



- 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at                       Impact of
Study        Appraisal/Redefined     Status                Study
1. Study on Air  To examine the impact  Completed    The study achieved its
Pollution     on air quality of     and final     objectives of: (a)
Control       operating all thermal   report dated   establishing criteria for
units, and to develop    August 1995.  power plant siting in China's
guidelines and                      coastal areas based upon air
methodologies for                   quality impacts; (b)
minimizing air                      establishing NEPRI as a
pollution from thermal              center for excellence in air
power plants sited in               quality modeling (physical
coastal regions.                    and mathematical) as well as
in testing and evaluation of
flue gas desulfurization
schemes.
2. Tariff Study   To review existing   Completed    A six-year tariff reform
pricing, metering and   and final   action plan was developed,
billing arrangements;   report dated   which played a catalytic role
to design a new tariff   October    in Shandong's tariff reform.
structure and analyze    1994.      The achievements so far
the impact of tariff                include: (a) improved tariff
options and                         structure with unified tariff
adjustments; and to                 and time-of-day pricing; (b)
select a tariff structure          increased tariff levels; and (c)
and level to implement             reduced cross subsidies
under a four-year                  towards full removal in 2000.
action plan.



- 24 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(Yuan Million)
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                    Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs            Costs     Costs
Site preparation                         45.2         -    45.2    86.3          -    86.3
Civil works                              471.8     90.9   562.7   845.8       156.0  1001.8
Plant equipment and materials            778.6   1426.1  2204.7  2433.6    2140.5  4574.1
Transmission system                      343.4    131.3   474.7   840.8      196.7  1037.5
Air pollution control study                0.5      4.8      5.3     0.8       7.5      8.3
Training                                   7.0     11.8    18.8    12.5        7.4    19.9
Tariff action program                      0.5      0.5      1.0     0.8         -      0.8
Engineering & construction management    163.0     14.0   177.0    49.8          -    49.8
Base Cost                               1810.0   1679.4  3489.4        -         -        -
Physical contingencies                   181.0     84.0   265.0
Price contingencies                     427.5    480.2   907.7         -         -        -
Total Project Cost                      2418.5   2243.6  4662.1  4270.4    2508.1  6778.5
Interest during construction             591.0    282.6   873.6   868.2      274.8  1143.0
Total Financing Required               3009.5   2526.2  5535.7  5138.6    2783.9  7921.5



- 25 -
Table 8B: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                    Local  Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Costs     Costs            Costs     Costs
Site preparation                            8.4        -      8.4    10.4          -    10.4
Civil works                                87.7      16.9   104.6   101.9        18.8  120.7
Plant equipment and materials             144.7    265.1   409.8   293.2       257.9  551.1
Transmission system                        63.8      24.4    88.2   101.3       23.7  125.0
Air pollution control study                 0.1       0.9     1.0      0.1        0.9    1.0
Training                                    1.3       2.2     3.5      1.5       0.9    2.4
Tariff action program                       0.1       0.1     0.2      0.1         -    0.1
Engineering & construction management      30.3       2.6    32.9      6.0         -    6.0
Base Cost                                 336.4    312.2   648.6         -         -       -
Physical contingencies                     33.7      15.6    49.3
Price contingencies                        51.4      45.7    97.1        -         -       -
Total Project Cost                        421.5     373.5   795.0   514.5      302.2  816.7
Interest during construction              109.9      52.5   162.4   104.6       33.1  137.7
Total Financing Required                  531.4     426.0   957.4   619.1      335.3  954.4
Table 8C: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest
(US$M)                 Estimate(US$M)
Source                   Local  Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Costs     Costs            Costs     Costs
IBRD                         -     310.0   310.0         -     302.8  302.8
SEIC/China Development Bank         265.7       0.0   265.7    12.3           -    12.3
China Construction Bank              -         -        -   304.0          -  304.0
ShandongProvince/ElectricPowerFund      265.7     115.1   380.8   195.1          -  195.1
SIDP                         -         -       -    92.0        31.2  123.2
Electric Power Bond                -         -        -    15.7          -    15.7
Japan Grant Facility a/           0.0       0.9      0.9       -        1.3    1.3
TOTAL                     531.4    426.0   957.4   619.1        335.3  954.4
a/ The JGF amount was JPY121.5 million, equivalent to US$0.9 million at the appraisal; due to JPY
appreciation, the actual disbursement in US$ terms was US$1.3 million.



- 26 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate         Ex-post Estimate
Internal Economic Rate of Return         14 percent                 17 percent
(IERR) a/
a/ For detailed calculations, see Annex C.



- 27 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present fulfillment fulfillment             Description of covenant               Comments
type     status      date       date
Loan        3.01(c)        3         C                             GOC should enter into subsidiary loan
agreements between GOC and Shandong
Province and SPEPB, both under terms
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.01(b)       I         C                             GOC will furnish to the Bank not later than
6 months after the end of each fiscal year
the auditor's report.
Schedule      5         C                             GOC and SPEPB shall employ consultants
4,                                                    satisfactory to the Bank for project
Section                                               ilsnplementation.
it
Project     2.01(a)        5         C                             SPEPB shall (i) carry out a program of
training for the technical, financial and
management staff of SPEPB;
II       CD                             (ii) design and carry out a phased,      Implementation of
timebound action plan for power tariff   tariff action plan is
structure improvements and Shandong      satisfactory with
Power Grid, including a tariff study;    delays.
9         C                             (iii) carry out a monitoring programn for
eivironmental protection.
4.01(b)       I         C                             SPEPB shall furnish audited financial
statements within 6 months after the end of
each fiscal year.
4.02(a)       2         C                             SPEPB shall take all measures including
adjustment of levels and structure of tariffs
as determined by GOC to produce, for each
of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending
on December 31, 1992, (i) net operating
income equivalent to not less than 25
percent of its average annual investment
program for years 1993 and 1994, and (ii)
30 percent thereafter.
4.02(b)       2         CP                            SPEPB shall not incur any debt unless a   Debt service converge
reasonable forecast of the revenues and  for 1996 was 1.18;
expenditures shows that the projected    1.21 for 1997.
ilternial cash generation for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred
shall be at least 1.4 times the estimated debt
including the debt to be incurred.
4.02(c)       2         C                             SPEPB shall not incur any debt, if after the
incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to
equity shall be greater than 75 to 25 for
1992-1996, and 70 to 30 thereafter.
4.03          2         C                             By April 30 of each year, commencing
1993, SPEPB shall prepare and furnish a
rolliig long term financial plan containing
projected financial statements for reach of
the next eight fiscal years.



- 28 -
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                     8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               I. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                        allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                    action
6. =  Environmental covenants                            13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the Project that have not been complied with and/or been acted
against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                  Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle                  Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to appraisal                       -          -            -           -           59.3   133,999
Appraisal                                      -           -           -           -           71.3    175,937
Negotiation through Board approval             -           -           -           -            10.0     25,854
Supervision                                    -          -            -           -           62.5   147,733
Completion                                   10.0      42,300          -           -             9.5     40,500
TOTAL                                        -           -           -            -          212.6   524,023



- 29 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/   Number    Days          Specialized                                    Types of
Project Cycle     Year        of        in       Staff Skills      IP          DO               Problems
Persons    Field     Represented
Through Appraisal    09/88       3         4      Power Eng.         n/a          n/a
Fin. Analyst,
Economist
03/89       5         1 I    Power Eng.          n/a         n/a
Fin. Analyst
Economist
Env. Specialist
09/89       5         20     Power Eng.          n/a         n/a
Fin. Analyst,
Economist
04/90       5         16     Power Eng.          n/a         n/a
Fin. Analyst
Economist
Env. Specialist
Appraisal through   09/91        7         5      Power Eng.         n/a          n/a
Board Approval                                    Fin. Analyst
Economist
Env. Specialist
Board Approval      06/92        3         1       Power Eng..       n/a          n/a
through                                            Fin. Analyst
Effectiveness
Supervision         04/94        1         3      Power Eng.          S           S
05/95       1         3      Power Eng.          S            S        Delays in implementation
of tariff action plan.
11/95       3         1      Power Eng.          S            S        Delays in implementation
Fin. Analyst                             of tariff action plan.
Eng. Specia.
06/96       3         3      Power Eng.          S            S        Delays and partial
Eng. Specia.                             compliance with
implementing the tariff
action plan.
11/97       1         3      Power Eng.          S            S        Delays and partial
compliance with
implementing the tariff
action plan.
Completion          03/99        2         8      Op. Officer        HS            S
Eng. Specia.
Notes:
* IP - Implementation Progress;
* DO - Development Objective;
* S - Satisfactory;
*       - Highly Satisfactory.



- 30 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWRE PROJECT
(LOAN 3462-CHA)
ANNEXES
ANNEX A: MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
ANNEX C: CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL
RATE OF RETURN (EIRR)
ANNEX D: SPEPB'S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SIPDC'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS



- 31 -
ANNEX A
SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    This Aide-Memoire records the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Mr. Yuling Zhou who visited Jinan during March 2 and 11, 1999 to review the
implementation status of the project and to collect data for preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Mr. Jianping Zhao joined the mission from
March 2 to 4. The mission would like to express its appreciation to Shandong
International Power Development Company Ltd. (SIPDC) for the excellent arrangements
for discussions and site visits, and for the excellent preparation and assistance in
providing data and information, as well as for the warm hospitality and cooperation
extended to the mission during its stay.
2.    The mission  reviewed with SIPDC the ICR process and requirements, and
collected relevant data and information for its preparation. It also visited the Zouxian
Thermal Power Plant (third phase, two 600 MW units) and the Zibo 500 kV substation
financed under the Bank loan. In addition, the mission provided assistance to SIPDC in
preparing its own evaluation report which will be attached to the ICR. The mission
advised that SIPDC's evaluation report should focus on: (a) assessment of the project's
objectives, design, implementation, and operational experience; (b) evaluation of
implementation agencies' performance during evolution and implementation of the
project with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
(c) evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of
the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship between the project
implementation agencies and the Bank, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
Overview of Project Implementation
3.    The physical components have been successfully completed according to the
scope, budget and schedule designed at the project appraisal. The Unit 5 was put into
trial operation on January 17, 1997, almost one year ahead of schedule based on the
national standard in China. It passed all the inspection and accepted by the State Power
Corporation on October 22, 1997, and became the first 600 MW unit meeting the highest
level national standards and performance indicators in China upon commercial operation.
Unit 6 started trial operation on November 5, 1997, almost one and a half years ahead of
schedule based on the national standard. It was accepted by Shandong Electric Power 4.
4.    The trail operation of both units went through smoothly.  During the trail
operation, Unit 5 generated 1,664 GWh electricity and Unit 6 generated 1,590 GWh. As
of end 1998, Unit 5 generated 5,640 GWh and Unit 6 generated 4,060 GWh. The two
units were awarded "outstanding" project by the State Power Corporation in April 1998.



- 32-
5.    In addition to the two 600 MW  units, the Bank loan has financed a power
transmission component, including two 500 kV substations (one new and one expansion),
12 220 kV substations (7 new and 5 expansion), one 500 kV transmission line (260 km
in length), and nine 220 kV transmission lines (with a total length of 522 km). All these
transmission facilities have been successfully completed according to schedule and are
now under commercial operation. It should be noted that the Zibo 500 kV substation,
since its commercial operation started on November 11, 1995, has played a key role in
stabilizing and strengthening the Shandong Power Grid. It was also the first 500 kV
substation passing the highest level national standards and performance indicators in
China upon commercial operation.
6.    The successful completion of the project has made valuable contribution to the
alleviation of the acute power shortage in Shandong Province. Since the first half of
1998, power supply in Shandong has, for the first time, satisfied the demand. It means
the main objective of the project has been achieved.
7.    The technical assistance (TA) components have also been completed. The power
tariff study played a catalyst role in Shandong's tariff reform. The time-of-day tariff was
approved by the state authorities and introduced in 1994. As of 1996, all the eligible
consumers in the province have been charged the time-of-day tariff. Time is divided into
three periods: peak period, shoulder period and off period. The price for the peak period
is 1.5 times of that of the shoulder period. The price for the off period is 0.5 times of that
of the shoulder period. "New electricity, new price" was also introduced for all debt
financed power plants to enable them to meet their debt service requirements. The
average tariff in 1997 and 1998 was Fen 37.7/kWh (including VAT), 14.7 percent higher
than the 1996 level. While it is likely that the average tariff in 1999 would be maintained
at the same level, the tariff structure would be adjusted with focus on increase of the
residential tariff. It is expected that the subsidies to residential consumers would be fully
removed in 2000.
8.    Under the training program, 296 people were trained abroad with a total of 10,937
person-days, and 312 people participated in domestic training (with a total of 22,701
person-days). The training areas included utility management, information systems,
financial planning, procurement, construction, technical operation, and environmental
control. The actual training conducted greatly surpassed the targets set at the project
appraisal.
Review of Financial Aspects
9.    Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau (SPEPB)'s financial performance has
been satisfactory. In 1997, its energy sales reached 65,690 GWh, 6 percent higher than
the 1996 level. Its net profit was 736 million Yuan, 56 percent higher than that in 1996.
It was in compliance with the financial covenants under the except the debt service



- 33 -
coverage ratio. For 1997, SPEPB's self-financing ratio of 68.3 percent met the required
30 percent; the debt equity ratio of 1.16 satisfied the maximum limit of 2.33 times. Its
debt service coverage ratio was 1.21 times, slightly below the covenanted 1.4 times.
10.   The Bank loan was initially on-lent to SPEPB and was transferred to SIPDC in
1997. SIPDC, now the owner of Zouxian Thermal Power Plant, has recorded satisfactory
financial results in recent years. From 1995 to 1998, SIPDC's energy sales have
increased by an average 15 percent annually, and its net profit has increased by an
average 37 percent annually. It is in compliance with all the financial covenants under
the loan.
11.   Since its establishment in mid 1994, SIPDC has tried several times to go on
market. The most recent one was in January/February 1999. However, due to various
reasons including domestic macro adjustment, tariff issues and financial crisis in East
Asia, the first few attempts did not go through. The road show in early 1999 actually
went through quite well, but due to the market volatility occurred in Hong Kong at the
last minute, SIPDC had to decide to postpone its IPO. It is now continuing to look for
appropriate opportunities and will try to go on market as soon as possible.
Recalculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
12.   An Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 14 percent was calculated at the
time of project appraisal using the estimated economic costs of the project and associated
investments in transmission and distribution. Such an IERR has been recalculated at 17
percent in the same methodology based on the current projections.
Project Sustainability and Operational Plan
13.   The outcomes of the project are very likely to be sustainable. The completed
generation and transmission facilities have been integrated into the Shandong power grid
and have been under normal commercial operation. The mission was assured that the
project entities have adequate technical and financial capabilities to operate and maintain
these facilities at a high professional level. Relevant performance indicators were
discussed with SIPDC and will be finalized and attached to the ICR.
Disbursement
14.   As of end February 1999, out of the US$3 10 million Bank loan, US$302.2 million
or 97.5 percent has been disbursed. The mission reminded the implementation agencies
that the loan will be closed on June 30, 1999. Though the Bank may grant a four-month
period after loan closing for disbursement purpose, the balance of the loan can only be
disbursed against the expenditures associated with goods delivered or services rendered
on or before the loan closing date. Any unutilized loan proceeds will be cancelled.



- 34 -
Agreements Reached and Next Steps
15.  It was agreed that:
(a)   SIPDC will continue to provide the Bank with data and information at the
request of the Bank during preparation of the ICR;
(b)   SIPDC's own evaluation report (in English) will be submitted to the Bank
by June 30, 1999; and
(c)   A draft ICR will be send to SIPDC for comments by the end of September
1999. SIPDC will forward its comments, if any, to the Bank with a month
after receipt of the draft ICR. The ICR will be finalized and printed latest
by December 1999.
16.  It was also agreed that SIPDC will keep the Bank informed of its IPO progress.
March 11, 1999
Jinan, China



- 35 -
ANNEX B
Evaluation Report
of
Zouxian Thermal Power (Phase III) Project
from the Borrower
1.    The two 600MW generating units of Zouxian thermal power expansion project
(Phase III) and its corresponding power transmission component are financed to construct
under the World Bank loan. The initial borrower of the Bank loan was Shandong
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (SPEPB). InI997, the loan was transferred from
SPEPB to Shandong International Power Development Company (SIPD) under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
The two 600MW units have been put into operation. The total installed capacity
of Zouxian Power Plant now is 2,400 MW, which makes Zouxian Power Plant the largest
thermal power plant in China. With the excellent operation efficiency and management,
this power plant was awarded by the State Power Corporation "China First-level Thermal
Power Plant" in 1998.
2.    Zouxian Thermal Power project (Phase III), which is financed by the Bank loan,
has made valuable contribution to the alleviation of the acute power shortage in
Shandong Province and accelerated the national economy development of Shandong
Province. Zouxian Power Plant is a large modem mine-mouth thermal power generating
station and also a power load center of Shandong Power Grid. So the project not only
made effective use of the abundant coal resources of Shandong Province, but also
reduced the project costs and operation fees as well. So to finance this project is an
outstanding decision made by the World Bank.
The world Bank was concerned much about Zouxian Phase III Project all the time
and gave it great support and assistance . Every year they sent the mission to Zouxian site
for supervision and inspection. As a result, all the given instructions promoted the project
management, and our work at all aspects made us understand the management mode of
the world Bank and accelerated the process to move towards the international standards.
3.    Through the Zouxian Phase III Project, we have learned from abroad a lot of
advanced experience and expertise in terms of design, installation, commissioning and
operation, and introduced some advanced manufacturing technology, which greatly
upgraded our design, project management, operation and maintenance, production and
financial management level for 600MW units.



- 36 -
Under the technical agreements, we have strengthened the environmental
protection study and the tariff reform study for Shandong thermal power plants. At
present , the environmental protection of Zouxian Phase III project is completely up to
the national standards . The tariff reform of Shandong is now in the critical stage, and the
benign tariff system has primarily come into being. In 1998, the average tariff of
Shandong Power Grid was 14.7 percent higher than the 1996 level.
4.    During the whole period of the project construction, SPEPB, as the major
borrower, played a very important role in mobilization, coordination and decision, which
strengthened the whole procedural management in respect of design, procurement,
construction, comrnissioning and operation. During the project construction, China
Northwest Electric Power Design Institute carried out seriously the design principle of
"safe, reliable, applicable and effective" with consideration of the situation of china.
Meanwhile it also optimized continuously the blueprint and system of this project.
Shandong Electric Power Construction NO.1 company held its policy of "Safety First,
Quality First ". And it also utilized actively the new technology and new technique,
which shortened the construction periods greatly. Shandong Electric Power Research and
Commissioning Institute took charge of all work of commissioning and trial operation,
carried out the work seriously and carefully, and at last all commissioning indicators all
met the national standards and performance indicators. Zouxian Power Plant took active
part in the whole procedure management of the project, and paid more attention to the
production standards, especially to the training of operators. Because of the common
efforts and close cooperation among all parties, the two 600MW units both started their
trial operation ahead of schedule. The construction periods were shortened by almost 11.8
months and 17.2 months ahead of schedule based on the national standard respectively.
This project was awarded by the State Power Corporation as the outstanding project with
"the high speed construction , the excellent project quality, the moderate and reasonable
cost". The first 600MW unit of Zouxian Power Plant and its auxiliary transmission
facility - Zibo 500KV substation were respectively awarded by the State Power
Corporation as the first standard-reaching 600MW unit and the first standard-reaching
500KV substation in China on commercial operation.
5.    When we purchased the major equipment and materials utilizing the Bank loan,
the whole procedure was implemented strictly based on the procurement rules of the
World Bank and the International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The technology
performance indicators of the purchased equipment are proven to be very good with the
excellent quality and reasonable price.
The S & L Company and China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
were invited to be the consulting companies for this project. The above - mentioned two
companies provided us the excellent consulting services on preparing the bidding
documents, reviewing the bidding evaluation and conducting the technical negotiation
etc. We fully realized the benefit resulted from the International Competitive Bidding



- 37 -
(ICB) for procurement of the major equipment and materials and the necessity to invite
the consulting company in the international competitive - bidding system.
6.    To meet the requirements of the Bank, we paid much more attention to the staff
training. Under the training program, 285 people were trained abroad with a total of 9314
person-days, and 312 production backbones participated in domestic training (with a total
of 22701 person-days). The training areas covered the utility management, financial
management, procurement, information management, environmental protection, technical
operation and simulator training. The actual training areas, person-days conducted
surpassed the targets set at the project appraisal. It is the training that guaranteed the
successful startup and trial operation of the two units.
7.    Suggestions:
1) If utilizing the World Bank loan, the period is too long from the pre-appraisal
of project through the bidding and the procurement and down to the loan
disbursement. So we suggest that the World Bank should simplify some
unnecessary procedures so as to pick up the work of the project in earlier
stage.
2) When utilizing the World Bank loan, it is very fair, open and just to purchase
the equipment under the International Competitive Bidding, however the
procedures are so complicated, with much manpower and time consumed and
the procurement period is too long. So we suggest that the World Bank
should simplify some approval procedures and constrict the working tern of
all stages, so as to accelerate the speed of equipment procurement.
3) The consultative experts have rich experience in the International
Competitive Bidding, but they can't be fully competent while consulting
special issues and resolving actual engineering problems occurring in the
construction stage. So it is suggested that the World Bank should give more
instructions on selecting the consultative experts and on signing the
consulting contracts, meanwhile allow more flexibility.
*** *** ***



- 38 -
ANNEX C
Zouxian Thermal Power Project (Loan 3462-CHA)
Ex-Post Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
RMdB Yuan million
Capital Cost     O&M Cost         Fuel    Total  Generation   Sales    Total      Net
Year     Gen.   Trans.   Gen.  T&D         Cost    Cost    (GWh)   (GWh)  Benefits   Benefits
1992       32.0                                       32.0                                   (32.0)
1993      241.6                                      241.6                                  (241.6)
1994      448.7  127.0                               575.7                                  (575.7)
1995     1,491.1  445.0            40.4            1,976.5                                 (1,976.5)
1996    2,329.4  382.0             67.0            2,778.4                                 (2,778.4)
1997     1,624.1  253.0   372.0   84.4      272.3  2,605.8    3,544.1  3,346.6  1,566.7   (1,039.1)
1998      477.1   66.0   473.0  17L9        525.3  1,713.3     5,793.9  5,472.1  2,625.0     91t.7
1999                      225.3  171.5      594.1    991.0    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,836.4
2000                      251.0  171.6      623.8  1,046.5    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,780.8
2001                      260.2  171.8      655.0  1,087.0    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,740.3
2002                      270.2  172.0      687.8  1,129.9    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,697.4
2003                      284.2  172.1      722.1  1,178.4    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,648.9
2004                      296.0  172.2      758.3  1,226.5    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,600.9
2005                      308.9  172.2      796.2  1,277.2    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,550.1
2006                      326.8  172.2      836.0  1,335.0    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,492.3
2007                      342.1  172.2      977.8  1,492.1     6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,335.2
2008                       358.7  172.2     921.6  1,452.6    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,374.8
2009                      382.1  172.2      967.7  1,522.1    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,305.3
2010                      401.9  172.2   1,016.1  1,590.2    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,237.1
2011                      422.0  172.2   1,036.5  1,630.7    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,196.7
2012                      451.0  172.2   1,057.2  1,680.4    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,147.0
2013                      475.2  172.2   1,078.3  1,725.7    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3    1,101.6
2014                       510.7  172.2   1,099.9  1,782.8    6,240.0  5.894.0  2,827.3    1,044.5
2015                       540.0  172.2   1,121.9  1,834.0    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3       993.3
2016                      572.1  172.2   1,144.3  1,888.6    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3        938.7
2017                      619.1  172.2   1,167.2  1,958.6    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3        868.8
2018                      658.1  172.2   1,190.6  2,020.9    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3        806.5
2019                       701.1  172.2   1,214.4  2,087.7     6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3      739.7
2020                      748.5  172.2   1,238.7  2,159.4    6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3        668.0
2021                       800.9  172.2   1,263.4  2,236.5     6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3      590.8
2022                      858.8  172.2   1,288.7  2,319.7      6,240.0  5,894.0  2,827.3      507.7
EIRR        17.0%
Note: Assumptions for ex-post estimate of EIRR are available in the file.



- 39 -
ANNEX D
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (SPEPB)
INCOME STATEMENT
(Y1ats Million)
Year Ending December 31             1992               1993              1994               1995               1996               1997               1998
SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual           SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual
Electricity Sales (GWh)        42,045   44.227    45,672   47,054    49,430   53,093    53,495   57,794    57,821   61,988    62,498   65,690    67,480   64,850
Annual Sales Growth (%/)          7.7    13.2        8.6     6.4       82      12.8       8.2      8 9        8 1      7 3      8 1      6.0       8 0     (1.3)
AverageTariff(Fen/kWh)           172      14.9      19.1    18.3      20.6    19.0       22.2    22.3       23.3     286       249      33.7      26.3    36.2
Operating Revenue:
Sales Revenue                 7,222    6,611     8,710    8.610    10,170   10,095    11,882   12,876    13,469   17,739    15,572   22,137    17,774   23,461
Less: Sales tax               1,189      753     1,386    1,381     1,588      43      1,821      55      2,044      69      2,331     107      2,620     155
Total Operating Revenue       6,033    5,858     7,324    7,229     8,582   10,052    10,060   12,821    11,426   17,670    13.241   22,030    15,153   23,306
Operating Expenses:
Fuel                          2,532              2,931              3,365             3,864               4,411              5.030              5,634
Purchased Power                 950              1.062              1,114              1,167              1,224              1,232              1.372
Operating& Maintenance          578               671                765                866                997               1,176              1,377
Administration                  123                135               147                160                174                189                205
Depreciation                    497                582               662                741                864               1,053              1,277
Other Expenses                   22                26                 31                 36                 40                 47                 53
Total Operadng Expeuses a/    4,701    4,760     5,408    6,426    6,083    9,410     6,833   12,196      7,709   16,895     8,726   20,132     9,918   20,973
Operating Income                1,332    1,898     1,916     803     2,499      642     3,228     625      3,716      775     4,515    1,898     5,235    2,333
Non-Operating Income
Net Non-Operating Income         60      (39)       60      23        60       94        60      3 12       60      260        60      252        60   1,064
FinanceExpenses                 440                557     142       672      250       659      384       882      352      1,112    1,107     1,176    1,151
Total Non-operating Income     (380)    (39)    (497)   (119)    (612)   (156)    (599)    (72)           (822)    (92)   (1.052)   (S55)   (1,116)    (87)
Net lncoaue Before lncome Tax     953    1,059     1,419     684     1,888      486     2,629     553       2,895     683      3,463    1,043    4,119    2,246
IncomeTax                       531      137      799      128       998      I58      1.401     159      1,527     211      1.632     307      2,024     489
Net Income (Loss)                421      922       620      556       889      32S     1,228     394       1,367     472      1,831     736     2,095    1,757
Average Rate Base                7,984    8,790     9,334   11,892    10,473   10,894    11514    8,891    13;430   12,022    16,664   17,672    20,445   22,696
Rate of Retum (/)                16.7    12.5      20.5      6.8      23.9      5,9      28.0      7.0      27.7      64       27.1     10.7      256      10.3
Operating Ratio (%/)              77,9    81.3      73.8    88.9       709      936       679      951       67.5     95.6      65.9    91.4       65.5    900
a/ Breakdown of the actual operating expenses are not available.



- 40-
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (SPEPB)
BALANCE SHEET
(Yuan Million)
Year Ending December 31                          1992                1993               1994                1995                1996                1997                1998
SAR    Act-Il      SAR    Actual       SAR    Act,ll       SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual        SAR    Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cssh                                        657    1,017        674    1,046        710    1.60S        725    3,046       762    3,178        S13    3,548        856    3,989
Account Receivables                         396    1,101        477      .256       557    1,732       651    2,262        738    2,007        853    2,854        974    3,336
Inventories                                 658       540       741      688        S32      488        931      079      1,061      443      1,209      452      1,364      332
Otber Current Assets                                                       12                   1                 45                  19                  32               3,960
Total Current Assets                       1,711    2,688      1,893    3,002     2,099    3,829      2,388    6,232      2,560    5,647      2,876    6,886      3,194   11,625
Long-Term Investmet                                     90                 273               4,099               1,871               4,350               4,067               6,814
Fixed Assets:
Plant in Service                          11,592   11,767     13,248   19,785    15,115   10,996    16,732   16,039    20,552   18,243    25,117   28,654    30,444   30,160
Less: AccumulatedDepreciation              2,795    2,857      3,377    4,912     4,039    4,082      4,780    5,172      5,644    5,066      6,697    6,488      7,974    6,934
NetPlatoinSeivice                          8,797    S,910      9,870   14,073    11,076    6,914     11,952   10,067     14,908   13,177     10,420   22,166    22,47i   23,226
Construction WIP                           2,382    2,076      3,563    2,575     S,010    1,847      7,690    5,192      8,204    S.341      ,486    2.598      S,147    2,041
Total Fi.ed Assets                        11,179   10,986    13,434   17,448    16,086    8,761    19,642   16,059    23,113   21,518    26,907   24,724    30,618   25,267
Special fund AssetsOtherL-TAssets             306                 337      275        432      156       485       152       597    3,418        723    4,074        833    1,525
Intangible Asots& Deferred Assets                                          306                  63                   4                 204                 370                 103
TOTALASSETS                    13,196   13,734    15,663   21,354    18,617   16,908    22,435   24,318    26,269   35,137    30,508   41,721         34,644   45,334
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Currenl Liabilities:
S.TLooe/CatrentPorionofL-T Debt                       230                231                  95                 420               1,SS3               2,239               2,246
AccountPayuble                              764    1,662        S80    1,6S2        993    2,4S1      1,122    1,206      .260    2.110       1,41S    1,412      1,596    1,183
Other Current Liabilities                     40      t0S        41      360         43      239         45    2,242         47    1,844        49    2,955          S1    3,850
Totrl Current Liabilities                   804    1,997        922    2,273      1,037    2,S15      1,166    3,868      1,307    5,837      1,467    6,606      1,647    7,279
Lortg-Tern Loan                              8,311    7,414    10,051   10,021     11,969    4,543     14,540    7,636     16,805   12,050    18,701   15,193    20.27S   15,703
Other Long-Term Liabilities                             134                228                 281                  39                 336                 581                (157)
Totol Long-Term  Liabilities               8,311    7,648     10,05t   10,249    11,969    4,824    14,540    7,675    16,805   12,386       18,701   15,774    20,278   15,546
Minority Stockholders Equity                                                                                       922                 971                975                1,034
Working Capital Funds                         142                 164                 189                209                 263                 327                 402
Goverent Funds                               3,161              3,676               4.409               5,394               6,601               8,498              10,632
Special Funds                                 779                 S5i               1,013               1,125               1,295               1,512               1.685
Osver's Equity:
Paid-inCapital                                      4,020               8,088              7.519               7,519               7,760               8,840              10,065
CapitalSurplus                                          5                 271                893               3,110               6,540               7,355               8,205
Surplus Reserves                                      2S8                 614                845                1,224               1,643              2,171               3,125
RetainedEarnings                                     (124)              (141)                  12
Totrl Equity                               4,081    4,189      4,691    8,832     5,611    9,269      6,728   12,775      8,158   16,914    10,338   19,341      12,719   22,509
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY              13,196   13,734    15,663   21,3S4    18,617   16,908    22,435   24,318    26,269   35,137    30,505   41,721        34,644   45,334
Debt Equity Ratio(debtas%ofdebt+eq.ity)        67       64         68       53         68       33        68        37        67        42        64        44        61        41
Current Ratio (times)                          2.1      1.3        2.1      1.3       2.0       1.4       2 0       1.6       2.0      1.0        2. .0      0        1.9      16



-41 -
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (SPEPB)
FUNDS FLOW STATEMEN'T
(Yuan Million)
YearEndingDecember31                        1992             1993             1994             1995              1996               1997                199S
SAR   Actual    SAR   AcUI    SAR   ActuRl    SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual              SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual
Internal Sources of Funds:
Net income Before Interest              869    922     1,16    638    1,571    485       1,897    393     2,261      470      2,955     736      3,285    1,762
Depreciation                            457    560       537    693       615    675       688    925        819      986      1,007    1,499     1,22S    1,919
Amortization                                                                      149               90                 27                  S                  13
Maintenance                             252              299              343              387               455                559                 683
Debt to be paid by tax reduction        475              607              774              978             1,221               1,524              1,804
Other Internal Source of Funds           60    387        65      44       70    125        76        1       82       19        89       51         96       17
Total Internal Sources                2,113   1,869    2,694   1,375    3,373   1,434    4,027   1,409     4,837    1,502      6,134    2,294     7,096    3,711
Other Sources of Funds
Borrowings                            2,239   1,49S    2,583   3,845    3,033   1,732     3,935   2,696    3,925    5,357      4,342    5,44S     4.373    4,149
Fixed/Intangible Assets Shifted Out                                             3,367                               2,860
NetIncreaseofPaid-inCapital                     47               880              906             2,310             4,138               2,422              3,110
Others                                         128
Total Other Sources of Funds          2,239   1,673    2,583   4,725    3,033   6,005    3,935   5,006     3,925   12,355      4,342    7,870     4,373    7,259
Total Sources of Funds                4,352   3,542    5,27S   6,100    6,406   7,439    7,962   6,415     8,763   13,857    10,476   10,164     11,469   10,970
Capital Expenditures
Increase in Fixed-Assets and WIP      2,459   1,763    2,837   4,028    3,314   2,520     4,297   3.570    4,334    6,466      4,847    5,148     4,971    3,211
Increase in Long-Term  nveslment                                i82            3,825              387              2,860                517               1,947
Increase in Intangible & Deferred Assets                                                                            3,93S               1,397
Total Capital Expenditures            2,459   1,763    2,S37   4,210    3,314   6,345     4,297   3,957    4,334   13,264      4,847    7,062     4,971    5,158
Operational Reqairements
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital     27               25               3 1              43                22                 40                  20
Increase/Decrease in Special Funds       38               31               95               53               I(2                 (26                (10
Debt Service (total)                    663    739       843   1,126    I,15    373      1,363    587     1,661    1,216      2,446    1,704     2,796      753
Remittances to Government               270              476              617               922              995               1,044               1,339
Special Fund Expenditures              434               491              528              609               721                809                1,014
Interest Charged to Opeations& IDC      440              557              672              659               882               1,112              1,176
Distribution of Profit                         779              696               497              392                470                570
Total Operational Requirements        1,873   1,51S    2,424   1,S22    3,8S7    870    3,649    979    4,392    1,686         5,578    2,274     6,455      753
Total Application of Funds            4,332   3,281    5,261   6,032    6,371   7,215    7,946   4,936     8,727   14,950    10,425    9,336      11,427    5,911
lncrease/Decrease in Cash                 21    261         17      68       36    224        16   1,479        36   (1,093)       52      828         43    5,059
Debt Service Coverage (times)             1.5    2.5       1.6    1.2       1.6     2 7       I.8     1 9      1.6      1.2        1.5      1.2       1.6      2.6
Self-Financing Ratio (%)                 20.S             26.0   62.1      26.8   57.4       32.6   48.7      32.0    43 2       33.9    68.3        39.1     86.7



- 42 -
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG INTERNATIONAL POWER DEVELOPMENT CO. LTD. (SIPDC) a/
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(Yuan Million)
Year Ending December 31        1994        1995       1996       1997       1998
Energy Sales (GWh)               6,026.6   12,143.8   11,502.6   14,520.7   17,554.2
Average Price (fen/kWh)           14.29      14.29      19.23      29.45      34.85
Operating Revenue                 735.8    1,482.7    1,890.2    3,654.7    5,228.1
Operating Expense                 711.2    1,481.5    1,833.3    3,346.9    3,861.2
Operating Income                   24.6        1.2       56.9      307.8    1,366.9
Netlncome(aftertax)                15.6        0.8       37.7      207.1      915.8
Rate Base                        3,181.2    3,065.4    3,551.5    7,428.5   10,926.0
RateofRetum(%)                     0.77       0.04       1.60       4.14      12.51
Operating Ratio (%)                96.7       99.9       97.0       91.6       73.9
Current Ratio (times)               1.0        1.1        0.6        1.0        0.8
Debt Service Coverage (times)     347.8      258.3       46.5        2.3        1.6
Debt Equity Ratio (times)          0.18       0.36       2.03       2.17       2.29
Debt Equity Ratio               (15:85)    (26:74)    (67:33)    (68:32)    (70:30)
Note: a/ SIPDC was established in 1994 as a limited liability company.



MAP SECTION






n ,.2/   ':)  ;S  ....................... nSr,; .. 1lb' 117' < 11t' : 119- .,: . . 120> 1217 1224 IBRD 22046~~~~~~~~~IRD 2204
i -, 'h-; y! $ >= Z , TA Cllony~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                                                                        20o''i _ 
c,in-gA5t Rcn'^ Jl QHEBEI -!,','    s
9   j          '    /                0       4               + *     0       ::-0:     ji & 5 Q -n S    /         0       *     '  '   0   (    /  i Z H A N H U A   _60 0   M M
/ C 4~~ / t S | 2  3  h-4'0   0 i0~             _                                                        2         0         i.xsmso n
,)/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~  HEAIj       )XAG > S     2T68    ;9,                                     /       j/TtOMV                                                                              tj      1       @Tema  oe  lz
t   j 2   Tt  1 2 5   M t V I u   , , ,   |  , !   t   j y e n g b e i i   \   8  |  Z i n        t o r ls h o n  4   9                                                 R u 7 e rt                                               T S >_Y -   (2   N 191 0   M
' < >z_ \ ; L Q~~~~~~~~UANrIA                                                                                                                                                Iv,j        S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                     WEI FAN  _-; - _   \z    s    aninhpl    
CC.C~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~6 4*                                                                                       - - - - -> --^ -<   - 8t j    t\                                                   2         n        7         0
r   HENAN   \  z   ~ ~~ -.     tX       ,               '       >     ,  9     9       JIANGSU                \                X          /   -        ~        ~        ~                h'lLOM:TERSc
T=8{AN UI                                                   ->   -------              .     '     9l                                           -          . 
h            To F n g                                   '/-'
1;5-  116 117: s  1!a- -  a,- \/  2  '17.12'FBUR199



