Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                                Report No. 10432-CHA
Report No. 10432-CHA Type: (SAR)
MASTILOVIC/ X82450 / A8081/ AS2IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
MARCH 24, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duttks. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1991)
Currency       Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00   -   100 fen
$1.00   -   Y 5.38
Y 1.00   -   $0.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km          Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh         Kilowatt hour (- 860.42 kcals)
GWh   -     Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh         Terawatt hour (1,000,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW          Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW          Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW    -     Gigawatt (1 million kilowatts)
Kcal  -     Kilocalorie (- 3.97 British thermal units)
kV          Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA         Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MBtu        Million British thermal units
NJ          Mega-joule (1 million joules)
MVA   -     Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
GVA         Gigawatt-ampere (1 million kilovolt-ampere)
mf    8     Milligram
m           Cubic Meter
toe   -     tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CIECC    - China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
CPECC    - China Power Engineering Consulting Corporation
GOC       - Government of China
GNP       - Gross National Product
HIPDC    - Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
IAEA     - International Atomic Energy Agency
MOE       - Ministry of Energy
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
NWREP    - Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
NEPA      - National Environmental Protection Agency
NWCEPDI  - Northwest China Electric Power Design Institute
PCBC      - People's Construction Bank of China
SAA      - State Audit Administration
SEIC      - State Energy Investment Corporation
SPAB     - Shandong Provincial Audit Bureau
SPC      - State Planning Commission
SPEPB    - Shandong Provinciai Electric Power Bureau
SPG      - Shandong Power Grid
TCC       - Technical Cooperation Credit
WREPERI  - Water Resources and Electric Power Economic Research Institute



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZOU THERMAL  POW_ER PROJECT
Loan and Proicat Suiarv
Borro2ax              People's Republic of China
5n f1ietrys          Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau (SPEFB)
Aounts:               $310 million equivalent
Ta=g rLi2 years, including flive years grace, at the Bnik's
standard variable interest rate.
Onlendine Terms:      The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Govern-
ment through Shandong Province to SPEPB under a sub-
sidiary loan agroement, with a 20-year term, including
five year. grace, at the Bank's otandard variable
interest rate. SPEPB will bear the foreign exchange
risk and the comitment charges.
Prolact Obigtlive.
and Descrlgtion:   The principal objectives of the project are to:
(i) alleviate the acute power shontage in Shandong;
(ii) develop large modern mine-mouth thermal power gen-
erating stations to make effective use of China's abun-
dant coal resources; (iii) continue the effort to trans-
fer the appropriate advanced technology in plant design
and project management for 600 MW thermal power units;
Civ) provide technical assistance to SPEPB for institu-
tion building in the areas of environmental planning for
thermal power soations and improving electricity tariff
structures; and (v) upgr&de SPEPB's capability in
financial managemena, accounting and budgetary control,
and in the operation and maintenance of large thermal
power plants. The proposed project is located about
175 kIm south of Jinan in Shandong. The project consists
oft (i) the addition of two 600 MW generating units to
the existing Zouxian thermal power plant to raise its
total capacity to 2,400 MWI (ii) construction of 500 kV
and 220 kV transmission lines and substations;
(iii) provision of consulting services; (iv) provision
of technical assistance to study the impact on air qual-
ity of thermal power expansion progrema and to develop
methodologies for selecting sites in China's coastal
regions which minimize adverse environmental Impacts;
(v) carrying out a power tariff study and a phased,
time-bound action plan for improving Shandong's tariff
structuret and (vi) a training program for the techni-
cal, financial and management staff of SPEPB.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Benefits and
Risks:              The proposed project will greatly alleviate the expected
power shortages in Shandong by 1997. Mine-mouth base
load coal-fired plants represent the least-cost solution
for meeting power demand in the Shandong power system,
and extending the Zouxian power plant would enable the
increase of the critically needed generating capacity in
the most effective and efficient manner. Also, through
the project, the Bank will be able to support the Gov-
ernment's power subsector policy and its sectoral objec-
tives in China. The technical and economic feasibility
of the project has been well established. The project
has been designed to comply with applicable World Bank
and Chinese standards in order to keep environmental
impacts within acceptable limits. An environmental
monitoring program will be included under the project to
further reduce the possibility of developing any adverse
environmental problems. The project risks, therefore,
are considered to be minimal.
Estimated Costs:                               Local         Foreian         Total
---------- ($ million) ----------
Site preparation                               8.4             0.0           8.4
Civil works                                   87.7            16.9         104.6
Plant equipment and materials                144.7           265.1         409.8
Transmission system                           63.8            24.4          88.2
Air pollution control study                    0.1             0.9           1.0
Training                                       1.3             2.2           3.5
Tariff action program                          0.1             0.1           0.2
Engineering and construction management       30.3             2.6          32.9
Base Cost                                 336.4           312.2        648.6
Contingencies
Physical                                    33.7            15.6          49.3
Price                                       51.4            45.7         97.1
Total Prolect Cost /a                     421.5           373.5        795.0
Interest during construction /b              109.9            52.5         162.4
Total Financing Required                  531.4           426.0        957.4
Financing Plan:                                Local        ForeiRn          Total
---------- ($ million) ----------
IBRD                                             -          310.0          310.0
SEIC                                         265.7              -          265.7
Shandong Province                            265.7          115.1          380.8
Japanese Grant Facility                          -            0.9            0.9
Total                                     531.6          426.0          957.4



Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       1993      1994      1995     1996     1997      1998      1999
--------- ___------- ($ million) --------------------
Annual             12.9     52.9      92.8     98.9      32.7     14.8       5.0
Cumulative         12.9     65.8    158.6    257.5    290.2    305.0    310.0
Economic Rate of Return:  14 percent
M p: IBRD 22046
/a  The prcject is exempt from taxes and duties.
/b Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rate for pro-
jected disbursements of loan proceeds. The foreign currency portion of
IDC is based on the Bank loan variable rate.



CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
PaRe No.
I.   THE ENERGY SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     
A. Overview    ............ .. . . .                 .  .   ....    1
B. Energy Sector Issues  . ...  .  .  .  .  .   ............  .  3
C. Ersrgy Sector Strategy  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .     . *.   7
D. Bank Role in the Energy Sector  .     . ..  . . . . . . .    7
II.   THE POWER SUBSECTOR . . . . . . . . . . *  . *...  . .  . . .  . .    9
A.   Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    .  .  9
B. Institutions, Planning and Technology Transfer  . . . . .   10
C. Power Pricing .    .  .  . . . . . .        . . .  . .   11
D. Subsector Issues &  Strategy  .     .  .  .  .  .  ..     . . .    12
E. Role of the Bank    he Power Subsector . .       *    *. .  .  .    13
III.   THE BENEFICIARY . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
A. Legal Status and Organization of SPEPB  . .  . . . . .      15
B.   l'anagement  .  .  .  .  .  .  I  . *    .  .  . .  .   .  *   .  15
C. Staffing and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
D. Planning, Budgeting and Control . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
E.   Accounting  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .  .  .  17
F.   Audit    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
G. Electricity Tariffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
H. Billing and Collections .9..                .    .          2C
1.    Insurance    .  .  .  .  .  . * .*..  . .   9.  .  . .   .   .   .   .   .   .  21
J. Rural Electrification  . . . . . ....  . . .     . .    21
K. Distribution System  . . . . . . . . . . ..21
IV.   THE POWER HARET AND THE PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
A. The Shandong Power Grid  t. ..........    22
B.   Load  Forecast   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  * #   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
C. The Power Development Program (1991-2000)  . . . . . . . .   23
This report was prepared based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited China in April/May 1990 and a post appraisal mission in September
1991.  The report was prepared by V. Mastilovic (Task Manager),  B. Baratz
(Principal Environmental Speci-list), S. Kataoka (Senior Power Engineer),
W. Cao (Senior Power Engineer), H.E. Sun (Financial Analyst), 0. Koenig
(Senior Economist), and K.C. Ling (consultant). Peer reviewers comprised: D.
Mehta (Principal Power Engineer), K. Jechoutek (Senior Economist), S. Shum
(Senior Financial Analyst), and N. Anderson (Senior Project Officer). The
Division Chief is J. de Merode, and the Department Director is S.J. Burki.



Page No.
V.   THE  PROJECT .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
A. Project Objectives  .  . .       .  .   .               . .   25
B. Project Description   . .  . .  . . . . . . . .          .   25
C. Cost Estimate . . . . .  .     .  .          ..  .  .   . .  . ..   29
D. Financing Plan  . . . ... .      * . .   .   . . . . . . . . .   30
E. Procurement  . . . . . . . .  .. .  .  . . . .   . . . . ..   32
F. Project Implementation   . . . .      .  . . . . . . . . .   32
G. Disbursement   ....                 ...... .... .    33
H. Monitoring and Reporting   . .   .  . . . . . . . .  .    34
I. Environmental Considerations    .   .  . . . . .     . .   .   35
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ................                           .   38
A.   Introduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
B. Financial System  . . . . . .    *............ .    38
C. Past and Present Financial Performance        .  .  .  .   .    38           K
D. Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       39
E. Future Finances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
VII.   JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
A. Need for Power System Expansion  .. . . . . . .    43
B. Least-Cost Studies.. *  . . . . . . . . .   44
C. Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
D.    Risks    ...........        .       ..........             45
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION..............                       46
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1    Distribution of SPF?E Consumption . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
4.1    Load Growth on Shandong Power Grid  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
4.2    Load Forecast for Shandong Power Grid . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
5.1    Summary of Project Costs  . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   .   30
5.2    Financing Plan for the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
5.3    Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  . .  . .  . . .   33
5.4    Implementation Schedule:  Estimated Annual Contractual and
Other Payments  .    * . . . . . . . . #  . . .  . . . . .  .    34
6.1    SPEPB's Key Financial Indicators, 1985-90 . . . . . . . . . .   39
6.2    SPEPB's Financing Plan, CY92-98 . . . . . . . . . . . .    .    40
6.3    SPEPB's Key Financial Indicators, 1990-200 . . . . . . . . .   41
7.1    Energy and Capacity Balance . . . .  .  . ...   .  . ... ..   43
7.2    Comparison of Alternatives  . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .....  44



- iil -
1.   Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation, and Sales
ir. the Power Subsector  . . . . . . . . . .    . .. . .   . . .   48
2.   Growth Index of Electricity Generation and Primary
Energy  Demand   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  49
3.   Electricity Consumption by Sectors  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50
4.   Major Ongoing Hydro and Thermal Power Projects  . . . . . . .   51
5.   Performance Indicators for Shandong Power System  . . . . . .   53
6.   SPEPB Staffing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .      . .   54
7.   Planning, Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaus . . . .   55
-.   SPEPB Electricity Tariffs . . ............ . . . .   58
9.   Major Generating Facilities in Shandong Province  . . . . . .   59
10.   Energy Consumption by Category of Consumer  . . .    . . . . . .   63
11.   Power Davelopment Program of SPG (1991-2000)  . . . . . . . .   64
12.   System Demand and Energy Balance of SPG . . . . .  . .  . . .    66
13.   Terms of Reference for Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . .   67
14.   Development of Methodologies and Guidelines to Minimize
Air Pollution from Thermal Power Stations Sited in
Coastal/Complex Regions . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .   71
15.   Terms of Reference for Tariff Study . . . . . . . . . . . . .   79
16.   Action Plan for Power Tariff Structure Improvements . . . . .   84
17.   Institutional Development and Training Program  . . . . . . .   86
18.   Project Cost Estimates               . . .               .    95
19.   Procurement Schedule  ... .... . ..........   96
20.   Key Dates of Project Implementation .. . . . . . . . . . .   97
21.   Disbursement Schedule .        . . . . . . . .        . .      98
22.   Air Pollution Characteristics of the Zouxian Thermal
Power  Plant   .   9 .  .  .  .  .  o  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  o  o  .  .  .  .  .   99
23.   Summary of Mitigating Measures Recourended in the
Environmental Impact Assessment . o . . . . . . . . . . . .   100
24.   Environmental Monitoring Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  102
25.   Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus  . . . . .  108
26.   Annual Financial Statements of SPEPB  . . . . . . . . . . . .  112
27.   Calculation of Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . .  122
28.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .    126
CHARTS
1.   Organization Chart of MOE
2.   Organization Chart of SEIC
3.   Organization Chart of SPEPB
4.   Organization Chart of the Proposed Construction Unit
5.   Project Implementation Schedule
M4AP
IBRD 22046



CHINA
ZOUXLAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTCR
A. Overview
1.1       China has made remarkable progress in developing its energy
resources over the last four decades and became the third largest producer of
commercial energy in the world. In that period, the output of coal has
increased at an average annual rate of 9.1 percent, crude oil production at
19.3 percent, and electricity generation at 13.1 percent. In 1990, the coun-
try's primary commercial energy supply amounted to 727 million tons of oil
equivalent (toe). Coal is the most important source of commercial energy,
accounting for about 74 percent of the total. Oil accounts for 19 percent of
the total and provides about 7 percent of the country's export earnings.
Hydroelectric power (4.6 percent), natural gas (2 percent), and small quanti-
ties of shale oil and geothermal power make up the balance. Noncommercial
energy, equivalent to about one-third of commercial energy production, is very
important in rural China.
1.2       In 1990, China's final consumption of commercial energy was esti-
mated to be about 686 million toe. The largest consumer of commercial energy
is the industrial sector (62 percent), followed by households (24 percent),
services (9 percent), and agriculture (5 percent). About 20 percent of oil
and 2 peL-,nt of coal production currently are exported. Coal and its by-
products meet 70 percent of the fuel requirements for industry and power gen-
eration, provide 60 percent of the raw materials for chemicals, and satisfy
80 percent of the commercial energy needs of households. The country also is
the third largest consumer of commercial energy in the world. Still, energy
consumption per capita is low--about 0.6 toe, or one-third of the world aver.-
age.
Energy Resources
1.3       Coal.  China has large coal deposits with recoverable reserves of
about 900 billion tons, of which 30 percent are proven. In 1990, the country
produced 1.1 billion tons of raw coal, of which it exported only 16 million
tons. By the year 2000, China aims to produce 1.4 billion tons of coal a
year. Coal is produced in many provinces and the amount and quality vary.
The best quality coals are found in North China, which is also the region with
the largest coal surplus. However, insufficient transport capacity makes it
extremely difficult to move coal from mines in North China to the large con-
suming centers in Southeast, Central, and East China.
1.4       Hydroelectric Potential.  China is rich in water resources and has a
long tradition of harnessing them for energy and other uses. The country's
hydroelectric potential is estimated at 1,900 Thh a year, but only about
9 percent of it has been developed. Most of the potential is located in four
major river basins in the Southwest (70 percent) and Northwest (12 percent),



-2-
about 1,500 km away from the main demand centers. The long gestation period
for hydroelectiic projects also has inhibited the more rapid development and
utilization of hydroelectric resources.
1.5       Crude Oil.  China's ultimately recoverable reserves of crude oil
have been estimated at some 80 billion tons, of which 16 percent are proven.
The country produced 138 million tons of crude oil in 1990, and the target
output for the year 2000 is 200 million tons. In view of the natural decline
in production from exicting aging fields, it seems unlikely that this produc-
tion target can be met. China's refining capacity is the sixth largest in the
world and allows it to produce a relatively high share of high and medium
distillates.
1.6       Natural Gas.  China's natural gas resources are estimated at
33 trillio..- _.ubic meters (m3), of which 2.6 percent are proren.  About 50 per-
cent of the §as produced is nonassociated gas. In 1990, China produced
15 billion m  of natural gas.   The target output for the year 2000 is 25 bil-
lion m3 . Most of the gas is used as feedstock for fertilizers and petrochem-
icals.
1.7       Biomass.  Noncommercial biomass energy use currently amounts to
about 195 million toe, or aboat one-quarter of total energy consumption in
China. Fuelwood, brush and agricultural straw and stalks are the chief bio-
mass fuels, and they are consumed almost entirely by rural households. Bio-
mass fuel consumption exceeds environmentally sustainable supply levels based
on traditional supply methods. The Government is promoting a variety of mea-
sures to address this problem, including more efficient use of biomass fuel,
tree plantingw and substitution of other fuels, including coal, for tradi-
tional biomass fuels.
1.8       Nuclear Energy.  Known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to
sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear power capacity for 30 years. In 1991, China
commissioned the Qinshan nuclear power plant (300 MW). In 19Q2/94, Daya Bay
nuclear power plant (2x900 MW) should be commissioned; 70 percent of its out-
put is intended for nearby Hong Kong. The construction of a few additional
plants is planned to start before the year 2000, primarily In regions which
lack coal and hydroelectric resources.
1.9       Other Energy Resources.  Other energy resources play a small role in
energy supply and are uised mostly in remote areas. Geothermal energy has been
found in more than 3,000 locations covering nearly bll provinces and autono-
mous regions. The Yangbajing geothermal power plant, located in Tibet, sup-
plies about 50 GWh a year. Although wind and solar energy have promising
prospects (e.g., wind in Inner Mongolia), they are not expected to affect the
overall supply of energy significantly during the next two decades. Unoffi-
cial estimates of oil shale suggest that deposits are large, but little is
exploited because of lack of technology.
Institutions of the EnerRy Sector
1.10      Thle Ministry of Energy (MOE) was established in 1988 to manage and
develop the energy sector. MOE was given responsibility for electric power,
formerly held by the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP).



-3-
The new ministry has primary responsibility for planning and establishing
policies and regulations to promote the rational development and use of energy
resources. MOE oversees various companies and administrations responsible for
energy operations in China. Chart 1 shows the organization of MOE.
1.11      The State Energy Investment Corporation (SEIC) was established dur-
ing the same period to handle project financing in the coal and electricity
industries. SEIC is responsible for onlending funds for projects of national
importance and representing the Government in the joint financing of projects
with other parties; it is e-pected to operate as a revenue earning entity.
Petroleum and nuclear power --vestments are covered under separate corpora-
tions.  Both MOE and SEIC    z te with the guidance of the State Planning Com-
mission (SPC), which has ulti-..ate authority for project approval, budget allo-
catiors, and financing arrangemeats. Chart 2 shows the organization of SEIC.
Energv Investments
1.12      Energy investments in the 1980s were planned based on an expected
economic growth rate of 7.5 percent a year. However, actual economic growth
rates exceeded this target by an average of 2.5 percent a year (4.5 percent in
peak years). Also, industrial growth far exceeded what had been planned. The
discrepancy between projected and actual growth rates has exacerbated the
energy shortages that already existed at the start of the decade. China faces
an additional difficulty in developing its relatively abundant energy
resources, as many of the resources are located far from consumption areas and
must be transported over long distances at high cost. In recent years, the
Government has thus given priority to shifting resources into bottleneck sec-
tors such as energy and transport.
1.13      In 1989, China dedicated 3.4 percent and 1.3 percent of its Grose
National Product (GNP), respectively, to develop infrastructure for energy
production and transportation.  It invested a total of Y 44.6 billion ($12
billion) in energy supply, representing 29 percent of state capital construc-
tion. In the early 1980s, energy supply investments accounted for 21 percent
of state capital construction. The shares of power and petroleum investments
nave increased since 1988 to 62 percent and 22 percent, respectively. State
coal investment has declined (to 16 percent) but this decline has been offset
by an increase in investment by coal collectives. About 20 percent of the
investment requirements of the Chinese energy sector are met by foreign loans
and direct investments.
B. Energv Sector Issues
1.14      In addition to the already noted energy shortages, the main energy
sector issues are: (i) the high energy intensity of the Chinese economy;
(ii) the dominance of coal use and associated environmental problems;
(iii) the need to improve scale and technology in energy industries; (iv) the
inadequacy of energy pricing policies; and (v) the weak investment funding
system.



Lntensity of Enery _Use
1.15      China's consumpt4on of commercial energy per unit of economic output
is high compared with other countries. The high share of industrial output,
the structure of Chinese industry, the use of inefficient technology, and
inadequatc energy management practices are major factors that contribute to
this. Since the early 1980s, efforts to improve the efficiency of anergy use
have been a cornerstone of the Government's energy policy. During 1981-90,
China's energy intensity per ui';. uf GNP fell by about 30 percent in real
terms, and the elasticity of growth in energy use relative to GNP growtb -was
about 0.5. Nevertheless, further improvements in energy efriciency Vill be
critical. The Goverrment's economic growth and energy supply targets for the
1990s imply that only about one-half of the increased energy services required
will come from increased energy supplies, while the other half must come from
energy efficiency improvemente. This will require major progress in address-
ing entrenched structural and systemic issues, as well as yet stronger pro-
grams to upgrade inefficient technology and strengthen energy management.
The Dominance of Coal and Related Environmental Problems
1.16      Unlike the situation in mcst countries, the electric power subsector
is not the largest consumer of coal in China (about 25 percent of the total).
Industrial use of coal is much greater. The growth of coal consumption in the
household sector also has been strong, due to urban population growth and the
increasing use of coal in rural areas. Moreover, there is considerable latent
energy demand in the residential sector, primsrily for space heating, as pre-
sent heating arrangements meet only minimal needs.
1.17      Many of the environmental problems in China are related to the coun-
try's heavy use of coal and the dispersed, small scale application of coal in
industry and households. Environmental problems occur at every stage of the
coal chain: mining and disposal of mine waste, coal washing, transport and
handling, processing and combustion, and ultimately ash disposal. Water pol-
lution occurs both in mining regions and in dense urban areas, caused by prob-
lems in disposing of coal mining and processing wastes and the coal ash
remaining after combustion. In many large cities, ambient concentrations of
particulates and sulfur dioxide are very high. The concentration of particul-
ate& is the most serious problem; it is largely related to the extensive use
of coals, tLeir high ash content (20-30 percent), and the often incomplete
combustion due to poor matching of coal qualities to boilers used. The aver-
age sulfur content of the coal is relatively low (about 1.5 percent), but
because coal is used so extensively sulfur emissions are increasing.
1.18      The environmental implications of continued increases in coal use
are sobering. They highlight the need for stronger regulatory enforcement and
more resources devoted to investments to conserve coal and mitigate its envi-
ronmental effects. In addition, more resources should go to the exploration
ant. development of cleaner fuels. At the present time, China has limited
scope for substituting cleaner and often more cost effective fuels in indus-
trial and residential applications. The country has insufficient confirmed
natural gas resources; its production of oil is increasingly absorbed by
transport and petrochemicals; and large hydropower resources are located far
away from major consuming centers.



-5-
Scale and Technology in Energy Industries
1.19      Coal Subsector.  Over half of the coal produced in China comes from
small-scale mining operations which use traditional technologies such as hand
hewing or drilling and blasting. A major problem common to coal mines is
worker safety. China has considerable potential for developing medium-size
mines capable of supporting investments in semimechanized or mechanized sys-
tems, safety equipment, storage and handling systems, and washery plants, thus
reducing safety and environmental problems while improving the quantity and
quality of output. In the larger centrally-controlled mines, productivity and
safety could be increased by making greater use of mechanized long wall sys-
tems and employing more economic designs for mines antd washeries.
1.20      Electric Power Subsector.  Large-scale poaer development in China is
beneficial from the standpoint of both energy conservation and environmental
protection. Modern thermal power plants, with unit capacities of 300 MW and
600 MW, are about 20 percent more efficient than smaller plants and consume
about 150 grams of coal less per kWh. The boilers of the modern utilities
also support better pollution control equipment, raising the efficiency of
particulate removal.
1.21      Petroleum Subsector.  In the petroleum subsector, there is a need to
employ more modern equipment and technology at all stages of exploration and
development; seismic survey and related data processing, exploratory drilling,
and enhanced oil recovery in order to increase production from aging fields.
Improvements in operating and maintenance practices also are needed to
increase the erficiency of the subsector.
Energy Pricing
1L22      Energy prices have risen substantially in recent years.  Coal prices
have increased rapidly during the last five years, largely because the market
has expanded to as much as 50 percent of sales, depending on location.
Indeed, free market prices for coal in East China have equalized or exceeded
the level of international prices in recent years. The administered price of
coal, although it has been raised in recent years, is still below domestic
supply costs; just as importantly, the price structure does not fully reflect
differences in quality, such as calorific value and ash content.
1.23      While the average price levels of some light petroleum products are
close to international prices, average prices of crude oil and heavy fuel oil
are substantially lower. The pace of domestic oil price adjustments have
remained slow, while extraction costs have risen sharply. Producer prices for
natural Raa are also distorted and should be adjusted to provide an incentive
to find and develop more resources.
1.24      Electricity prices are largely based on tariffs which do not reflect
the differential cost of service arising from consumption during peak load
periods and power distribution at various voltage levels. Even though sub-
stantial progress was achieved in recent years, average rate levels still need
further adjustments to improve the contribution of the internal cash genera-
tion to the large investments of the subsector. In 1987/88, revenue enhance-
ments were introduced in order to improve cost recovery (notably, as regards



-6-
coal price increases). In particular, a "new plant, new price" policy guaran-
tees that power prices will be sufficient to allow the power entities tc fully
service the debt on newly commissioned projects which are mainly debt financed
whereas past investments were essentially financed by state grants. As a
result of this policy, electricity prices are rising substantially (paras.
2.13-2.15). But the multi-tier tariff system associated to the allocation of
the production of the new plants is extremely complex to manage and is gener-
ating considerable distortions in the tariff structure.
1.25      The recent increases in the price of coal and electricity are help-
ing to promote conservation and should positively influence investment and
operating decisions in the sector. However, the full benefits of these
actions will not be realized as long as a dual pricing system for energy is
not abandoned. Under this system, one set of prices applies to goods
allocated under the plan and another set of prices applies to goods
distributed by the market. Because allocated prices tend to be significantly
lower than free market prices, the system encourages consumers to use fuels
covered by allocated prices regardless of their suitability. Similarly, the
system encourages energy suppliers to focus on markets offering free market
prices and to negle:t the economically legitimate requirements of other mar-
kets which offer allocated prices. For example, the low prices for town gas
inhibit investments for supplying gas in forms suitable for household energy
(natural gas, coal-based gas, and process gas) in an environmentally sound
manner. The exiating price structure still does not provide all necessary
incentives for iv-'estmex4t to improve coal quality and for electricity consum-
ers to shift their demand to off-peak hours or to be connected to higher volt-
age.
1.26      In summary, China needs strong price incentives and rigorous
enforcement standards to encourage consumers to conserve energy. It must
continue its program to raise energy prices, close the gap between adminis-
tered and free market prices for coal, and begin to correct the distortions in
the pricing structures for coal, gas, and electricity. Energy price reform
based on full recovery of supply costs also will help to remove anomalies in
the funding of energy investments. The Government remains committed to its
overall price reform program.  For example, in the last year, the Government
has implemented significant price increases and reduced the subsidies in a
number of basic commodities, such as grains, cement, and steel. It also indi-
cated its readiness to abandon dual pricing in coal and electricity.
Investmenc Funding System
1.27      China has taken decisive steps recently in energy conservation,
environmental protection, and fuel diversification and, also, the share of
funds channeled into the energy sector is now approaching acceptable levels.
However, the funding of investments has suffered as a result of distorted
pricing policies that led to a compartmentalized mobilization of resources,
and an inefficient development of energy sources. To reduce financial pres-
sures on the central government, responsibility for funding of energy invest-
ments gradually has been shifting to the provinces, with mixed results. In
the coal subsector, local production now exceeds state production but is not
operating at the scale required to achieva highe- efficiency or improve
safety. Also, because of shortages in power supplies, some local enterprises



-7-
are making their own investments in less efficient small-scale power plants,
as these plants do not require clearanoe or any financial contribution by the
central government.
C. Energv Sector Strategy
1.28      The Government is working to eliminate energy shortages in an envi-
ronment of rapid economic growth, and its principal objectives in the energy
sector are to: (a) accelerate the expansion of electric power and oil/gas
production; (b) expand and improve the scale of coal production; (c) increase
the efficiency and change the forms of coal utilization; (d) minimize the
environmental impact of energy use; (e) rationalize energy prices and invest-
ment funding; and (f) encourage the transfer of modern know-how and technology
in energy industries.
1.29      Allowing the power subsector a larger share in final energy consump-
tion will help to modernize the Chinese economy, reduce overall energy inten-
sities, and curtail pollution through the harnessing of hydropower, more effi-
cient technologies, and larger-scale plants. The same holds true for the oil
and natural gas subsectors, both of which yield cleaner, more efficient fuels
than coal. The continued development of coal mining is an inescapable neces-
sity in China, but it must occur under conditions of higher efficiency,
safety, and environmental acceptability.
D. Bank Role in the Enerzv Sector
1.30      The Bank has supported 10 projects in electric power, 5 in petroleum
(including one gas project), and one in coal. In all three subsectors, the
objectives have been to support technology transfer, modern managemeni prac-
tices, and the development of efficient, large-scale energy production.
Through its sector work and project-related technical assistance, the Bank has
assisted in studies to enhance improvements in energy pricing and investment
policies. The power-specific aspects of the Government's strategy and the
role of the Bank are covered in paras. 2.17-2.19.
1.31      With the Bank's assistance, the Chinese have made good progress in
evaluating the economic costs of electric power and coal and in suggesting
approaches for gradual price reform. With regard to electricity, long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) and target tariffs were established for East China in
1988. Since then, the Bank has sponsored the formulation of tariff action
plans and adapted them to the specific conditions of regional power grids. An
action plan for power pricing reform in Shandong is included under the pro-
posed project (para. 5.15). For coal, the Chinese have set pricing guidelines
for various types of coal nationwide, but the Government still needs to move
decisively along these lines. Plans for a large increase in administered coal
prices are still active and the Bank continues to promote the rationalization
of the level and structure of coal prices, with special attention to the most
sensitive coal users.
1.32      Coal Transport and Utilization studies, conducted jointly by the
Bank and various Chinese institutes, have developed a model to identify opti-
mal investments in infrastructure to move coal more efficiently, and evaluated
options to imp:ove coal use and reduce its environmental impact.  In regard to



-8-
the petroleum subsector, seminars have been organized in China on gas utiliza-
tion and petroleum subsector management. Improving the planning of invest-
ments and operations for the power subsector has been the focus of many Bank-
sponsored activities (paras. 2.11 and 2.18). An Energy Conservation Study
also is under way as part of the Bank's sector work, which will outline
options and priorities to address the energy efficiency issues faced by China
in the 1990s (para. 1.15). The study is broad in scope, covering macroecono-
mic policy and investment issues. This study is intended to provide a basis
for an expanded dialogue with the government on energy efficiency, and a yet
stronger Bank assistance program, in part through further assistance on energy
conservation in the Bank's program for industry.
1.33      Future Bank operations in the energy sector will continue to support
rational energy development and technology transfer, price reform, energy
efticiency and conservation, and improved environmental management. Through
both project and sector work, the Bank continues to encourage policies which
provide the proper incentives for sustainable energy development and conserva-
tion. Finally, the Bank will continue to promote modern enterprise manage-
ment, greater autonomy and accountability, as well as improvements in the
regulatory framework of the sector.



-9-
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.1       China is the fourth largest producer of electricity in the world.
In 1990, the country had a total installed capacity of 135.0 GW, 74 percent
based on thermal power and 26 percent based on hydropower. That same year it
generated 618 TWh of electricity, of which 492 TWh was from thermal. Plant
use and high-voltage network losses accounted for 6.9 and 8.0 percent of gen-
eration, respectively. Fuel consumption in thermal plants has been reduced to
about 400 grams of standard coal per kWh. Power is mostly distributed through
16 major grids, 13 of which account for about 90 percent of total capacity.
By the end of 1990, the total length of the extra high voltage transmission
lines reached 7,302 km and the capacity of substations amounted to 20.7 GVA.
2.2       The Government's rural electrification policy emphasizes the devel-
opment of local energy resources. Therefore, as much as possible, mini hydro-
power development is encouraged in isolated areas. In 1989, mini-hydro, small
thermal, and diesel generating sets had a total installed capacity of 19 GW.
Mini-hydro plants alone had a capacity of 12.4 GW and an annual generation of
34.3 TWh. Approximately 94 percent of townships and 85 percent of villages
are electrified.
2.3       The growth of installed capacity, electricity generation, and sales
since 1949 is depicted in Annex 1. Annex 2 shows the historical trend of
electricity generation, primary energy demand, and the GNP. The target of
quadrupling the GNP between 1980 and the year 2000 should result in average
growth of 7 percent a year for power demand. On this basis, the Ten-Year
Program for National Economic and Social Development (1991-2000) calls for an
increase in generating capacity to 240,000 MW from 135,000 MW, and electricity
gene:ation to 1,200 TWh from 615 TWh. Large thermal power stations are being
constructed mainly near ports and major coal mines. Major hydroelectric sta-
tions are planned at the middle and upper reaches of the valleys of the
Yangtze River and Hongshui River. A 500 kV transmission network is being
built to integrate regional grids.
2.4       In 1990, China consumed 525 TWh of electricity; 69.4 percent was
consumed by industry, 17.3 percent by agriculture including rural household,
2.0 percent by transportation/communications, and 11.3 percent by municipal
and residential users. Details of electricity consumption by sectors are
given in Annex 3. Electricity consumption per capita in 1990 reached 550'kWh;
average household use was about 85 kWh in cities and 20 kWh in rural areas.
2.5       Between 1986 and 1990, electricity demand increased faster than
generating capacity, and power shortages reached about 20 percent of indus-
trial electricity requirements, which translated into the idling of industrial
capacity for one or two days a week. Electricity is still allocated through
quotas based on priorities set by authorities and demands for new connections
are closely screened. The rapid growth of demand can be attributed both to
the very high economic growth and to the increasing share of electricity in
commercial energy requirements: 13 percent in 1970, 18 percent in 1980, pos-
sibly 27 percent by the year 2000. Since 1986, residential and transportation



- 10 -
showed the highest growth rates: 20 percent for residential uses due to
income growth, and 19 percent for transportation due to railway electrifica-
tion. The manufacturing sector is already a large electricity consumer and is
expected to maintain its share in the future. Notwithstanding concerted
efforts at energy conservation, the growth of power supply should not be
allowed to fall behind GNP growth. A faster pace of power system development
would be justified in order to accelerate the retirement of the less efficient
and more polluting small coal-fired plants.
B. Institutions. Planning and Technologv Transfer
2.6       Institutions.  MOE oversees all strategic aspects of power develop-
ment (para. 1.10), including five regional power administrations which coordi-
nate the operations of the power systems and prepare long-term development
programs for the approval of MOE. Under the regional administrations, there
are 19 provincial and municipal power bureaus and 8 other bureaus which oper-
ate in isolation. A number of investigation and design institutions are
affiliated with MOE, as are the 16 construction companies involved primarily
in building power projects. Several universities, colleges, and research and
training centers also fall under the auspices of MOE.
2.7       The Huaneng International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) was
created in 1985 as a financing arm of the former MWREP. It was designed to
attract foreign capital and technology for power generating plants located
mainly in the open cities of the coast. HIPDC has a mandate to raise funds
directly from the iiiternational financial market, and it has been active in
tapping bilateral and suppliers' credits, and commercial bank loans. As a
result, the power subsector in China has claimed a significant share of the
country's external financing in recent years (Annex 4).
2.8       Separate corporations also have been created for developing major
hydroelectric schemes. These new institutional arrangements are beneficial
because such corporationis are allowed to maximize their efficiency through
specialization and economies of scale and to reinvest their earnings into
future power development.
2.9       The power industry in China employs about 1.8 million people.  Of
these employees, fewer than 30 percent have received formal education beyond
the junior secondary level. As a result, there is a shortage of trained man-
power, particularly trained technical and administrative staff. MOE has ini-
tiated a long-term program to upgrade the skills of the staff at all levels.
The program is carried out primarily by the provincial power bureaus and
regional power administrations. The training component of the proposed proj-
ect is designed to support the MOE program and assist in developing manpower
to meet the project's human resource needs (para. 3.6).
2.10      Power System Planning.  Overall power system planning in China is
the responsibility of the Planning Department of MOE, which reviews the plans
proposed by the regional power administrations and bureaus. For the expansion
of thermal power plants and transmission networks, the research, planning and
designs are carried out by the regional electric power design institutes. For
major hydroelectric projects, the research, planning, and design are carried



- 11 -
out by the regional hydroelectric investigation and design institutes and the
MOE's Water Resources and Hydropower Planning Institute.
2.11      As planning for China's power development becomes increasingly com-
plex, there is a compelling need for Chinese planners to adopt state-of-the-
art system planning technlques. These techniques are particularly important
for evaluating large-scale projects which have long lead times and for making
decisions about generation mix, power plant location, and grid configuration.
Least-cost generation planning techniques were first introduced for thermal
generation in East China through technical assistance from the International
Atomic Energy Agency.I/ Under the Planning Support and Special Studies Proj-
ect (Credit 1835-CHA), least cost planning techniques were applied for hydro-
electric generation and transmission network expansion plans for the Sichuan
and East China power systems. Training in the use of these techniques has
been provided to staff of the concerned power bureaus and the Water Resources
and Electric Power Economic Research Institute (WREPERI). These staff, in
turn, are now able to assist other power bureaus and regional power adminis-
trations.
2.12      Modern Technology Transfer.  For China to achieve its ambitious
goals for increasing power production, the development or transfer of appro-
priate modern technologies will be crucial. Technology transfer is very
important for thermal power plants, where increases in the steam parameters
and size of units can reduce net fuel consumption. Since thermal generation
from coal-fired units is expected to provide about three quarters of total
generation until the end of the century, reducing the amount of fuel consumed
for power generation would reduce pressures on both the supply and transport
of coal, as well as on the environment. The Bank is helping to provide state-
of-the-art technology for the construction and operation of large coal-fired
units (300 MW and 600 MW), including environmental assessments and impact
mitigation. Technology transfer is also needed for large hydroelectric proj-
ects, particularly in connection with the interpretation of geological data,
the design of sophisticated structures and large underground works, the selec-
tion of equipment, efficient construction management, and environmental
assessments. Assistance in technology transfer is being provided under ongo-
ing projects and will be continued under the proposed project (paras. 5.9-
5.12).
C. Power Pricing
2.13      China's current electricity pricing system has evolved from reforms
begun :Ln the mid-1980s and strengthened during the last three years. Prices
currently faced by consumers represent a complex combination of "old" rates,
based on the tariff structure of 1976, "new" rates for the energy generated by
new plants, and surcharges, which are basically designed to improve cost
recovery. Customer contributions are also used to finance a large portion of
distribution networks. Electricity prices have increased significantly since
1985. A key component of the increase of the "old" rates has been the addi-
tion of a new surcharge to reflect annual coal prices increases; other mark-
ups have also been allowed to reflect other cost increases such as higher
1/ Under the Bank's Second Power Project (Loan 2493-CHA).



- 12 -
costs of overhauls.  Coal price mark-ups became an important component of the
"old" rates, particularly since 1989. In North, Northeast, and East China,
standard mark-ups ranged from 5 to 7.2 fen/kWh in 1990.  The key component of
recent tariff policy has been the "new plant, new prices" policy. Under this
policy, prices for energy provided by new plants, which are largely debt
financed, are aet at significantly higher rates to adequately cover debt ser-
vice. These new rates, or guiding prices, are applied to industrial users for
consumption above quota, under a multitier tariff system. New energy rates
generally range from 20 to 30 fen/kWh, well above the old rates. Addition-
ally, a surcharge of 2 fen/kWh was introduced as part of the 1987/88 reforms;
it is collected with the bills of industrial users, but transferred to provin-
cial Power Construction Funds.
2.14      As the role of the "new rates" increases with system expansion, the
combined average rates continue to increase. However, there remain consider-
able distortions in the structure of electricity prices. Further, the pre-
vailing system is far too complicated, and not sufficiently transparent. The
low "old" tariff to many customers provides little incentive for efficiency
improvement, while incremental consumption and new industrial customers are
charged at a level which may exceed LRMC. The GOC has made commitments to
confront these issues. It has announced its intention to unify old and new
system rates into single, more transparent tariffs, and has taken concrete
measures in this direction. Introduction of peak/off-peak and seasonal rates
has been expanding. The Govermnent also is eliminating certain preferential
prices which have existed for some heavy industries.
2.15      The Bank is engaged in a very active dialogue with the Government on
the topic of power pricing. The financial covenants under Bank-financed pro-
jects have long supported improvements in power price levels, and collabora-
tive work on tariffs is now reinforcing the corrective actions already taken
by GOC to adjust prices. In a specific effort to support a systematic over-
haul of power prices by the Government, the Bank financed a study covering
East China under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA). The
primary recommendations of this study--notably to bring tariffs more in line
with economic marginal costs--are gaining broad acceptance and are being used
in formulating specific pricing reforms for power systems with predominantly
coal-fired generation. MOE and the State Pricing Administration have recently
formulated a policy for the next five years which addresses the issues dis-
cussed above focusing on the following: (i) continued increases of tariff
level to improve the internal cash generation; (ii) gradual unification of
rates within each region; (iii) phasing out of preferential tariffs;
(iv) improvement of tariff structure in relation to maximum demand charge; and
(v) extended use of time-of-day rates, and of seasonal rates in predominantly
hydro regions. A specific power pricing study is included in this proposed
project. This study should lead to the detailed design and subsequent imple-
mentation of a concrete action program to gradually improve the tariff struc-
ture in the Shandong Province (para. 5.15)
D. Subsector Issues and Strategv
2.16      China faces the following major issues in the power subsector:
(i) acute power shortages; (ii) inadequate power pricing and investment fund-
ing; (iii) protracted implementation periods for large projects; (iv) environ-



- 13 -
mental impacts of power supply; (v) weak interconnection within regional power
systems; (vi) scarcity of skilled manpower; and (vii) outdated methods for
planning, operation, and financial management.
2.17      The Government's policy for the power subsector is to modernize it,
expand it, and increase its officiency at a rate sufficient to meet the
requirements of industrial development and improve the living conditions of
the population. This policy translates into the following objectives:
(a) expand coal-fired thermal capacity at mine-mouths or near ports and load
centera in order to reduce the rail transportation requirements and use of
lower grade coal in urban centers; (b) replace small- and medium-size thermal
units with larger, less polluting, and more efficient units; (c) accelerate
the pace of hydroelectric development; (d) construct extra high-voltage trans-
mission lines; (e) introduce a more rational pricing system; and (f) adopt
modern techniques in system planning, project design and environmental impact
mitigation.
E. Role of the Bank in the Power Subsector
2.18      The Bank's participation in the power subsector in China has partic-
ularly focused on institution building, enterprise reform and the transfer of
appropriate modern technology. The Bank has supported the Government'L sec-
toral strategy through sector work, policy dialogue, and a series of lending
operations in association with the regional power bureaus. The Bank has
helped to introduce state-of-the-art system planning methodologies which iden-
tify cost-effective, sustainable development policies for the power subsector.
New power projects allow the Bank to assist the Government in applying power
tariff reforms based on the findings of earlier pricing studies (para. 2.15).
Through the Second Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2955-CHA), the Bank
is extending its policy dialogue to cover the reorganization, management, and
regulation of power bureaus.
2.19      The Bank has helped to finance nine large power generation projects
(600 MW - 3,300 MW)--4 thermal and 5 hydro operations--and one high-voltage
transmission project. Through these operations, the Bank has successfully
(i) introduced international competitive bidding (ICB) for civil works and
equipment; (ii) supported the transfer of modern technology in project con-
struction and management; (iii) helped to improve the efficiency of pollution
abatement equipment; (iv) promoted the integration of regional power systems;
(v) supported the development of master plans for modern distribution net-
works; and (vi) promoted operational efficiency and prudent financial manage-
ment. Under the Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC), the Bank assisted in
supervising and reviewing a feasibility study for the Three Gorges Project.
2.20      Most of the power projects financed by the Bank are being imple-
mented in a satisfactory manner, on schedule, and within budget. The first
power operation, Lubuge Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA), was success-
fully completed. The 500 kV Xuzhou-Shanghai Transmission Project (Loan 2493-
CHA), was put into service, as scheduled. The Yantan Hydroelectric Project
(Loan 2707-CHA) is progressing satisfactorily. Several problems were encoun-
tered early in the implementation of -he Shuikou Hydroelectric Project (Loan
2775-CHA): project management was w.ak, And the original Government alloca-
tion was too low to cover large cost x..zreases associated with the resettle-



- 14 -
ment component. In order to resolve these problems, the Bank agreed to revise
the loan allocation for resettlement and project management was strengthened.
The constructior of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-CRA) and the
Daguangba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-CHA and Credit 2305-CHA) started
successfully. Furthermore, the Bank is involved in financing four thermal
power projects--Beilungang (Loan 2706-CHA), Wujing (Loan 2852-CHA), Beilungang
Extension (Loan 2955-CHA) and Yanshi (Loan 3433-CHA). Some of the thermal
power projects encountered delays early on due to procurement problems and
poor coordination among the suppliers of various islands. These problems have
now been resolved, and construction is almost back on schedule.
2.21      The lessons learned from the previous power projects in China have
been taken into account in preparing the proposed project. These lessons
include: (i) improving procurement and contractual arrangements; and
(ii) enhancing the role of project management and the use of engineering con-
sultants. Particular attention was given to the environmental aspects of the
projects.
2.22      The Bank's support for the proposed project will ensure the timely
implementation of generation and transmission facilities urgently needed to
supply power requirements. Through this project, the Bank will be able to
cooperate for the first time with a provincial power bureau in Shandong Prov-
ince and help to strengthen its capabilities for tariff reform, investment
programming, and financial planning.



- 15 -
III. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1       The beneficiary of the proposed loan is SPEPB.  This would be the
first Bank loan to be onlent to SPEPB.
A. Legal Status and Organization of SPEPB
(a) Legal Status
3.2       SPEPB is a public enterprise operating under the direction of MOE.
It is a legal entity with contractual and self-accounting capabilities and is
responsible for executing the state program for power generation, capital
investment, power sales and tariffs, employment and payroll, and tax and
profit remittances to the state. It is also entrusted, by Shandong Province,
with supervising the management of and issuing technical instructions to the
public electric power erterprises which are outside SPEPB's jurisdiction. A
charter for SPEPB has been issued which is acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Organization
3.3       SPEPB is headed by a Director who is appointed by NOE.  Under the
Director there are four Deputy Directors, accountable for, respectively:
(i) capital construction and administration of power plants and utilities;
(ii) production, power supply, load dispatching and environmental protection;
(iii) administration, including rural electrification, education, training and
general affairs; and (iv) management, including finance, audits, labor and
wages. In addition, the Director is assisted by a Chief Economist, Chief
Engineer, and Chief Accountant. Operations are carried out through a number
of units engaged in power generation, transmission, power supply, construc-
tion, manufacture and repair. The organization structure of SPEPB is pre-
sented in Chart 3.
B. Management
3.4       Recent performance indicators for the Shandong Power Grid (SPG)
,Annex 5) reveal high plant capacity factors and low transmission and distri-
bution losses. The employee-per-customer ratio is low, the kWh sale per
employee is reasonable. SPEPB prepares accounting information in a timely
fashion (para. 3.13) and operates an effective billing and collection system
(para. 3.23). The successful upgrading of management systems and procedures,
and the strengthening of financial planning deserve special attention (paras.
3.8-3.13). The central government used to maintain strict control over the
power subsector. As the institutional framework becomes less centralized and
the power bureaus receive greater financial autonomy and responsibility for
decision-making, SPEPB must prepare itself to manage this transition. The
proposed project includes specific training in utility management and finan-
cial planning for this purpose (para. 5.17 and Annex 17).
3.5       SPEPB is capable of formulating its own expansion program and imple-
menting medium-size thermal projects (100-300 MW) by itself. However, for a
large project such as the one proposed, outside assistance will be required



- 16 -
for the preparation of bid documents, bid evaluation, and contract negotia-
tions (paras. 5.9-5.10).
C. Staffing and Training
3.6       SPEPB is understaffed in engineering and technical work, and over-
staffed in semiskilled and unskilled work. As of December 31, 1990, the
bureau had a total staff of 61,240. Of the total about 10.2 percent were
college graduates, 22.0 percent graduates of polytechnic institutes, 19.1 per-
cent senior high school graduates, and 48.7 percent junior high school gradu-
ates. Except for the core group of key technical and managerial personnel who
are assigned by the state, almost all of SPEPB's employees are recruited
locally. Most of the employees also are hired on a permanent basis, except
for laborers contracted for construction. SPEPB has 15 divisions and offices
in its headquarters and 49 outside units (Annex 6).
3.7       The Education Division of SPEPB runs three technical schools for
skilled workers, one school for technicians, and one staff college. This
training capacity is not sufficient to meet SPEPB's long-term needs; currently
it satisfies only about 45 percent of the bureau's annual training require-
ments. The skills of teaching staff and quality of teaching facilities need
to be upgraded and modernized. Training should be designed to help senior
managerial and technical staff adapt to the new situations brought about by
larger units, and a larger power grid. The training component included in the
proposed project is designed to meet these needs. It covers upgrading and
equipping of SPEPB's technical schools and project-related training for tech-
nical staff (paras. 5.16-5.20 and Annex 17).
D. Planninm. Budaeting and Control
3.8       The evolution of systems for planning, budgeting, and controlling
China's power bureaus is discussed in detail in Annex 7. In brief, all power
bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-year production and
investment plans which are integrated into the national plans and are
approved, through MOE's and SEIC's auspices, by SPC. In the past, these plans
have emphasized the planning of quantities of intputs and outputs. Financial
olanning was confined to attaching monetary values, predetermined by MOE, to
the quantities being planned. Although a power bureau's plan might be revised
to reflect changes arising from changed or unforeseen circumstances, it would
ordinarily not be revised to reflect differences between estimated priees and
actual prices. This planning system functioned effectively in an environment
where prices were controlled and were relatively free of inflation and where
investments were financed almost exclusively by grants.
3.9       However, with the economic changes of the early 19809, prices have
begun to move toward market levels and the government has begun to finance
more investments through loans rather than grants. Centralized control is
being relaxed and replaced by greater financial autonomy and responsibilities
for the power bureaus. To address these changes, SPEPB will need to adjust
its planning system to include financial plarning.
3.10      MOE and SEIC recognize the importance of financial management in the
power subsector in Chine and are organizing a comprehensive training program



- 17 -
for all the power bureaus under their control. MOE has already started pro-
viding many of the power bureaus with computers and software for automated
planning, budgeting, and control accounting functions. Information from the
bureaus can be transferred to MOE and consolidated into regional and national
data.
3.11      The new systems represent a good first generation of automated man-
agement information; however, they still are not sufficiently flexible to take
into account price changes at the local level or those associated with large-
scale debt service obligations. Currently MOE and SEIC, with assistance from
the Bank, manage a number of seminars in China and overseas. These seminars
cover the computer-based management information system as well as tariffs,
cost control, project financing, comparative accounting systems (Chinese vs.
western), and the ,rganization and structure of financial management. Through
these seminars and training the Bank is discussing with MOE and SEIC the
desirability of developing a second generation of automated information.
3.12      Whlle a second-generation management information system is being
considered, MOE has agreed to introduce a simple financial planning system in
power bureaus implementing Bank-financed projects. Assurances were obtained
from SPEPB that. by April 30 of each year commencing in 1993. SPEPB would
furnish to the Bank a rollin& eight-vear financial plan containina Droiected
income statements, statements of sources and uses of funds, and balance
sheets.
E. Accounting
3.13      Each of SPEPB's operating units maintains financial accounts which
are consolidated with those of all other SPEPB operating units. The units
prepare accounting information in a timely fashion each month; headquarters
compiles consolidated accounts monthly, quarterly and annually. Accounts for
all units are prepared on an accrual basis using a double entry system and
following a unified Chinese accounting system. The Ministry of Finance (MOF)
establishes the regulations governing the presentation of financial accounts
for all sectors. These regulations take the form of prescribed accounting
methods and procedures, forms of account, and procedures for depreciation and
distribution of net income, taxation, and allocations to and use of proceeds
from Special Funds. MOF reviews the regulations and corresponding accounting
standards on a regular basis. These regulations and standards are supple-
mented by detailed implementation procedures issued by MOE.
3.14      SPEPB has a large accounting staff who are well trained in maintain-
ing ledgers, compiling accounts according to standards, and using historical
data. However, as SPEPB introduces more sophisticated financial management
practices, its staff will have to learn computerized management techniques
involving the analysis of financial and cost accounting data for decision-
making. For this purpose the proposed project includes a technical assistance
component for training in utility management and financial planning (para.
5.17 and Annex 17).



- 18 -
Fixed Asset Accounting
3.15      SPEPB has five construction units.  These units are responsible for
constructing its power plants, erecting transmission and distribution facili-
ties, and implementing asset renovations. Accounts for construction units
which primarily manage construction are consolidated with those of SPEPB's
operating units. Accounts for construction units which function primatily as
contractors for the bureau are handled separately.  Since most of the major
new assets are being financed with loans issued directly to SPEPB, SPEPB will
remit progress payments to those construction units functioning as contrac-
tors. SPEPB's future accounts therefore should properly reflect the value of
maajor new assets under construction.
Revaluation of Fixed Assets
3.16      The Chinese financial system does not employ the concept of revalu-
ating fixed assets. In the past, the revaluation of assets would not have a
major impact on SPEPB's financial status because of low inflation over most of
the last 4U years and the low foreign content of the bureau's existing assets.
However, as incipient changes take place in the structure of prices due to
recent inflation, revaluation of assets will become more important. Since the
adoption of a revaluation policy would have impacts beyond the power sector,
it will not be addressed solely in the context of the proposed project.
Instead, this subject will become a component of the continuing policy dia-
logue between the Bank and GOC. In the meantime, a pro forma revaluation was
conducted during appraisal of the proposed project.
F. Audit
(a) External Audit
3.17      Before 1982, the financial statements of organizations in China were
not subject to comprehensive audit. When China's new constitution was rati-
fied in September 1983, a State Audit Administration (SAM) was established and
given the status of a ministry reporting directly to the State Council.  In
addition, provincial audit bureaus are being established in each province and
municipality (large cities). The audit regulations and standards prepared by
MOF are based on international auditing practices and were promulgatod by the
State Council on October 21, 1988.
3.18      To date, audits of Bank-financed projects have been conducted by
SAM's Foreign Investment Audit Bureau or one of the Provincial Audit Bureaus
(PAB) under its guidance. The audits have focused on enterprises with foreign
participation in the form of equity or loan financing. SAM and PAB have been
receiving training through the TCC financed by Bank.
3.19      Under the proposed project, SPEPB's annual accounts will be audited
by SAA. This arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained from
SPEPB that it would furnish the Bank with annual financial statements. certi-
fied by auditors acceptable to the Bank. within six months of the end of each
fiscal year commencing in 1993.



19 -
(b) Internal Audit
3.20      SPEPB recently has developed an internal auditing section (staffed
with chartered accountants) which periodically will examine the accounts of
each operating unit. The objective of these examinations is primarily to test
for accuracy and compliance with MOF regulations. The internal auditing sec-
tion is not expected to review the appropriateness of accounting regulations
or procedures; such reviews are considered to be the responsibility of MOF and
MOE. However, the section will serve as liaison between external auditors and
the project entity. The Bank will review the internal auditing function dur-
ing project implementation with a view toward increasing its efficiency and
usefulness to SPEPB. The first SAM audit of SPEPB for FY91 is expected to
include a review and commentary on SPEPB's controls and internal audit.
G. Electricity Tariffs
3.21      The average revenue per kWh collected by SPEPB increased by abouw
74 percent between 1985 and 1990, when it reached 12.7 fen/kWh.l/ This
change reflects the application of the surcharge for increases in coal prices,
and the increasing weight of the debt service of new plants included in the
tariff under the "new plant, new price" policy. Yet, the tariff level is
still too low to provide a good level of self-financing to SPEPB. Financial
projections (para. 6.9) indicate the need for an increase of about 27 percent
in real terms between 1990 and 1995 to reach a self-financing ratio of 30 per-
cent, the agreed financial covenant; the tariff level would be then close to
the estimated average incremental cost.2/ SPEPB's tariff structure is based
on the five standard categories used in China: lighting, small industry and
commerce (non-lighting uses), large industry, agriculture, and bulk sales.
The tariff for large industry includes a demand charge (per kW) levied on the
consumer's peak demand (or transformer capacity); other tariffs include only
energy rates. Average rates by category are shown in Annex 8. They range
from 11.3 fen/kWh for agriculture, to 17.9 fen/kWh for low-voltage lighting
and household uses. Industrial and commercial consumers also pay connection
charges to cover the costs of dedicated substations and distribution lines.
Residential customers pay for their own meters and internal wiring. In 1991,
SPEPB reformed the multitier tariff as applied in Shandong previously, and
applied single unified rates to each customer category, with, for historical
reasons, a differentiation by region; SPEPB is now studying the unification of
rates across the entire province, which would be a further improvement.
Still, SPEPB's calculation of the tariff remains based on a complex combina-
tion of various tariffs and surcharges for old and new plants. SPEPB's tariff
structure should be improved to better reflect the structare of costs of sup-
ply of the various types of load, and to increase incentives for a better load
management. This involves increasing demand charges (unchanged since 1976),
introducing time-of-day pricing, and applying adequate differentiation accord-
1J   The average revenue of SPEPB includes bulk sales, and excludes surcharges
such as the 2 fen/kWh for the Pro'incial Power Construction fund intro-
duced in 1988.
2/   With a price of coal stable in real terms at Y 151/t in 1991 and there-
after, which is close to the economic cost based on LRMC.



- 20 -
ing to voltage level of supply. Under the proposed project, SPEPB has agreed
to carry out a tariif study and an action plan to improve its tariff structure
(para. 5.15),  The main objectives of this action plan are based on the find-
ings of tile East China Power Pricing Study, which are broadly applicable to
Shandong. Yet, tailoring target rates and implementation program to the case
of Shandong requires a specific study (Annex 15), SPEPB and WREPERI have
initiated satisfactorily their work on this study.
H. Billing and Collections
3.22      As of December 31, 1990, SPEPB sales were distributed according to
the consumer categories shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF SPEPB CONSUMPTION
(As of December 31, 1990)
Customer category              Consumption (GWh)     S
Large industrial users             20,587           59.0
Ordinary and comercial users        5,288           15.1
Agriculture and rural users         6,992           20.0
Residential (lighting) users        1,420            4.1
Other users                           635            1.8
Total                          34.922          100.0
3.23      SPEPB conducts its billing and collection activities through twelve
power supply unite.  All major industrial consumers receiving supply over 320
kVA are charged in advance three times per month at approximate ten-day inter-
vals. The last two bills, rendered on about the fifteenth and twenty-fifth
days of the month, are based on estimated usage derived from the consumer's
contractual power consumption. The first bill, rendered on about the fifth
day of the month, is also based on estimated usage but includes an adjustment
to reflect the previous month' actual usage as computed from a meter reading.
All other customers are billed once a month based on actual usage.
3.24      Most rural communities receive bulk power directly from SPEPB; they,
in turn, distribute it for agricultural, light industrial, and low voltage
consumption within their jurisdictions. SPEPB measures these sales at its
step-dawn transformer serving the rural community--normally at 35 kV. All
consumption at higher and lower voltage levels within agricultural communities
is metered.
3.25      Industrial, commercial and bulk consumers pay their bills through
direct debit from their Dank accounts. Urban residential and low voltage
agricultural consumers receiving power directly from SPEPE render payments to
local branches of the National Bank. Payment is due within three to five days
of receipt of the bill. Regulations stipulate that consumers who do not pay
within this period are to be charged a fine of 0.03 percent per day of delay,
and that after several notices those who still refuse to pay their bills are
to be disconnected from the power supply.  Because this regulation is strictly



- 21 -
enforced, consumers rarely allow themselves to fall into arrears. Consumers
also are required to pay for reconnection charges. The power supply bureaus
are required to forward to SPEPB their monthly bill collections before the
seventh day of the next month. These arrangements have established a reliable
cash flow from sales and have brought SPEPB's accounts receivable from current
power sales down to fairly low levels. At the end of 1990 they were less than
Y 2 million on sales of Y 4.4 billion, which is very satisfactory.
I. Insurance
3.26      Agencies such as the People's Insurance Company of C=4.ns are now
available in China providing commercial coverages. SPEPB's current insurance
covers assets, vehicles and public liability, and is considered satisfactory.
J. Rural Electrification
3.27      Shandong is one of the provinces in China where the rural electrifi-
cation program is the furthest advanced. Out of 89,899 villages in Shandong
in 1990, about 94 percent already have been electrified. Of the 19,256,700
households in rural areas, about 85 percent are enjoying electricity service.
These households are mostly located in remote areas or on offshore islands.
K. Distribution System
3.28      SPEPB's primary distribution system operates at the 1 kV, 10 kV, and
35 kV voltage levels. Unfortunately, the power shortages in China have
focused attention on generation and transmission projects at the 110 kV level
and above. Extensions to the distribution network have been the responsibil-
ity of municipal or local government, and this activity often has been
neglected due to lack of funds.
3.29      SPEPB sells a large percentage of its power in bulk to industrial,
agricultural, and rural consumers, and the losses in their systems normally
are not reflected in SPEPB losses. sFEPB estimates that its system losses
alone have been averaging about 11.9 percent.
3.30      Since 1983, SPEPB has taken steps to reduce the distribution losses
of the bulk-supplied networks in county areas. The major step was to require
that distribution losses in each of these networks be reduced to less than
10 percent; otherwise power supply to the network would be curtailed propor-
tionately. Other measures includes: (a) replacing the two-wire systems with
three wires; (b) rationalizing transformer capacity; (c) using larger-size
conductors; and (d) setting aside 30 percent of the County Power Bureau's
revenue for a rural electrification fund, to be used for extending and improv-
ing distribution networks in the rural area. As a result of these measures,
losses in these bulk-supplied networks have been reduced to between 6 percent
and 10 percent, averaging 8.5 percent. In 1990, these losses amounted to
2 percent of total generation.



- 22 -
IV. THE POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. The Shandonx Power Grid
4.1       The province of SAandong had a population of about 84.4 million in
1990.  At that time its power system had a total installed capacity of
8,135 MW, of which 8,088 MW (99.4 percent) was thermal and only 47 MW
(0.6 percent) was hydro. The generating facilities include 15 thermal power
plants, of which seven are more than 600 MW in capacity, as described in
Annex 9. There are another 157 local and captive plants totalling 1,199 MW in
capacity, ranging in size from 500 kW to 50 MW.
4.2       In 1990, the province generated a total of 44,543 GWh of electri-
city. SPEPB plants generated 40,041 GWh, or 90 percent of the total, and
local and captive plants generated "he remaining 10 percent. Thermal power
generation accounted for 44,502 GWh, of which 87.2 percent coal-based and 12.8
percent oil-based.
4.3       The transmission system in Shandong in 1990 consisted of 600.8 km of
500 kV lines, 4,512.7 km of 220 kV lines, and 7,722.2 km of 110 kV lines.
SPEPB owned and operated all of the 500 kV lines and most of the 220 kV and
110 kV lines. The system also includes about 300 step-down substations, with
a total capacity of 18,000 MVA.
4.4       The growth of peak demand and energy requirements on the Shandong
Power Grid (SPG) between 1983 and 1990 is shown in Table 4.1. SPG peak demand
has increased more rapidly than energy requirements. The system has a maximum
daily load factor of about 92.3 percent and an annual load factor of
75.6 percent. The peak load usually occurs in December.
Table 4.1: LOAD GROWTH ON SHANDONG POWER GRID
Year             Energy requirement /a (GWh)   Peak demand (MW)
1983                    20,371                2,675
1984                    22,274                3,110
1985                    24,872                3,261
1986                    28,442                3,946
1987                    31,225                4,420
1988                    34,960                4,810
1989                    37,162                5,300
1990                    40,041                6,248
Average annual growth    10.11                12.9%
/a Including generation and purchased energy.
4.5       In 1990, electricity consumption of the province accounted for
37,984 GWh; industry, 74.9 percent; agriculture, 9.1 percent; residential,
commercial and other municipal customers in the cities, 14.7 percent; and the
transport/telecommunication sector, 1.3 percent. Details on the electricity
consumed in Shandong between 1985 and 1990 are shown in Annex 10.



- 23 -
B. Load Forecast
4.6       Load forecasts for the year 1991 through 2000 were developed as part
of the economic planning process carried out by SPEPB. The forecasts were
obtained by applying a combination of statistical methods and planning targets
to every major consumer category. In particular, industrial loads were esti-
mated on the basis of a market survey and on the projected industrial output
growth and electricity intensities for different categories of industry.
Rural loads were estimated based on past trends for drainage and irrigation,
rural industries loads, and lighting. Municipal loade were estimated based on
market surveys of hotels, buildings, and government projects. The results of
the forecasts are summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST FOR SHANDONG POWER GRID
Year               Energy requirement (GWh)  Peak demand (MW)
1991                    44,700                6,765
1992                    48,350                7,325
1993                    52,310                7,930
1994                    56,600                8,580
1995                    61,200                9,290
1996                    66,100               10,040
1997                    71,400               10,850
1998                    77,100               11,730
1999                    83,200               12,680
2000                    89,800               13,700
Average annual growth     8.1S                 8.22
4.7       The load growth forecasts are deemed conservative, for two reasons.
First, power shortages have been occurring for a long time, so there is likely
to be a lot of suppressed demand for electricity. Second, Shandong has been
one of the fastest growth provinces in China: its GNP has been increasing by
about 16.6 percent a year between 1985 and 1990 and is expected to continue to
increase by at least 10 percent a year over the next decade. To sustain this
rate of growth, electricity supply should expand at a rate of about 9 percent
a year.
C. The Power Development Program (1991-2000)
4.8       Shandong is short of hydroelectric potential.  The expanding of
generating capacity, therefore, will be virtually entirely based on thermal
power stations. A study of the least-cost investment program was made by
China Power Engineering Consulting Corporation (CPECC) in 1989 and revised in
1990. The study is based on an optimization of the Shandong system and
includes least-cost expansion alternatives for the period 1990-2000. The
analysis confirms that the development program for SPG should be based primar-
ily on the construction of large coal-fired baseload thermal plants at mine-
mouths or near railway lines, so that the plants can make use of coal from
nearby mines and from Shanxi Province. The study also confirms that there are
no other alternatives better than the proposed project (para. 7.4).



- 24 -
4.9       A summary of the power development program for the SPG system,
including generation and transmission requirements, is given in Annex 11. The
balance between power demand and supply is given in Annex 12. It indicates
that power shortages would still be present up to 1996. Only after 1997 the
situation would improve, when the expansion of Zouxian power plant and other
new power stations are completed.



- 25 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
5.1       The proposed project is consistent with the Government strategy to
modernize and increase the efficiency of the power subsector. The major
objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) alleviate the acute power
shortage in Shandong and meet the province's projected power demand by 1997;
(b) support national policies for developing large mine-mouth thermal power
generating units to make effective use of China's abundant coal resources;
(c) continue efforts to transfer the modern technology in plant design and
project management for 600 MW thermal power units; (d) provide technical
assistance to strengthen SPEPB's environmental planning for thermal power
stations and to restructure power tariffs; and (e) upgrade SPEPB's capabili-
ties in financial management and in the operation and maintenance of thermal
power plants.
5.2       The proposed project will assist the Government in a study to ana-
lyze the effects on air quality of long-range thermal power expansion programs
and develop practical methodologies for selecting sites which minimize the
adverse environmental impacts in China's coastal regions.
B. Project Description
5.3       The proposed project is located about 175 km south of Jinan, the
capital city of Shandong Province. It is situated on a site with favorable
topographical and geological conditions and easy access by railroad and high-
way. Water for the makeup and circulating water systems will be supplied from
the Guoliji underground aquifer south of the plant, supplemented during the
wet season from the Four South Lake (Weishan Hu). Cooling water towers will
be used for recirculation. Coal will be supplied from the nearby Yanzhou Coal
field which has a proven reserve of 7 billion tons and a current annual pro-
duction capacity of 13 million tons, sufficient to meet the demand for the
2,400 NW plant. Arrangements for the supply and transportation of coal were
found to be satisfactory.
5.4       The proposed project consists of:
(a) the expansion of the existing Zouxian coal-fired thermal power
plant, by the addition of two generating units of 600 MW each to
reach an ultimate capacity of 2,400 MW; this would include:
(i) site preparation, civil works for coal unloading, intake struc-
ture, cooling water towers, a chimney, foundations, plant
buildings and ancillary structures; and
(ii) electrical and mechanical equipment including boiler island,
turbine-generator island, instrumentation and control island,
coal and ash handling facilities, electrical equipment for
switchyard and plant use, and other necessary auxiliaries.



- 26 -
(b) construction of associated 500 kV and 220 kV transmission lines and
substations to feed power into the grid;
(c)  construction management and provision of consulting services for
equipment procurement, coordination and interfacing of engineering
and design of different power plant islands, and review of sup-
pliers' drawings;
(d) provision of technical assistance for a study on air pollution con-
trol for coal-fired power plant development in the coastal areas of
China;
(e) preparation of a tariff study and implementation of a phased, time-
bound action plan for improving the structure of power tariff in the
Shandong power grid;
(f) training program; and
(g) a monitoring program for environmental protection.
5.5       Project Origin and Design.  The proposed project was first brought
to the attention of the Bank in October 1987 during the annual review of the
future lending program between the Government and the Bank. An identification
mission visited Shandong in May 1988. The initial feasibility study of the
third-phase development, with two 600 MW units, was prepared by the Northwest
China Electric Power Design Institute (NWCEPDI) in 1986 and was approved by
MWREP in September 1987. The final feasibility study was updated by NWCEPDI
in May 1989; it demonstrated that the project was technically sound (including
siting, fuel and water supplies, ash disposal and environmental considera-
tions), and economically justified. A conceptual design was completed in
September 1989 to finalize the design criteria and key parameters of the proj-
ect.
5.6       Extension of the Zouxian Thermal Power Station.  Phase I of the
existing station consists ot two 300 MW units, commissioned in 1985 and 1986.
Phase II of the station, also involves two 300 MW units, commissioned in 1988
and 1989. A study of the power development program has confirmed that further
extension of the Zouxian thermal power station is the least-cost solution for
SPEPB's future development program (paras. 4.8 and 7.4). The station is
located near the major load centers, which have experienced acute power short-
ages for many years; it also is situated at the mine-mouth, reducing both
transmission and fuel costs.
5.7       The site was originally designed for a total capacity of 2,400 MW,
adequate to accommodate two more units of 600 MW each. The site has many
existing facilities that can be utilized such as an administration building,
testing and dispatching centers, repair shops, warehouses, and living quar-
ters.
5.8       Transmission System.  In order to feed power from the Zouxian plant
to the SPEPB system, one additional 500-kV transmission line will be con-
structed. The line will extend a total of 258 km from Zouxian to Zibo. The
existing Weifang substation will be extended by the addition of a 500 MVA



- 27 -
transformer. A new substation of 750 MVA will be added at Zibo (see Map IBRD
22046). Nine 220 kV lines also will be built, extending 511 km in total. In
addition, seven new substations will be built and five existing substations
will be extended, altogether adding 1,800 MVA of capacity.
5.9       Consulting Services.  NWCEPDI will provide detailed design engineer-
ing services. The China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
(CIECC), supported by the CPECC, will provide overall consulting services for
the project (terms of reference for consulting services are included in Annex
13).
5.10      An internationally reputable consulting firm, selected in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, will provide the follow-
ing services to the SPEPB and NWCEPDI:
Stare 1 Services (Procurement)
(a)   prepare bidding documents for the boiler, ari assist in preparing
and reviewing bidding documents for the turbine auxiliaries pack-
age, electrical equipment island, and instrumentation and control
island; and
(b)   assist the owner of the project in the prebidding meeting, bid
evaluations, preparation of bid evaluation reports, and contract
arrangements.
Stage 2 Services (Implementation)
(a)   assist in the interfacing of engineering and design components for
different islands, including the turbine-generator island, and
provide assistance in the design liaison meetings;
(b)   assist in reviewing shop drawings and other detailed drawings,
technical documents, and calculations submitted by the manufactur-
ers of major equipment; and
(c)   provide support in construction management to the owner of the
project.
5.11      About 250 man-months of foreign consulting services will be required
for the project. For project preparation, an amount of $1.5 million has been
provided for Stage I services as one of the subprojects under the second TCC
(Credit 1664-CHA).i/ An additional amount of $2.6 million will be included
under the Bank loan for Stage II services.
5.12      Technical Assistance for a Study on Air Pollution Control.  Current
plans show that conventional thermal power generation based on coal will con-
tinue to provide at least three-quarters of the generation capacity in China
through the end of the century. Power demand is large in China's coastal
areas because of the well-developed economy and large population located
1/ This $1.5 million has not been included in the project cost estimate.



- 28 -
there.  These areas now have about 50,000 MW of coal-fired thermal capacity
and plans to build an additional 30,000 MW by the year 2000. Because most of
the increase in capacity will come from thermal units, the impact on air qual-
ity of operating all units needs to be examined.
5.13      Any new development of coal-fired power plants in the coastal
regions of China must ensure that the plants are located in areas with the
least damaging environmental impact and that the plants conform to modern
standards of pollution control. A strategy is required which guarantees that
the size and location of power plants are appropriate. The proposed project
provides technical assistance for a study to develop such a strategy.
5.14      As a special feature in the proposed project, the study on air pol-
lution control is designed to develop guidelines and methodologies for mini-
mizing air pollution from thermal power plants sited in coastal regions. A
detailed program of study has been prepared which will initiate the search for
practical, long-term guidelines for siting thermal plants (Annex 14). This
study will be implemented under a management committee, chaired by the Depart-
ment of Safety and Environmental Protection of MOE, to review the results of
each phase of study, discuss the status of the program with the Bank, and
provide decisions and comments as appropriate.  The committee will share
information with the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA). The
Japanese Grant Facility has agreed to finance the study (para. 5.24). The
contract was signed between both governments in July 1991 and the study work
already started. Assurances were obtained that MOE would carry out a study on
air pollution control in accordance with the terms of reference and timing
agreed with the Bank. and exchange views with the Bank on the progress and
findings of the study.
5.15      Tariff Study and Action Plan.  The power pricing study, based on the
terms of reference agreed with the Bank (Annex 15), has been already initiated
and its initial report was prepared. The report includes a review of current
tariff practices in Shandong Province, the design of a rate structure based on
marginal costs, and load-curve measurements .or industrial customers in prepa-
ration for a pilot test of time-of-day tariffs. The beneficiary is currently
stueying the unification of rates across the whole province which is in line
with the main objectives of an action plan included in the proposed project.
Future study work will focus on fine-tuning of target tariff structure and on
defining concrete steps for the transition program towards target tariffs, in
consistency with a gradual adjustment of rate levels complying with financial
objectives. A preliminary report is expected by the end of 1992 and will
include a specific proposal for the adjustment of demand charges applied to
industry, and outline the scheme for implementing time-of-day rates and
improving rate differentials according to voltage of supply. The tariff
action plan will be executed by SPEPB in order to bring tariffs more in line
with the cost of supply for various consumer categories viz. reflect cost
differences associated with variations in consumers' usage patterns and reduce
subsidies to consumers other than low-income groups. The action plan also
will take into account the findings of the East China power pricing study
(Annex 16). The tariff study is being carried out with the assistance of
WREPERI and is expected to be completed by February 1993. Assurances were
obtained from SPEPB: (a) that the tariff study would be carried out in accor-
dance with terms of reference and timing agreed with the Bank: (b) that SPEPB



- 29 -
would nrenare and furnish to the Bank. by June 30. 1993. an action plan: and
(c) thereafter. SPEPB would imnlement the action plan as agreed with the Bank.
5.16      Training.  A training program with the following four components is
included in the project (Annex 17)t
(a)   training of SPEPB staff in the areas of utility management, finan-
cial planning, and development of a management information system;
(b)   project-related training for technical staff;
(c)   upgrading and equipping of SPEPB's technical schools; and
(d) training of environmental staff in the use and maintenance of
monitoring equipment (details of this component are given in Anne
24).
5.17      To modernize the management and financial planning of the utility,
SPEPB managers and financial staff will participate in local seminars on util-
ity management and financial planning. Afterwards they will visit selected
utilities overseas. The objectives of the training are to provide the staff
with the skills needed to deal with modern and larger power plants, grids with
automated load dispatch systems, higher voltage transmission, modern account-
inglcosting/pricing, and a self-sustained organization of investment planning.
5.18      Project-related training for the technical staff will include:
(a) on-the-job training for engineering and design staff by providing oppor-
tunities for them to work together with the consultants; (b) training of elec-
trical and mechanical staff by suppliers of major equipment included under the
contracts; and (c) training for the operations and maintenance staff.
5.19      To meet SPEPB's long-term needs for human resources, expansions will
be made in its staff college in Jinan, in the Shandong Secondary Technical
School for Electric Power in Taian, and in the three technical schools for
skilled workers. All of these schools will be provided with more laboratory
equipment and teaching aids and training to upgrade the skills of their teach-
ing staff.
5.20      A time frame for the training program has been finalized and agreed.
All of the training components will be implemented by SPEPB. Assurances were
obtained from SPEPB that it would carry out the training in accordance with
the oroaram agreed with the Bank.
C. Cost Estimate
5.21      The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 5.1.  The
cost estimates reflect January 1992 prices and are based on the latest ten-
dering information available for 600 MW units in China. Unit costs of civil
works are based on information obtained during the implementation of Phase I
and Phase II of the Zouxian power plant. Since this is an ex.ension project,
site conditions are well known. Physical contingencies are calculated at 5
percent for the foreign costs of plant equipment and transmission facilities,



- 30 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local    Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign   Total    Cost as I
-  (Y million) ------        ------   million) ------    of total
Site preparation              45.2       0.0       45.2     8.4       0.0       8.4       0.0
Civil works                  471.8      90.9      562.7    87.7      16.9    104.6       16.1
Plant equipment
and materials la           778.6   1,426.1    2,204.7   144.7    265.1    409.8        64.1
Transmission
system                    343.4      131.3      474.7    63.8      24.4      88.2      27.7
Air pollution
control study                0.5       4.8        5.3     0.1       0.9       1.0      90.0
Training  a                   7.0       11.8       18.8     1.3       2.2       3.5      62.8
Tariff action plan            0.5        0.5        1.0     0.1       0.1       0.2      50.0
Engineering and
construction
management                 163.0      14.0      177.0    30.3       2.6      32.9       7.9
Total Base
Cost                  1,810.0   1,679.4    3,489.4   336.4    312.2    648.6        48.1
Contingencies
Physical                   181.0      84.0      265.0    33.7      15.6      49.3      31.6
Price                     427.5      480.2      907.7    51.4      45.7      97.1      47.1
Total Prolect
Cost                  2.418.5   2.243.6    4,662.1   421.5   373.15    795.0        47.0
Interest during
construction lb            591.0      282.6      873.6   109.9      52.5    162.4       32.3
Total Finan-
cina Required         3,009.5   2,526.2    5.535.7   531.4    426.0    957.4        44.5
/a Including Enviromental 1(onitoring Program (Equipment and Training).
lb  Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rate for projected disbursements of
loan proceeds. Foreign currency portion of IDC is based on Bank loan variable rate.
Notest    1.   Base cost and physical contingency (at early 1992 prices) have been calculated
usins an exchange rate of Y 1  $0.19.
2.   The project would be exempted from Import duties and taxes.
3.   Total physical contingencies are about 7.6 percent of base cost; local price
contingencies are about 13.9 percent and foreign price contingencies are about
13.6 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies.
and 10 percent for civil works and other local costs. Price contingencies for
costs expressed in terms of foreign exchange (US dollars) are calculated
according to anticipated international price movements of 3.9 percent a year
on average for the period 1992-98. The price escalation for costs expressed
in local currency is calculated according to projected local inflation rates
of 8 percent a year for 1992, 5 percent for 1993 and thereafter. Detailed
estimates of project costs are provided in Annex 18.
D. Financing Plan
5.22        The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 5.2.
5.23        The proposed Bank loan of $310 million will be used to meet
39.0 percent of the total project cost, or 72.8 percent of the foreign
exchange requirements. The loan will finance the following components:
(a) steel products and timber;



- 31 -
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
($ mlllion equivalent)
Local cost  Foreign cost  Total cost
IBRD                                          310.0      310.0
SEIC Loan                          265.7          -      265.7
Shandong Province                  265.7      115.1      380.8
Japanese Grant Facility               -         0.9        0.9
Total                          531.4      426.0      957.4
(b)  construction equipment (a heavy-duty crane for plant erection);
(c)  electrical and mechanical equipment including boiler island, turbine
auxiliaries, instrumentation and control, and electrical equipment
for switchyard and plant use;
(d)  associated materials and equipment for the 500 kV and 220 kV trans-
mission network;
(e)  consulting services;
(f)  monitoring, testing, and laboratory instruments; and
(g)  training.
5.24      The major items of foreign costs financed by Shandong Province are
turbine-generators and IDC on the Bank loan. Fifty percent of the local costs
will be financed by SEIC and 50 percent will be financed by the provincial
government. A grant of V 121.5 million (equivalent to about $0.9 million} has
been approved by the Japanese Grant Facility to finance the study on air pol-
lution control under the proposed project.
5.25      The proposed Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of
China at the standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term, including
five years' grace. Proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the Government
through Shandong Province to SPEPB with the same terms as the Bank loan.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would onlend the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan through Shandong Province to SPEPB under a subsidiary loan
agreement with a 20-year term. including five years' grace at the Bank's stan-
dard variable interest rate. SPEPB will bear the commitment charges and the
foreign exchange risk. A Project Agreement will be concluded between the Bank
and SPEPB. Execution of the resvective subsidiary loan aQreements between the
Government and Shandong Province, and Shandona Province and SPEPB will be
conditions of effectiveness for the loan.
E. Procurement
5.26      Equipment and materials, including steel and timber for civil works,
financed under the proposed Bank loan will be procured by international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.



- 32 -
Model Procurement Documents for China will be used to the maximum extent pos-
sible. Goods manufactured or produced in China may be eligible for a prefer-
ence in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price or the import duty,
whichever is lower. Other specialized equipment estimated to cost less than
$200,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of $7.0 million will be pro-
cured by Limited International Bidding (LIB) in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Laboratory instruments and measuring and testing
apparatus estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount of $2.0 million will be procured by international shopping (IS). Con-
sulting services will be obtained following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants (para. 5.10).
5.27      Two 600 MW turbine-generator units (about 9.5 percent of the total
project cost) will be procured through a joint manufacturing agreement between
the Hitachi Company of Japan and the Dongfang Electric Corporation (DEC) of
China, with Hitachi taking the full responsibility for the quality and perfor-
mance of the units. The joint agreement will facilitate technology transfer
and promote the development of local manufacturing industries for 600 MW
turbo-generating units in China. This reserved procurement through the joint
arrangement is considered to be appropriate for the satisfactory execution of
the project in terms of overall cost, quality, and completion time. Technical
and commercial documents for the turbine-generator will be submitted to the
Bank for review to ascertain, inter alia, compatibility with other project
equipment. The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in
Table 5.3, and details on procurement arrangements and the related timetable
are presented in Annex 19.
5.28      All procurement documents pertaining to bidding packages for goods
fin2nced by the Bank and estimated to cost more than $1.0 million equivalent
will be subject to the Bank's prior review; this covers the procurement of all
eight major packages to be financed out of the Bank loan, and represents
97 percent of the Bank loan.
F. Prolect Implementation
5.29      The land needed for the power plant is already available.  The
detailed engineering and design for the new extension has been carried out by
NWCEPDI. Bidding documents for the boiler and technical documents for the
turbine generator will be prepared by SPEPB with the assistance of NWCEPDI and
the foreign consultants. A construction management unit for the proposed
project will be set up under SPEPB. The unit will be properly staffed and
given ample authority to carry out its management duties. The unit will
receive assistance from consultants in coordinating the delivery of equipment,
scheduling implementation, controlling costs, maintaining quality control, and
managing start-up testing and commissioning. The organization of the proposed
construction unit is presented in Chart 4.
5.30      The implementation schedule for the various components of the proj-
ect is presented in Chart 5. Key dates of project implementation are given in
Annex 20. The civil works construction (about 10 percent of the total project
cost) is well within the capability of local contractors. These works will be
financed by SPEPB and procured following local competitive bidding procedures.
Site preparation will be started in May 1992, and foundation excavation will



- 33 -
Table 5.3: SUIMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million equivalent)
Procurement Method           Total
Project Element                               ICB      Other      N.B.F. La      cost
1.  Works
1.1 Site preparation                       -         -           10.0        10.0
1.2 Civil works                            -         -          106.3       106.3
2.  Goods
2.1 Plant equipment & materials          273.9       9.oLb      234.8       517.7
(263.4)    (9.0)                  (272.4)
2.2 Transmission systems                  29.9       -          81.8        111.7
(29.9)                            (29.9)
2.3 Construction equipment                 2.0       -           0.5          2.5
(2.0)                             (2.0)
3.  Consultancies
3.1 Engineering & construction             -         3.1         38.1        41.2
management                             -        (3.1)                   (3.1)
3.2 Training                               -         2.5          1.7         4.2
(2.5)                   (2.5)
3.3 Tariff study                           -         0.1         0.1          0.2
(0.1)                   (0.1)
3.4 Air pollution control study            -         -            1.2         1.2
Total                                     305.8      14.7        474.5       795.0
(295.3)    (14.7)                 (310.0)
La N.B.F. - Not Bank-financed.
Lb LIB and IS.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
follow in May 1993. Commissioning of the first unit is targeted for December
1996; the second unit will follow 12 months later, in December 1997. The
project completion date will be June 30, 1998, and the cl1sing date of the
Bank loan will be June 30, 1999. An estimated schedule of annual contractual
and other payments is provided in Table 5.4.
G. Disbursement
5.31       The Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100 percent of the
for ign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on a
c.i.f. basis; (b) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for locally
manufactured items; (c) 75 percent of the cost of other items procured
locally; and (d) 100 percent of the expenditure for consulting services and
training. For expenditures pertaining to training and contracts for goods
valued at less than $200,000 equivalent, reimbursement will be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures. Documentation supporting such expendi-
tures would be retained in the SPEPB off4.ce and made available for review by
the Bank's supervision mission. To facilitate disbursements under this proj-
ect, a Special Account will be established with an authorized allocation of
$15.0 million, representing approximately four months of average project
expenditures. Applications for replenishment will be submitted monthly or



- 34 -
Table 5.4: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENTS
($ million equivalent)
Proiect Year /a                  Total
Project element      1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  Payment   Remarks
Works
Site preparation    0.9    5.9    1.0    1.0    0.6    0.6    -         10.0         NBP
Civil works         3.0   25.5   55.2   11.0    8.0    3.6    -        106.3         NBP
Goods
Plant equipment    12.9   29.0   58.3   89.3   48.9   21.2   14.3   273.9            ICB
and materials    (12.9)  (29.0)  (58.3)  (89.3)  (44.9)  (17.2)  (11.8)  (263.4)
-      0.9    2.5    3.5    2.1    -        -        9.0       Other
-     (0.9)  (2.5)  (3.5)  (2.1)                    (9.0)
4.5   11.0   36.4  109.1   53.2   14.2    6.4   234.8            NBP
Transmission          -      -      10.6   43.8   45.4   11.9    -       111.7    ICB, NBF
system                            (2.9)  (11.7)  (12.1)  (3.2)          (29.9)
Construction          -      0.7    1.5    0.3    -        -       -       2.5    ICB, NBF
equipment                  (0.2)  (1.5)  (0.3)                          (2.0)
Consultancies
Engineering & con-   3.4    5.8    6.1    8.6    8.9    4.1    4.3    41.2  NBF, Other
struction mgmt.          (0.5)  (0.6)  (1.0)  (1.0)                   (3.1)
Training            -       0.4    1.4    1.5    0.6    0.3    -         4.2  NBF, Other
(0.2)  (1.0)  (0.8)  (0.2)  (0.3)            (2.5)
Tariff action program  -     0.2    -       -       -      -               0.2  NBF, Other
(0.1)                                        (0.1)
Air pollution
control study       -      0.86   0.45   -        -      -               1.2         NBF
Total           24.7   80.2  173.4  268.1  167.7   55.9   25.0   795.0
(Bank-financed)  (12.9)  (30.9)  (66.8) (106.6)  (60.3)  (20.7)  (11.8)  (310.0)
/a Based on calendar year.
when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever
comes sooner.
5.32       Annex 21 presents the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan as well as a standard profile of disbursements for all sectors in China.
The disbursements are expected to be completed in six years, very close to the
standard disbursement profile for China.
H. Monitorine and Reporting
5.33       Satisfactory procedures for financial reporting have been estab-
lished for use in monitoring the progress of the project (paras. 3.12 and
3.19). SPEPB will submit semi-annual progress reports on project execution
and a project completion report not later than six months after the loan clos-
ing date.  The timely implementation of the project is critical and depends on
adequate financial resources being made available when needed.  For this rea-
son, the project progress reports would include inter alia, SPEFB's proposal
regarding project costs and annual financial plan for the following year.  The
scope and content of the project progress reports was discussed and agreed.



- 35 -
In view of the experience with similar power projects in China, normal project
supervision would be required.
I. Environmental Considerations
5.34      The principal activities in the power plant area are agricultural
and mining. The population density within 1 km of the plant is about 5,000
and within a radius of 5 km is 15,000. Zouxian is the nearest township, with
a population of approximately 50,000; it is located about 10 km northeast of
the plant site. The prevail' , wind direction is northeastern during winter
and southern during summer. As the site for the power plant is already devel-
oped, there will be no need for land acquisition.
Environment Impact
5.35      An Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on the proposed proje^t vas
prepared by NWCEPDI in 1990 and has been approved by the Shandong Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau. Additional monitoring of air quality was
performed for approximately two years so that a more complete analysis and
evaluation could be made with respect to World Bank Environmental Guidelines.
This supplemental analysis was found to be acceptable and the results indi-
cated that the project would satisfy all applicable World Bank and Chinese
enviroiunental guidelines (Annex 22). The environmental impact of the project
has been carefully checked and found satisfactory to meet the global and ambi-
ent requirements. Furthermore, all of the mitigating measures recommended in
the EIS (Annex 23) were considered to be reasonable. Assurances were obtained
from SPEPB that it would incorporate recommended mitigating measures identi-
fied in the EIS into the nroiect design.
5.36      Air Quality.  The coal to be used for the plant would be of low
grade with a heat value of about 4,329 Kcal/kg, a sulfur content of less than
0.5 percent, and en ash content of less than 30.0 percent. The supplemental
study indicated the annual average level of sulfur dioxide emission to be
62 micrograms/m3 at the most sensitive receptor point and 37 micrograms/m3 at
the anticipated maximum pollution point. The former is located at Zouxian
County Township and the latter is located downstream of the existing plume.
Under the most conservative conditions, World Bank Guidelines would require
sulfur dioxide emission levels of less than 16.8 tons/hour and Chinese regula-
tions would require emission levels of less than 31.3 tons/hour. Since the
emission rate of sulfur dioxide is projected to be 4.8 tons/hour, it is in
compliance with both standards. Furthermore, the iapact on ambient air qual-
ity of resultant increases in sulfur dioxide is small enough so that World
Bank air quality standards for daily maximum and annual average at both moni-
toring locations would be met, and stricter Chinese norms for once-maximum,
hourly average, daily maximum and annual average, would also be met at both
locations.
5.37      Dust Particles.  An electrostatic precipitator (ESP) with a collec-
tion efficiency of 99.6 percent will be installed to control stack emissions
of dust particles. The World Bank guidelines recommend an ESP with a collec-
tion efficiency of 99.7 percent. However, the additional expense to meet the
stricter World Bank guidelines is unwarranted in this case. With emission
levels of 150 mg/m3, the maximum daily dust concentrations with the proposed



- 36 -
project would meet both World Bank and Chinese air quality standards. The
once-maximum dust concentration level would be within Chinese standards (there
is no Bank requirement) and the increase in dust level would only raise the
existing annual average value at Zouxian township by about 0.4 percent, also
virtually undetectable. At the anticipated point of maximum impact all World
Bank and Chinese air quality norms for dust would be met. A summary of all of
these zonsiderations is presented in Annex 22.
5.38      Liauid Effluents.  The proposed project will utilize natural draft
cooling towers, so there will be a minimum water requirement (and consequently
minimum effluent discharge) for the plant. Plant liquid effluents may consist
of: wastewaters, sanitary wastes, blowdown from the cooling tower, runoff and
wash waters contaminated by oil, and run-off waters from the coal yard. All
effluents are to be treated prior to discharge and all treatment procedures
have been designed to meet Chinese effluent standards. There are no World
Bank standards for power plant effluents, but the Chinese standards were
reviewed and considered to be acceptable. No chrome chemicals will be used in
the cooling water system and no polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) will be used
for transformers included in the project.
5.39      Ash Disposal.  Boiler ash and fly ash from the power plant will be
sent to the ash yard about 13 km southwest of the plant. The ash disposal
site is uninhabited and has appropriate underlying geological conditions to
prevent any contamination from leaching into groundwaters. A rockfill dam of
about 90 meters high will be built, adequate fer about 25 years' storage. The
pH value in the ash waters sent to the ash yard will be kept between allowable
limits of 6-9, providing a further measure of assurance that trace metal
leaching would be minimized.   The ash surface will be kept wet to prevent
dusting, and will be replanted upon completion to maintain stability. Ground
water monitoring will be performed regularly.
5.40      An environmental monitoring program prepared by SPEPB covers all
aspects of the environment discussed above. The program was found acceptable
to the Bank (Annex 24). Furthermore, the envisaged environmental monitoring
as a management function will be fully incorporated in the normal plant opera-
tion when the plant comes on line. Assurances were obtained from SPEPB that
it would implement the monitoring program as agreed with the Bank.
5.41      Mining.  As mentioned earlier (para. 5.3), coal will be supplied
from the nearby Yanzhou coal field. In order to provide assurances that the
proposed project will not indirectly contribute to environmental pollution or
endanger the health and safety of miners, special attention has been paid to
the mine site. The mine is about 470 meters deep. Approximately 420 tons /
hour of water are pumped out of the mine. The water receives primary treat-
ment underground and is used on the surface by local farmers for irrigation.
A secondary water treatment plant is being constructed on the surface; when it
is completed water from it will be used in the coal washing plant. Since the
proposed project will not use washed coal, the environmental impact of the
coal washing plant will not be increased.
5.42      As a result of the mining operation, an area of approximately
800,000 m2 has been sunk to a depth of about two meters. The area in question
is a flat wheat field that has been uniformly lowered. The new topography has



- 37 -
increased water retention and improved crop production. Working conditions
for miners seem satisfactory. The mine has been in operation since June 1986
and the fatality rate of 0.062 per million man-hours is below US statistics of
0.96. The mine is well ventilated at 6.25 m3/minute/miner, which is better
than World Bank Guidelines (6.00 m3/minute/miner). Gas levels are monitored
more effectively than Bank recommendations suggest and a review indicated
methane and carbon dioxide levels to be well within Bank Guidelines. Workers
receive annual examinations and benefit from most of health and safety prac-
tices recommended by the World Bank. Dust levels in the coal mines supplying
the Zouxian power plant are within Chinese regulations.
Population Relocation
5.43      The transmission facilities will be designed and installed in
accordance with current technological practices and are expected to cause
minimum disturbance to the environment. The area through which the 500 kV
transmission lines will pass is primarily agricultural, consisting of fields
and uncultivated hills. No houses are to be relocated in this area. As the
land under the line still could be utilized for cultivation, there should be
no difficulty in acquiring land for the tower foundation (about 2 ha). The
area through which the 220 kV transmission lines will pass is occupied by
cultivated fields. In this area about 200 houses and other structures are to
be relocated outside the transmission line corridor, but within the existing
villages. Affected households will be fully compensated, new houses will be
built by SPEPB in the same neighborhood, and the related relocation will be
implemented in an efficient and equitable manner. The owners of the houses
will be properly compensated and their living standards will be improved by
providing them with more modern houses, water and electricity supply, and
access roads. Assurances were obtained that SPEPB would carry out relocation
of persons affected by the project in accordance with a plan acceptable to the
Bank.



- 38 -
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Introduction
6.1       SPEPB is a financially independent entity which reports to MOE.  It
follows the financial regulations issued by MOF for all state enterprises and
the procedures developed by MOE based on MOF regulations for use by power
bureaus, the salient points of which are discussed in Annex 25. Within this
framework, SPEPB manages its own affairs. In the past its revenues have cov-
ered its operating requirements and have left it with comfortable liquidity.
However, most surpluses have been remitted to the Government; in turn, the
Government has provided all the funds needed for investments in approved proj-
ects. Historically, these funds have been provided by the government on a
grant basis, but more recently they have been provided as loans. SPEPB's
current financial performance and future prospects are discussed in the fol-
lowing paragraphs.
B. Financial System
6.2       As has been the case under most of the Bank-financed projects for
the Chinese power subsector, SPEPB is not permitted to retain more than a
nominal amount of its earnings, and the cash retained must ultimately be
applied to certain specified categories of expenditures or investments. Thus,
SPEPB has limited incentive to realize revenues in excess of its obligations.
Also, the traditional indicators of financial performance, such as rate of
return and self-financing ratio, have only limited applicability to an analy-
sis of SPEPB at this time. As part of the ongoing economic reforms, the Gov-
ernment is reassessing the present fiscal system, with particular emphasis on
tax reform issues and options. Since details of such reforms are still being
formulated, there are considerable uncertainties relating to the specific
parameters affecting the bureau's future finances. Nevertheless, in keeping
with the spirit of the Enterprise Law, the integrated measures of the economic
reform would be directed at enhancing rather than impeding the commercial
orientation of the state enterprises.
C. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.3       SPEPB's financial statements for the period 1985-90 are shown in
Annex 26 and are summarized in Table 6.1.
6.4       During 1985-90, SPEPB sales increased by about 68 percent, and oper-
ating revenues increased by about 193 percent. The average revenue per kWh
increased by about 74 percent. Cost increases, mainly reflecting higher oper-
ating costs arising from coal price increases, outpaced the growth in sales
revenues, as indicated by a sharp increase in the operating ratio from about
83 percent to 93 percent. During the past six years SPEPB realized an average
rate of return of about 10.3 percent based on historically valued net fixed
assets in operation. The downward trend in the rate of return, decreased from
15 percent in 1985 to 6.1 percent in 1990, was mainly due to the rapid
increase in its fixed assets formation and increases in coal prices during the
period. In order to meet the projected cost increases expected in the future



- 39
Teble 6.1: SPEPB'S KE! FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1985-90
(in million Yuan)
Year ended December 31       1985      1986       1987       1988      1989       1990
Electricity sales (GWh)    20,836    23,313    25,470      29,599    32,703     34,921
Average revenue (fen/kWh)     7.3       7.9        8.6       9.4       11.6       12.7
Operating revenues          1,512     1,851      2,182     2,781      3,802      4,437
Operating income La           250       223        272       211        268        320
Capital expenditure          371        945      1,065      1,222     1,223      1,318
Net fixed assets in
operation                 2,160      2,494     3,336      3,776     5,605      5,793
Cash at end of year           177       236        394       306        415        581
Operating ratio (X)           83         88         87        92         93        93
Rate of return (S) lb        15.0      13.8       11.9       8.9        5.7        6.1
Debt service coverage
(times)                     3.8       5.0        7.0       4.0        4.0       4.0
Currsot ratio (times)         3.1       2.3        2.1       2.1        3.0       3.0
/a  Operating revenues less the aggregate of fuel, power purchases, administration, operation
and maintenance, sales tax and depreciation.
/b  Based on historically valued average net fixed aseets In operation.
and to remain financially viable, SPEPB will need to increase its tariff by
about 7.8 percent a year in current terms for the period 1991-2000.
Tariffs
6.5        In the past, the SPEPB tariff allowed the bureau adequate operating
revenue and provided substantial general revenues to the State (para. 6.4).
However, in the future, inflation and other specific price adjustments are
expected to have a much greater effect on SPEPB's cost structure. For exam-
ple, the price the Bureau pays for coal, the major part of its cost structure,
already increased substantially between 1987 and 1989. In order for SPEPB to
recover the additional cost of coal price increases the State Price Adminis-
tration allowed it to introduce a gradual fuel adjustment into its primary
pricing arrangements.
D. Financing Plan
6.6        SPEPB's financing plan for the prvject implementation period (1992-
98) is displayed in Table 6.2. The present Chinese financial system prevents
a power bureau from financing more than nominal amounts of its investment
program from internal cash generation. In the case of SPEPB, exactly 100
percent of the cash available for investment is earmarked for renovations and
distribution improvements through the Special Fund allocation system. This
indicates that 100 percent debt financing is planned for all new power plants.
The proposed project accounts for about 19 percent of SPEPB's total fund
requirement. The proposed Bank loan will only meet about 6 percent of SPEPB
financing requirements.
6.7        The estimated foreign exchange requirement of the proposed project
exceeds the Bank loan by $116.0 million. Of this amount, $52.5 million repre-
sents interest during construction, $16.8 million represents about 37 percent
of price contingencies, $45.8 million represents the foreign cost of the tur-
bine-generator and $0.9 million represents the cost for the air pollution



- 40 -
Table 6.2: SPEPB'S FINANCING PLAN, CY92-98
Item                                                  Y million              S milllon La
Sources of Funds
;nternal cash generation                            30,275                  5,627
(less) Increment in workiSg capital                   (429)                   (80)
(less) Increment in Special Fund assets               (565)                  (105)
(less) Repayment of loans                          (10,889)                (2,024)
(less) Remittances to Governnent                    (5,663)                (1,053)
(less) Special Fund expenditures                    (4,605)                  (856)
(less) Interest charged to operation                (5,497)                (1,022)
Cash Available for Investment                      2.627                    489
Proposed IBRD loan                                    1,668                   310
Other loans for proposed project                      4,145                   770
All other loans                                      18,619                  3,461
Total fi2ascinA                                   24.433                  4.541
Total Sources of Funds                            27.060                  5.030
Aoolication of Funds
Proposed project                                      5,222                   971
Other croetrvation                                   16,538                  3,074
Interest durlng construction (lnc.
chargeable to operation IDC)                        2,672                   497
Renovations                                           2,203                   409
9lstribution Improvements                               425                    79
Total Application of Funds                        27.060                  5.030
La  !1I - $0.19.
control study which vill be financed by the Japanese Grant Facility.  SEIC and
the Shandong provincial government have arranged for SPEPB to borrow the yuan
equivalent of the additional foreign exchange requirement either from a local
bank such as the People's Construction Bank of China or directly from the
Shandong provincial government. Arrangements have also been made to allow
SPEPB to purchase the needed foreign exchange from the Bank of China. The
loan would carry a 8.28 percent annual interest rate with repayment over ten
years commencing after the first unit of the project is completed.
6.8        SPEPB will borrow half of the local currency portion of its financ-
ing requirements from the Shandong provincial government and the remaining
half from SEIC. These local loans will be charged at 8.28 percent a year,
with repayments over ten years beginning after the first unit of the project
is completed. Up to the early 1980s, the Government used to give grant.;
during 1980-82 the grants were changed to loans at 3.6 percent interest, and
now for the Zouxian project the Government decided to increase the interest
rate to 8.28 percent on the local loans. This is in line with the prevailing
inmerest rate for key national projects in China.
E. Future Finances
6.9        Projections of SPEPB financial performance for the period 1991-2000
are displayed in Annex 26 (Tables 4 to 7) and are summarized in Table 6.3.



- 41 
The assumptions used in making these projections also are presented                                nnex
26 (Attachment).
Table 6.3, SPEfl'8 RET FINANCUIL INDICATORS. 1990-2000
(Mlillion Yuan)
Actual                                       Forecast,'
Yosr ended 12/31    1990 l     ,im    z,,z    1I.si                                    is's IVY,  ivs   zuuu
Entergy eels (OGVt)   34,922.0 39,046.7 42,044.5 45,671.8 49,430.2 53,494.6 57,821.2 62,497.5 67,479.8 72,811.7 78,580.8
Average price
(fon/kwh)          12,7    14.8    17.2    19.1    20.6    22.2    23.3    24.9    26.3    27.6    28.9
Operating revenue    4,436.9  5,797.0  7.221.6  8709.9 10,170.0 11,881.5 13,469.3 13,572.0 17,773.5 20,129.6 22,70529
Operating incom     377.6   837.4  1,392.3  1,976.2  2,559.2  3,287.7  3,776.4  4,574.6  5,294.9  6,022.0  6,882.1
Remittances to
governmat           73.2    76.4   270.2   475.7   616.8   921.8   994.5  1,043.8  1,338.4  1,523.6  1,898.6
Annual capital
azenitr          1,317.8  2,064.9  2,458.7  2,836.5  3,313.9  4,297.0  4,334.6  4,847.0  4,971.2  5.384,7  3,719,1
Rt benesUr         ,212.0  6,481.9  7,983.8  9,333.5 10,473.0 11,513.8 13,430.1 16,664.1 20,445.0 23,464.3 23,324.2
Long-term debt     5,264.7  6,734.9  8,310.3 10,049.9 11,967.9 14,339.6 16,804.0 18,699.3 20,274.8 22,133.8 24,119.7
Debt service        173.0   834.1  1,195.5  1,455.3  1,868.3  2,022.0  2,645.5  3,768.6  4,037.8  4,276.8  4,457.4
Cash in banks       580.7   636.4   657.4   674.3   709.8   725.4   761.5   813.1   856.1   910.0   968.3
Rate of return
HI=toricaUT valued
a *te CZ          6.1    12.0    16.7    20.5    23.9    28.0    27.7    27.1    25.6    23.4    26.9
Notionally revalued
assets (2)         5.0     9.3    13.0    16.6    19.2    22.8    21.4    21.3    20.3    21.1    22.3
-eif-financing ratio (2) 18.5    14.1    20.8    26.0    26.8    32.6    32.0    33.9    39.1    42.1    49.0
Operatinz ratio (Z)  92.8    86.6    81.6    78.0    75.4    72.8    72.4    71.0    70.5    70.4    70.0
DebtlquIty (2)       61.6    65.3    67.1    68.2    68.1    68.4    67.3    64.4    61.4    39.6    38.2
Debt .evic coverage    3.9    1.3      1.5     1.6     1.6     1.8     1.6      1.5     1.6     1.6     1.7
Sourcet SPE?8 and iesiton etimates, September 1991.
6.10         Between 1990 and 2000,  SPEPB is projected to maintain high rates of
growth. Energy sales are expected to increase by about 125 percent over 1990
levels, representing a compounded annual growth rate of about 8.5 percent.
Net fixed assets in operation are expected to increase by about 385 percent,
representing a compound annual growth rate of about 17 percent. Capital
expenditure is expected to increase by about 334 percent over the 1990 level,
representing a compound annual growth rate of about 16 percent. If SPEPB is
to maintain its financial prudence as measured by the indicators, such as debt
service coverage ratio, debt/equity ratio, and self financing ratio in the
face of this growth, the forecast implies that it will need to increase its
average revenue by 127 percent, from 12.7 fen/kWh in 1990 to 28.9 fen/kWh in
2000. As early as 1992, SPEPB will have to introduce general tariff revisions
in addition to the coal adjustments already approved (para. 6.5).
6.11         Since SPEPB is taking responsibility for becoming financially self
sufficient, the self-financing ratio and the rate of return ratio are becoming
more meaningful and the relationships between pricing, operating costs, and
size of investment program are becoming increasingly important to MOE and
SEIC.   In their role as nationwide managers of the sector,  MOE and SEIC must
arrange financing for the large and rapidly expanding investment programs of
the numerous power bureaus. In the process they have become acutely aware of
the need to mobilize appropriate resources from the consumer.
6.12         In order to ensure the financial soundness of SPEPB and to further
its efforts at resource mobilization, assurances were obtained from SPEPB that
it would take measures. includina but not limited to tariff increases, to
ensure that annually it earns a net cash surRlus sufficient to meet at least
25 Dercent of its three-year average investment program durina 1993/94 and at
least 30 Dercent for the years thereafter. For SPEPB, the net cash surplus
would be defined as total cash revenues less the aggregate of (a) cash operat-
ing expenses; (b) interest charged to operations; (c) income taxes; (d) gross



- 42 -
increases in working capital; (a) net increases in Special Fund Assetsg
(f) loan repaymente; and (g) Special Fund Expenditures for Maintenance and
Employee Benefits. For purposes of this agreement, the Adjustment Tax 1/
would not be considered a reduction in earned cash because it is a remittance
of a residual rather than a tax built into the cost structure and the proceeds
from it are generally recycled into investments in the sector. The average
annual investment program would be defined as the average of: (a) the previ-
ous year's actual capital expenditure; (b) the current year's planned capital
expenditure; and (c) the next year's projected capital expenditure.
6.13      The Government's current policy of using loans rather than grants to
finance capital expenditure is expected to have an important effect on SPEPB
during the projection period. Under the current fiscal arrangement, all capi-
tal investments except renovations and distribution improvements are to be
financed exclusively by loans. As a result, SPEPB's capital structure is
projected to change substantially. The Bureau's debt/equity ratio deterio-
rated from 20/80 in 1985 to 62/38 in 1990; by 1995 this ratio is projected to
reach a maximum of 69/31 and gradually improve to 59/41 percent in 2000.
While the assumption of 100 percent debt financing is conservative and in any
case SPEPB is not allowed to raise debt for any purpose other than capital
investments, SPEPB's debt/equity ratio would not exceed 70/30 throughout the
projection period, which is acceptable. Assurances were obtained from SPEPB
that it would Lmaintain a debtlequity ratio of no more than 75L25 during 1992-
96. and 70/30 thereafter.
6.14      Debt service coverage, which is projected to drop from about 4 times
in 1990 to a minimum of about 1.5 times in 1991, 1992, and 1997, remains sat-
isfactory; however, this ratio should be monitored carefully. Assurances were
obtained that SPEPB would maintain debt service coverage of at least 1.4
times. This assurance, taken in conjunction with SPEPB's agreement to
annually furnish the Bank with eight-year rolling financial projections (para.
3.12), is expected to draw the Bureau's attention to the long-term financial
impact of decisions relating to its investment program.
I/   The power bureaus remit the remainder of net income after distribution
for debt repayment and special fund allocations to MOE as an Adjustment
Tax.



- 43 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. Need for Power System Expansion
7.1       Shandong is rich in mineral resources.  It has an estimated reserve
of 268 billion tons of coal, 10 billion tons of oil and 100 billion m3 of
natural gas. The Shengli oil field, located in the province, is the second
largest in China. Shandong has strong agriculture and industrial bases. In
1990, its gross value of agricultural output was Y 63.9 billion and gross
value of industrial output was Y 220.1 billion--both the highest in China.
The main industries are textile, machinery, food processing, petroleum, chemi-
cals, electronics, and building materials. Rural industries are growing very
rapidly in the province (about 20 percent a year). They were ranked the third
largest among rural industries in China in 1990.
7.2       Despite its impressive resources and output, Shandong's economic
development has been limited by an acute shortage of power generating capac-
ity. The power load has been greatly suppressed, and in 1990 power curtail-
ments by rotation were enforced on an average of 110 feeders per day. The
power shortage that year was estimated to be about 500 MW at peak load, and
3,000 GWh in terms of energy. Most industries were forced to operate only
four days a week, resulting in underutilization of manpower and plant facili-
ties. About 1,000 new large customers applied to receive power but have not
been connected. Their total load unserved by the system is estimated to be
300 MW in peak demands and 1,800 GWh in energy requirements.
7.3       Table 7.1 shows the energy and capacity balances of the SPG system
with and without the two additional units of the Zouxian plant (Annex 12).
These balances reveal the urgent need for the proposed project, since without
it SPEPB's reserve margin will be precarious and the system will not be able
to meet the energy requirement in 1996 and thereafter.
Table 7.1: ENERGY AND CAPACITY BALANCE
1997                       1998
Without       With         Without        With
project      project       project       project
Peak demand (NW)                     10,850        10,850        11,730        11,730
Dependable peaking
capacity (MW)                       11,734       12,934        12,633        13,833
Reserve capacity
requirement (MW)                    2,000         2,000         2,100         2,100
Capacity shortage or surplus
(MW)                               -1,116           +84        -1,197          +3.0
Energy requirement (GWh)             71,400        71,400        77,100        77,100
Energy generation (GWh)              66,600        71,400        69,600        77,100
Energy shortage or surplus
(GWh)                              -4,800             0        -7,500            0



- 44 
B. Least-Cost Studies
7.4       CPECC prepared an economic study of the Zouxian Power Plant Exten-
sion in 1989 and revised its analysis in 1990. Using the WASP III computer
program (para. 2.11), the study formulated and compared on a program basie
many different combinations and sequences of thermal power stations, including
coal-fired, oil-fired, LNG-fired (liquified natural gas) thermal units. The
study shows that (a) coal-fired thermal plants are more economic than oil- and
LNG-fired plants; and (b) the Zouxian project is part of the least-cost expan-
sion program under a wide range of assumptions. The results of the compari-
sons are summarized in Table 7.2.
Table 7.2: COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES
Objective functions La
Alternative                               (Y million)
Tio 600 MW coal-fired units                 26,956
Two 600 MW oil-fired unite                  27,419
Two 600 MW LNG-fired units                  27,630
la Total present worth of all the cash flows including investment
and operating coats.
7.5       The Zouxian thermal power plant extension is the least-cost solution
among other coal-fired plants. Discounted at 10 percent as of 1997, the first
year of its commercial operation, the project comparative advantage with
respect to its next best alternative amounts to about Y 750 million, i.e.,
cost savings of 18 percent per unit of investment. This is because Zouxian
has the following advantages:
(a)  As an extension project, its construction will cost less and
implementation will be expedited;
(b)  It is a mine-mouth plant, so the cost of transporting fuel is lower
than for other alternative coal-fired plants; and
(c)  It is located close to load centers and already has part of 500 kV
transmission facilities available, and, therefore, its transmission
requirement is less than for other alternatives.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.6       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated using the
estimated economic costs of the project and associated investments in trans-
mission and distribution. SPEPB's projected tariffs for the years 1997-2000,
adjusted to 1991 price level (averaging at 16.9 fen/kWh) were taken as the
minimum proxy for the economic value of electricity. In addition, other
charges amounting in avirage about 1.2 fen/kWh, were added to reflect the



- 45 -
surplus benefits. On this basis, the IERR is about 14 percent (see Annex 27
for details).
7.7       The IERR was also calculated on the basis of SPEPB's overall least
cost expansion nrogram for the period 1991-2000, of which the project is a
part. The expansion program consists of 9,250 MW in capacity of baseload
thermal power plants and transmission and distribution projects. Shadow pric-
ing was applied. The same criteria for the economic value of electricity were
used. On this basis, the IERR for SPEPB's expansion program, including the
proposed project, is 13.2 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.8       The sensitivity of the IERR for the project was tested under three
other possible scenarios: (a) with a 10 percent increase in investment cost,
(b) with a one-year delay in commissioning and (c) using a LRMC of coal of
Y 160 instead of Y 150 per ton. It is unlikely that project parameters will
exceed these limits. The following results were obtained.
IERR (Z)
Base case                                        14.0
10% cost overrun                                13.3
One-year delay in commissioning                  12.3
Coal price at Y 160 per ton                      13.5
D. Risks
7.9       No major risks are associated with the project, since it is an
extension of the existing power plant and will be implemented by SPEPB staff,
who have much experience in the power field. Land is already available and
field conditions are well known. The project has been designed taking into
account the requirement that environmental impacts associated with the Zouxian
power station must comply with pertinent Chinese and World Bank guidelines.
An environmental monitoring program will be included under the project to
further reduce the possibility of developing any adverse environmental prob-
lems. The technical soundness and economic feasibility of the project have
been well established. Consulting engineers, both local and foreign, will
assist in engineering and design, procurement, coordination, and supervision
of construction.



- 46 -
VIII. AGIERMENTS AND RECONMENDATION
8.1       The following agreements and assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions:
(a) from the Government, that it would:
(i) onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to SPEPB, through
Shandong Province, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.25); and
(ii) carry out the study on air pollution control in accordance with
the terms of reference and timing agreed with the Bank
(para. 5.14).
(b)  from SPEPB that it would:
(i) furnish each year to the Bank, by April 30 of each year
commencing in 1993, a rolling eight-year financial plan con-
taining projected income statements, statements of sources and
uses of funds, and balance sheets (para. 3.12);
(ii) furnish the Bank with annual financial statements, certified by
auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year commencing in 1993 (para. 3.19);
(iii) carry out the tariff study and take all measures required to
implement the tariff action plan as agreed with the Bank
(para. 5.15);
(iv) carry out training in accordance with the program agreed with
the Bank (para. 5.20);
(v)  incorporate all recommended mitigating measures identified in
the BIS into the project design (pare. 5.35);
(vi) implement the environmental m..aitoring program agreed with the
Bank (para. 5.40);
(vii)  carry out relocation of population affected by th3 project in
accordance with a plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.43);
(viii)  take moceisres, including but not limited to increasing its
tariffs, to ensure that it earns a net cash surplus sufficient
to meet a minimum of 25 percent of its annual investment pro-
gram during 1993/94 and 30 percent thereafter (para. 6.12);
(ix)  maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more than 75/25 from 1992 to
1996, and 70/30 thereafter e'ara. 6.13); and
(x)  maintain a debt service covkrage of no less than 1.4 times
(para. 6.14).



- 47 -
8.2       Execution of the respective subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government, Shandong and SPEPB will be conditions of loan effectiveness
(para. 5.25).
8.3       Subject to the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan of $310 million to the People's Republic of China.
The loan would be for a term of 20 years including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX I
-48-
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Installed Capacity. Electricity Generation
and Sales in thc Power Subsector
Installed                                Energy                    Energy
Capacity (MW) /a                     Generation (GWh) /a              SaleeLb
Year                 Hydro      Thermal        Total        Hydro      Thermal        Total         (GWh)
1949                   163        1,686        1,849          710        3,600        4,310        3,460
1952                   188        1,776        1,964        1,260        6,001        7,261        6,277
1957                 1,019        3,616        4,635        4,813       14,515       19,335       16,407
1962                 2,379       10,686       13,065        -,042       36,753       45,795         n.a.
1965                 3,020       12,056       15,076       10,414       57,190       67,604       56,802
1970                 6,235       17,535       23,770       20,450       95,420      115,870         n.a.
1971                 7,804       18,478       26,282       25,060      113,300      138,360      101,274
1972                 8,700       20,801       29,501       28,820      123,630      152,450      123,600
1973                10,299       23,626       33,925       38,900      127,860      166,760      135,106
1974                11,817       26,291       38,108       41,440      127,410      168,850      135,708
1975                13,428       29,978       43,406       47,630      148,210      195,840      156,969
1976                14,655       32,492       47,147       45,640      157,490      203,130      164,698
1977                15,765       35,686       51,451       47,670      175,740      223,410      181,691
1978                17,277       39,845       57,122       44,630      211,920      256,550      210,239
1979                19,110       43,906       63,016       50,120      231,827      281,947      233,577
1980                20,318       45,551       65,869       58,211      242,416      300,627      251,639
1981                21,933       47,069       69,002       65,546      243,723      309,269      258,976
1982                22,959       49,401       72,360       74,399      253,279      327,678      275,299
1983                24,160       52,280       76,440       86,450      264,990      351,440      297,126
1984                25,547       54,373       79,920       86,780      290,207      376,987      319,600
1985                26,120       60,373       86,493       92,374      318,3.5      410,689      348,353
1986                27,542       66,276       93,818       94,480      355,091      449,571      357,057
1987                30,193       72,704      102,897      100,229      397,092      497,321      420,019
1988                32,698       82,799      115,497      109,177      435,888      545,065      464,013
1989                34,570       92,060      126,637      118,475      466,200      584,675      495,135
1990                35,370       99,630      135,000      126,000      492,000      618,000      527,154
Average annual
growth rate                     11.0%                                  13.02        12.91
La On a country-wide basis.
/b Energy sales not including uses by stations and captive plants.
Source: MOE.



ANNEX 2
- 49 
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Growth Index of Electricity Generation and Primary Energy Demand
Installed CaRacity    Electricity Generation                 Growth Index
Total      Share of    Total           Share of                 Primary        Electricity
Year           (MW)       hydro(C)      (TWh)          hydro(Z)      GNP         Energy       Generation
1979          63,015.9      30.3       281.9            17.8         100          100              100
1980          65,869.1      30.8       300.6            19.4         108          103              107
1981          69,132.6      31.7       309.3           21.2          113          102              110
1982          72,359.6      31.7       327.7           22.7          122          106              116
1983          76,444.9      31.6       351.4           24.6          135          110              125
1984          80,116.9      31.9       377.0           23.0          155          121              134
1985          87,053.2      30.3       410.7           22.5          174          132              144
1986          93,818.5      29.4       449.6            21.0         189          136              159
1987         102,897.0      29.3       497.3           20.2          210          141              176
1988         115,497.1      28.3       545.1           20.0          233          148              193
1989         126,638.6      27.0       584.7           20.2          242          157             207
1990         135,000.0      26.2       618.0           20.4          255          160             219
Source: MOE



ANNEX 3
-50-
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Electricity Consumption by Sectors
Share of
Nation's    Share of industry (S)    transport-    Share of rural               Share of
Year             total      Whole   Heavy    Light         ation           (including         municipal i
(TWh)                                      (2)         household (S)    residential (2)
1949              3.5        69.1    34.4    34.7             0.6              0.6               29.8
1952              6.2       80.0    43.0    37.0              0.9              0.7               18.4
1957             16.4       82.9    58.6    24.3              0.4              0.7               16.0
1962             37.8       84.6    70.0    14.6              0.6              4.1               10.7
1966             70.0       84.1    69.1    15.0              0.6              7.8                7.5
1972            123.6       82.3    69.7    12.6              0.6             10.5                6.6
1976            164.7       78.3    64.6    13.7              1.1             14.1                6.5
1977            186.3       78.5    65.0    13.5              1.2             13.7                6.6
1978            214.9       79.0    65.9    13.1              1.1             13.7                6.3
1979            233.6       79.0    65.9    13.1              0.6             13.9               6.5
1980            251.6       77.9    64.5    13.4              0.6             14.9                6.6
1981            259.0       76.2    62.6    13.6              0.8             16.0                7.0
1982            275.3       76.0    62.0    14.0              0.7             16.0                7.6
1983            297.1       75.7    60.9    14.8              0.7             16.0                7.6
1984            319.6       75.2    60.5    14.7              0.8             15.9                8.1
1985            348.5        73.8    58.8    15.0             0.9             16.5               8.8
1986            379.7       72.9    57.7    15.2              1.2             16.4                9.5
1987            423.5        72.5    57.9    14.6             1.2             16.4                9.9
1988            ;61.3       71.3    57.3    14.5              1.9             16.4                9.9
1989            495.2        71.0    53.9    17.1             1.9             16.7               10.4
1990            524.7       69.4    52.1    17.3              2.0             17.3               11.3
Source: MOE



ANNEX 4
- 51 -                                 Page I
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Nalor Ongoing Hydro :.nd Thermal Power Pro1ects by External Financing
Under the Seventh and Eighth Five-Year Plans /a
Installed      Year of                                         Loan
capacity      commis-                                       amount
(Unit x NW)    sioning      Source of finance               ($ mln)
HYDRO POWER
East China
Shaqikou hydro                   3 x 75       1988-90      Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-          32.5
nomic Development
North China
Ming Tombs pumped storage        4 x 200       1997-99     OECF loan                          46.0
Panjiakou pumped storage         3 x 90       1989-90      Government of Italy                38.7
Central China
Geheyan hydro                    4 x 300      1993-95      Canada Supplier's Credit          108.0
Wuqiangqi hydro                  5 x 240      1994         OECF loan                         153.0
Southwest China
Tienshengqiao (II) hydro         4 x 220      1990-92      OECF loan                         600.0
Tienshengqiao (I) hydro          4 x 300      1998-99      OECF loan                         230.0
Subtotal                         5,775                                                    1.208.2
THERMAL POWER
East China
Nanton thermal                   2 x 350      1989         USA-GE, Supplier's Credi         180.0
Shidongkou thermal               2 x 600      1992         USA, France, Japan, Sup-          350.0
plier's Credit
Fuzhou thermal                   2 x 350      1989         Japan, Supplier's Credit          180.0
North China
Tienjin Beidagang thermal        2 x 320      1991         Italy, Government conces-         200.0
sional loan and Supplier's
Credit
Shangan thermal                  2 x 350      1989-90      Canada, USA-GE, Supplier's        180.0
Credit
East Beijing thermal             2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                         150.0
Hejing thermal                   2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                         150.0



ANNEX 4
-52-                                   Page 2
Installed      Year of                                         Loan
capacity      commis-                                       amount
(Unit x NW)    sioning      Source of finance               ($ mln)
THERMAL POWER (cont'd)
Northeast China
Dalian thermal                   2 x 350      1989         Japan-Mitsubishi, Suppli-         180.0
er's Credit
Central China
Yueyang thermal                  2 x 360      1990-94      UK, 1/2 Government conces-        190.0
sional loan and 1/2 Sup-
plier's Credit
Ezhou thermal                    2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                         190.0
Jiujiang thermal                 2 x 300      1994-95      OECF loan                         190.0
South China
Guangdong Shajlao thermal        2 x 350      1987         Japan-Nitsubiahi, Suppli-         230.0
er's Credit
Shantou gas turbines             3 x 10.5     1987-88      France, Supplier's Credit          33.8
Southwest China
Chongqing Lohuang thermal        2 x 350      1991-92      UK, France/Japan, 1/2 Gov-        250.0
ernment conLessional loan
and 1/2 Supplier's Credit
Chongqing gas turbines           3 x 10.5     1987-88      EEC Credit and UK Govern-          12.6
ment Loan
Subtotal                        14.997                                                    2.666.4
Total                           20,772                                                    3.874.6
/a World Bank-financed proiects are not included.



- 53                                               ANNEX S
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERHAL POWER PROJECT
Performance Indicators for Shandong Power System
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
Installed Capcitv (NW)                3.843    4.002    4.301    4,658    5.379    6.610    7,413    8.135
SPEPB                              3,489    3,663    3,963    4,268    5,796  5,813.5  6,323.5    6,936
Local & captive plants                354      339       338       390       583    796.5  1,089.5    1,199
Energy Generation (GWh)              21,759   23.580   26.142   29.910   33,080   37.880   41.881   44.543
SPEPB                             20,371   22,274   24,874   28,442   31,225   34,960   37,162   40,041
Local & captive plants              1,388    1,306    1,268    1,468    1,855    2,920    4,719    4,502
Energv Generation (GWh)              21.759   23.580   26,142   29.910   33.080   37,880   41.881   44.54S
Thermal                           21,745   23,572   26,089   29,859   33,060   37,857   41,866   44,502
Hydro                                  14         8       53        51        20        23       15        41
Net Energy Purchased (GWh)
SPEPB                                  -        -       146       693    1,055    1,314    1,629    1,279
Capacity Factor '2) /a                 69.6     69.6      74.2      78.2      77.5     75.4      70.3      67.3
SPEPB                               72.3      72.7      77.3      81.1     80.4      78.4      73.5      70.6
Local & captive plants              50.4      47.9      42.1      45.7      48.2     52.0      50.7      46.4
Peak Demand (NW) Lb
SPEPB                              2,675    3,110    3,261   3,9846    4,420    4,810    5,300    6,248
Energy Sales (GWh)
SPEPB                             18,242   19,937   22,212   23,313   25,470   29,599   32,702   34,922
System Losses
Plant use (2)                       7.31      7.29      7.31      7.10      7.00     7.10      7.20      7.30
SPEPB                                7.30     7.28      7.30      7.09      6.92     6.76      6.74      6.95
Local & captive plants              8.32      8.21      8.00      7.70      7.80     8.07      7.50      7.70
T&D losses (2)                      8.91      3.80      8.63      8.75     8.80      8.53      8.71      8.73
SPEPB                               5.28      5.25      5.12      5.43     5.81      5.24      5.40      6.0C
Total (2)                           15.60    15.40    15.30    15.10    15.20    15.00    15.30    15.2(
SPEPB                               12.20    12.10    12.00    12.10    12.30    11.80    11.90    11.9(
Average Coal Consumption
(Standard Coal) (g/kWh)                 383      379       378       378       377      382       383       3r
SPEPB                                 373      370       369       374       371      368       367       3t
Local & captive plants                644      619       620       632       603      559       560       S.
Number of Customers                239,441  254,806  271,341  285,847  304,176  329,311  341,742  362,43
Number of Employees tc              31,980   32,678   33,153   37,151   38,606   38,882   39,811   42,02
Sales per Employee (kWh)/c         570,419  610,105  669,985  627,520  659,742  761,260  821,451  831,08
/a  Based on average installed capacity of the year.
/b  Not including demand met by captive plants and local generation (see also Annex 12).
/e Employees including only administration, generation, supply, and services.
Source: SPEPB.



-54 -                                ANNEX 6
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SPEPB Staff inA
(As of December 31, 1990)
Number of units   Number of staff         Z
By Specialty
Staff
Administration /a                                          5,849             9.5
Technical
Engineers & technicians                                  5,138             8.4
Subtotal                                               10.987            17.9
Workers
Junior                                                     4,483
Average skilled                                           17,820
Highly skilled                                            18,172
Apprentices                                                2,232
Subtotal                                               42.707            69.7
Others                                                     7.546            12.4
Total                                                  61.240           100.0
By Functional Units
Headquarters                               15                295             0.5
Generation                                 18             25,559            41.7
Supply & services                          15             16,166            26.4
Construction & installation                 5             14,699            24.0
Education                                   5              1,148             1.9
Design                                      1                663             1.0
Repair                                      2              1,508             2.5
Miscellaneous                               3              1,202             2.0
Total                                   64             61.240           100.0
la Including personnel, finance and accounting, and social welfare.
Source: SPEPB.



- S5 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAB THERMAL POWER PROJECT 1/
Planning. Budget and Control of Chinese Power Bureaus
1.        All power bureaus are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans. These plans are integrated with the
national plans and are approved by SPC through MOE and SEIC auspices. MOE and
SEIC play a major role in shaping the bureaus' individual plans. MOE and
regional administrations use past operating results from the bureaus to com-
pile the quantities and related prices to be used by the bureaus in developing
their operating plans. The investment plans are developed on a project-by-
project basis using estimates of quantities and prices of inputs included in
feasibility studies prepared by the regional design institutes. However, the
investment plans do not take into account movements in prices after the final
design is completed. Thus, in the planning process, the bureaus themselves do
not make a direct linkage between their projected and realized costs. The
bureaus' operating plans do include monitoring indicators, and variance
analyses are conducted to compare quantities actually produced or consumed
with plan targets. Because the bureaus themselves do not link their plan
targets directly to realized financial performance, the variance analyses are
not very useful as tools to indicate either of operational efficiency or the
efficiency of their operations and cost effectiveness of investment programs.
Nevertheless, this approach to planning served reasonably well under China's
centrally planned economy, when large grants were used to finance large por-
tions of investment and prices were maintained at stable levels.
2.        Until 1980, all funds required to implement the annual construction
plans were provided through grants allocated from the State budget. The State
also provided minor amounts of financing to cover liquidity requirements
through an account entitled 'Working Capital Funds. Under China's economic
reform program which began around 1978, major changes have been introduced to
encourage economic use of the Government's limited resources. Funds for major
new investments are now being provided in the form of loans from the People's
Construction Bank of China. These loans are made only after projects have
been reviewed extensively and cost estimates have been approved. Co.lstruction
loans, have been carrying an annual interest rate of about 3.6 percent; how-
ever, beginning with new projects such as Ertan and Zouxian, interest rates
are being increased to 9.51 percent. The purpose is to gradually move from
investment financing by Government grants to debt financing at commercial
interest rate. Construction loans are scheduled for repayment over 10-15
years after work is completed.
3.        Until 1984, the power bureaus' operating and investment costs were
kept fairly constant as the whole pricing system were under tight control by
1/ The information presented in this annex is based on information provided
by SPEPB and observations of the mission visiting China in April 1990.



- 56 -                              ANONEX 7
Page 2
the state. However, since then the Government started to relax its control
over the pricing system and gradually allowed some flexibility in the price
movements. In the future, as the power bureaus continue to expand their oper-
ations and as costs become more subject to change due to price escalations,
planning and budgeting will be based increasingly on actual cost data and
projections of productivity, price movements, and interest rates. Further-
more, as the cost of inefficiency increases over time, management will need
better tools to evaluate and control the operations of individual cost cen-
ters.
4.        The Chinese system of planning and budgeting does not make provision
for long term financial planning. In connection with the Lubuge Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 2382-CHA), the Bank furnished MWREP with a financial forecasting
model so that the power bureaus could study the impact of both their expansion
plans and variations in prices on their future financial positions. Under all
subsequent Bank-financed power projects, assurances have been obtained that,
by December 31 of each year commencing in the year following loan signing, the
beneficiary power bureau will furnish the Bank with a financial plan contain-
ing projected income statements, flow of funds statements, and balance sheets
for the next five to eight years. So far, Yunnan, Jiangsu, Guangxi, Fujian,
Zhejiang and Shanghai power bureaus have been required to furnish such rolJine
plans.
5.        MOE and SEIC recognize that they need to modernize the financial and
management procedures followed by the power bureaus. They have authorized
many bureaus to acquire microprocessors for financial, planning, and adminis-
trative purposes. In addition, they have developed some software to allow the
bureaus to produce standard computerized reports on a regular basis. For
their part, most of the power bureaus which already are dealing with the Bank
have computerized some of their personnel, payroll, and administrative records
and are adapting software to computerize materials management, system plan-
ning, and production management. Once the bureaus finish computerizing these
records, they all will be expected to furnish monthly reports to MOE and SEIC
on diskettes rather than on paper. Some of the Bank-financed projects have
included a provision allowing the beneficiary power bureaus to obtain addi-
tional microprocessors and allowing them and MOE to obtain the software sup
port needed to facilitate implementation of this first generation of computer-
ized reporting.
6.        The first generation of computerized reporting should allow MOE,
SEIC, and the power bureaus themselves to process, compile, consolidate and
retain far more information than in the past. However, the computer
approaches used to date have been designed almost exclusively to satisfy the
reporting requirements of MOE and SEIC. The software does not allow for a
more active role for the power bureaus or for a broader use of data by bureau
management. Moreover, the systems being developed still do not include rudi-
mentary financial planning or allow the necessary direct linkages between
realized performance and planning forecasts. Thus, while the systems repre-
sent impressive progress over current reporting systems, a second generation
of reporting systems will be needed to accommodate changes already in progress
in the managerial environment.



_ 57 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 3
7.        During appraisal of the Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-
CHA), the Bank retained a consultant to assess the management and use of data
in MWREP and several power bureaus. His findings confirm that the systems
currently being developed are adequate for the existing environment but are
not flexible enough to adapt to expected future trends. However, HOE and SEIC
have doubts about the substance and extent of these anticipated changes and
prefer to be cautious about making further adjustments to their reporting
procedures in the near term.
8.        In considering ways to modernize financial and management practices,
the Government is taking the initiative in adapting a modern methodology for
use in the Chinese environment. However, given the additional adjustments
that are likely to become necessary within a few years, the Government would
benefit from greater exposure to state-of-the-art technology in management
systems. Under the Beilungang Thermal Power Project (Loan 2706-CHA), the
Yantan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2707-CHA), the Shuikou Hydroelectric Proj-
ect (Loan 2775-CHA), the Wujing Thermal Power Project (Loan 2852-CHA), and the
Ertan Project (Loan 3387-CiA), the Government is obtaining training in up-to-
date financial management and utility accounting practices. Recently, with
the help of Price Waterhouse of Hong Kong and the United States, a training
seminar in financial management was successfully arranged in Chengdu. Elec-
tricite de France also provided overseas training for Chinese officials.
Overseas training and study tours are included in these projects so that
senior officials of relevant governmental units can observe the management
techniques used by atilities a.,d service organizations in other countries.
The first overseas training was held in May 1988, and the outcome was success-
ful. MOE and SEIC plan to have other training sessions in coming years.



- 58-                               ANNEX 8
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SPEPB Electricity Tariffs
(Average Rates 1990)
Rate la /b                 Unit
Li hting
Up to 1 kV                                   17.90                       fen/kWh
Over 1 kV                                    17.50                      fen/kWh
Avera&e                                     17.60                      fen/kWh
Commercial and Small Industry /c
Up to 1 kV                                   14.98                      fenlkWh
1-10 kV                                      15.04                      fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                  14.19                       fen/kWh
Avera&e                                     14.87                      fen/kWh
Large Industry (above 320 kVA)
Energy charge ld
1-10 kV                                      13.11                      fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                  11.40                      fen/kWh
Capacity (per month)
Based on peak demand                          6.00                      Yuan/kW
Based on installed transformer capacity       4.00                      Yuan/kW
Averate                                      12.81                       fen/kWh
Agricultural Production
Direct Supply
Up to 1 kV                                   11.82                      fen/kWh
1-10 kV                                      11.25                      fen/kWh
Above 35 kV                                  11.27                       fen/kWh
Average                                     11.27                      fen/kWh
Bulk Supply
Averagte                                     11.60                       fen/kWh
Others
Average                                      11.44                       fen/kWh
Total Average                              12.71                      fen/kWh
La  The indicated rates include a tax of about Y 10.8 per 1,000 kWh on
generation and a sales tax of 10S of the electricity bill.
lb Including fuel adjustment and additional charge for consumption above the
approved amount, but not including 2 fen/kWh surcharge which is not
revenue to SPEPB.
la This tariff is applied to productive uses. Lighting consumption by
commercial and small industrial consumers is billed at the lighting rate.
/d  Some agriculture-related industries enjoy a discount of I fen7kWh, and
upto 3.2 fen/kWh in the high-price region.
Source: SPEPB.



- 59-                                A X 9
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Maior Generating Facilities in Shandona Province
(As of December 31, 1990)
Name plate         Year of         Dependable
Name of Plant/Unit                  rating (MW)    commissioning    capcity (NW)
1. Zouxian Thermal
No. 1                                300               1985              300
No. 2                                300               1986              300
No. 3                                300               1988              300
No. 4                                300               1989              300
Subtotal                         1.200                               1.200
2. Huangtal Thermal
No. 1                                 25               1959               25
No. 2                                 25               1960               25
No. 3                                 25               1960               25
No. 4                                 50               1965               50
No. 5                                 100              1983              100
No. 6                                 100              1983              100
No. 7                                300               1987              300
No. 8                                300               1990              300.
Subtotal                           925                                 925
3. Shilicuan Thermal
No. 1                                 125              1979              125
No. 2                                 125              1980              125
No. 3                                 125              1981              125
No. 4                                 125              1982              125
No. 5                                 125              1983              125
Subtotal                           625                                 625.
4. Shiheng Thermal
No. 1                                  25              1968               25
No. 2                                  25              1971               25
No. 3                                 35               1972               30
No. 4                                 50               1973               50
No. 5                                300               1987              300
No. 6                                300               1988              300
Subtotal                           735                                 730



-60-                                 ANNEX 9
Page 2
Name plate         Year of         Dependable
Name of Plant/Unit                  rating (MW)    commissioning    capoity (MW)
5. Longkou Thermal
No. 1                                   6              1978                6
No. 2                                100               1984              100
No. 3                                100               1984              100
No. 4                                200               1988              200
No. 5                                200               1988              200
Subtotal                           606                                 606
6. Xirdian Thermal
No. 1                                iOo               1974              100
No. 2                                100               1974              100
No. 3                                200               1976              200
No. 4                                200               1977              200
Subtotal                           600                                 600
7. Laiwu Thermal
No. 1                                 110              1972              110
No. 2                                110               1973              110
No. 3                                110               1975              110
Subtotal                           330                                 330
8. Jining Thtermal
No. 1                                 50               1973               50
No. 2                                 50               1973               50
No. 3                                100               1976              100
No. 4                                100               1978              100
Subtotal                           300                                 30C
9. Huanrdao Thermal
No. 1                                125               1980              125
No. 2                                125               1981              125
No. 3                                210               1989              210
No. 4                                210               1990              210
Subtotal                           670                                 670
10. Zhanhua Therma
No. 1                               125               1978              125
No. 2                               125               1979              125
Subtotal                           250                                 250



-61-                                 ANNEX 9
Page 3
Name plate         Year of          Dependable
Name of Plant/Unit                   rating (NW)    commissioning    capcity (MW)
11. Nandint Thermal
No. 1                                  6              1967                 3
No.2                                   6              1957                 4
No. 3                                 12              1957                 6
No. 4                                 12              1958                10
No. 5                                 12              1969                10
No. 6                                 12              1959                10
No. 7                                 25              1959                25
No. 8                                 25              1960                25
No. 9                                 50              1966                50
Subtotal                            160                                 143
12. Bailanfhe Thermal
No. 1                                 50              1969                50
No. 2                                 50              1970                50
No. 3                                 50              1971                50
Subtotal                            150                                 150
13. Yantai Thermal
No. 1                                 50              1975                50
No. 2                                 50              1976                50
Subtotal                            100                                 100
14. QLngdao Thermal
No. 1                                  6              1957                 5
No. 2                                 12              1958                10
No. 3                                 12              1958                10
No. 4                                 12              1959                10
No. 5                                 25              1960                25
No. 6                                 25              1965                25
No. 7                                 25              1970                25
Subtotal                            117                                1.10



-62-                               ANNEX 9
Page 4
Name plate        Year of         Dependable
Name of Plant/Unit                  rating (MW)    commissioning    capcity (MW)
15. Other Units                         168                               161
16. Total Installed
Capacitv of SPEPB               6.936                              6.900
17. Local & Captive Plants           1.199                              1.100
18. Total Installed CafacitY
of Siangdong Province           8.135                              8.000
Source: SPEPB.



-63-                               ANNEX 10
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Energv Consumption by Category of Consumer /a
Consumers                     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
Agricultural load (GWh)      2.061    2.744    2.868    3.390    3.905    3.449
Drainage & irrigation      1,151    1,555    1,348    1,739    2,055    1,628
Sideline production          786       842    1,091    1,155    1,300    1,276
Others                       125       347      429       496      550       545
Industrial Load (GWH)       17.217   19,337   21.390   24.256   26.451   28.440
Light                      4,519    5,075    5,618    6,558    7,147    7,567
Heavy                     12,698   14,262   15,772   17,698   19,304   20,873
Residential load
(municipal & rural)        1,586    1,903    2,166    2,602    3,022    3,755
Transportation &
Communication               486       476      467       541      545       510
Others                         925    1,072    1,261    1,550    1,737    1,830
Total                  22.275   25.532   28.152   32.339   35.660   37.984
La On provincial basis.
Source: SPEPB.



-64-                                 ANNEX 11
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Power DeveloRment Program for SPG (1991-2000)
A. Generation Stations
Installed              Unit    Construc-      Scheduled
capacity   No. of    size   tion start-         commis-
Name                          (MW)      units      (MW)    ing date        sioning
Zouxian      3rd stage        1,200        2        600        1992      1996, 1997
Qingdao      3rd stage          600        2        300        1993      1995, 1996
Hualu         1st stage         600        2        300        1989      1991, 1992
2nd stage         600        2        300        1991      1993, 1994
Heze          let stage         250        2        125        1989      1991, 1992
Weifang       1st stage         600        2        300        1990      1992, 1993
2nd stage         600        2        300        1997             2000
Longkou      3rd stage          400        2        200        1992      1995, 1996
Shiliquan    4th stage          600        2       300        1992              1994
Weihai                          400        2        200        1991      1993, 1994
Laicheng                        600        2        300        1993      1996, 1997
Jiaxiang                      1,200        2       600         1995      1998, 1999
Shijiu                          6'00       2       300        1995       1998, 1999
Jiaodong                        900        3       300        1996       1999, 2000



-65-                               ANNEX 11
Page 2
B. 500 kV Transmission Line
Substation Construction
Length     capacity      starting       Scheduled
Name                             (km)         (MVA)        date         completion
Zouzian-Jinan-Weifang              5         lx500         1989             1991
lx500         1992             1994
Zouxian-Zibo                     238                        1988            1994
20        1x750          1991            1994
Dezhou-Zibo                      220         1x750          1991            1993
Zibo-Weifang (2nd line)          110                       1997             1999
Jiaxiang-Jinan-Zibo              270                       1996             1998
1x500         1996            1998
Zibo 1I Station                   50                       1997             1998
lx500         1997            1998
Source: SPEPB.



ANNEX 12
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
System Demand and Enerty Balance of SPG
System Demand      System CaRacitv        Enerav    Power Purchased             Power Balance
Energy   Peak  Installed  Dependable  Generated  Capacity  Energy  Energy  Capacity  Reserve
(GWh)    (MW)    (MW)          (MW)        (GWh)      (MW)    (GWh)   (GWh)         (MW)  margin (Z)
1990        41,320   6,248        6,9_5        6,600      40,041        200   1,279
(actual)
1991        44,700   6,765        7,361        7,200      43,300        190   1,270    -130       +625          9.2
1992        48,350   7,325        8,086        7,750      46,740        189   1,260    -350       +614          8.4
1993        52,310   7,930        8,886        8,550      50,900        188   1,250    -160       +808         10.2
1994        56,600   8,590        9,386        9,350      55,210        187   1,240    -150       +947         11.0
1995        61,200   9,290       10,486       10,150      59,870        186   1,230    -100    +1,046          11.3
1996        66,100  10,040       11,886       11,550      64,830        185   1,220      -50    +1,695         16.9)'
1997        71,400  10,850       12,786       12,750      70,190        184   1,210        0    +2,084         19.2
1998        77,100  11,730       13,686       13,650      75,900        183   1,200        0    +2,103         18.0
1999        83,200  12,680       14,886       14,850      82,010        182   1,190        0    +2,352         18.5
2000        89,800  13,700       16,086       16,050      88,620        181   1,180        0    +2,531          18.5
Note:  (a) The dependable capacity of a thermal unit is its rated capacity unless it has to be derated from
some reason.
(b) The dependable capacity of SPG in 1990 is calculated as follows:  8,135 - 1,199 (local and
captive plants not connected to the system ) - 36 (derated capacity) - 300 (capacity completed at
end of 1990).
(c) The energy generation of thermal unit is calculated at an annual capacity factor of 68.5 percent
(6,000 hours) for the first year, 74.2 percent (6,500 hours) for the second year, and thereafter.



- 67-                              ANNEX 13
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERNAL POWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
The Proiect
1.        The thermal power plant is located at Zouxian, about 175 km south of
Jinan, the capital of Shandong Province. It is owned by the Shandong Provin-
cial Electric Power Bureau (SPEPB). The Zouxian Thermal Power Project con-
sists of three phases of development. The first phase, involving two units of
300 MW each, already has been commissioned. The second phase, involving two
additional units of 300 MW, also has been completed; one unit was commissioned
in November 1988 and the other in November 1989. The proposed project repre-
sents the third phase development, involving the addition of two 600 MW gener-
ating units to the plant's ultimate capacity of 2,400 MW. The construction of
civil works and installation of plant will be carried out by local construc-
tion forces under SPEPB's supervision. The target completion dates are
December 31, 1996, for the first unit and December 31, 1997, for the second
unit.
2.        The following components will be included under the proposed proj-
ect:
(a) two coal-fired steam turbo-generating units, each having a normal
nameplate rating of 600 MW, complete with all electric and mechani-
cal accessories and auxiliaries as well as control equipment;
(b) coal-handling and storage facilities;
(c) ash disposal faQilities;
(d) 500 kV step-up substation, the associated transmission line and sub
stations;
(e) intake structure, cooling water towers, fresh water supply and water
treatment system; and
(f) all associated buildings and structures such as chimney, foundations
for plant equipment, power house, and auxiliary structures.
Procurement
3.        The civil works, plant installation, and turbine generator sets will
be procured locally through local financing. The boiler and auxiliaries
island, turbine auxiliaries package, instrumentation and control island, elec-
trical equipment island, equipment and materials for transmission and substa-
tions, equipment for plant erection and construction materials, all financed
under the proposed World Bank loan will be procured by international competi-



-68-                               ANNEX 13
Page 2
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines
and the Model Procurement Documents for China.
Local Consultant
4.        The conceptual design, engineering, and detailed design of the proj-
ect are being carried out by the Northwest China Electric Power Design Insti-
tute (NWCEPDI) in Xian. The China International Engineering Consulting Corpo-
ration (CIECC), as the leading firm, supported by the China Power Engineering
Consulting Corporation (CPECC) in Beijing, will provide the overall consulting
services. These two entities will mainly:
(a) review the bid documents on the island concept prepared by NWCEPDI;
(b) assist in the prebidding meeting;
(c)  assist in the evaluation of bids.
Foreign Consultant
5.        A fore£gn consulting firm will be used to p-ovide the following sup
port to the owner and NWCFPDI.
Stage 1 Services
(a)  Prepare bidding documents for the boiler, and assist in preparing
and reviewing bidding documents for the turbine auxiliaries package,
electrical equipment island, and instrumentation and control island.
(b) assist the owner of the project in the prebidding meeting, bid eval-
uation, preparation of bid evaluation reports, and contract negotia-
tion for boiler island, elbctrical equipment island, and instrumen-
tation and control island.
Stage 2 Services
(a) assist with the interfacing for the engineering and design of dif-
ferent islands, including the turbine generator island;
(b) assist in reviewing shop drawings and other detailed drawings, tech-
nical documents, and calculations submitted by the manufacturers of
major equipment;
(c) provide support to the owner of the project for construction manage-
ment;
(d) attend and provide assistance in design liaison meetings;
(e) provide any other consultir assistance that may be requested by the
owner.



- 69 -                            ANNEX 13
Page 3
6.        In the preparation of bidding documents for major equipment, the
consulting firm should help to ensure that the contents of the various islands
do not allow for any gaps or overlap between the islands.
7.        During all stages of project implementation, the consultant should
act in close cooperation with NWCEPDI, and in the best interest of SPEPB, the
owner.
ExDenses for Foreign Consulting Firm
8.        The financial proposal should provide an itemized estimate of the
man-months and costs involved in both stages of the project. The contract
will be made as a single package covering both Stage 1 and Stage 2 services.
The service charges for Stage 1 and Stage 2 should be quoted separately by the
consulting firm.
Local SuDsort
9.        The owner and NWCEPDI will provide the following local support for
the project activities:
(a) make available to the foreign consulting firm all the basic data,
information, and documents needed to carry out its services;
(b) provide all the services required for the foreign consulting firm to
carry out its work in China efficiently, including office space,
facilities and supplies, telex communication, local transportation,
and translation and typing services.
Time Schedule
10.       The foreign consulting services should be completed within the fol-
lowing time frame:



ANNEX 13
- 70 -                             Page 4
Scope of Services                                   Scheduled Date of Completion
Prepare bidding documents for boiler                          December 15, 1991
Assist in preparing, reviewing and finalizing
other bidding documents                                       September 15, 1992
Assist in evaluating bids for boiler                          October 15, 1992
Assist in evaluating bids for other islands                   June 30, 1993
Assist in interfacing                                         June 30, 1994
Assist in reviewing supplier's drawings                       December 31, 1994
Provide support in construction management                    December 31, 1996



- 71-                              ANNEX 14
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWFR PROJECT
Development of Methodologies and Guidelines to Minimize
Air Pollution from Thermal Power Stations Sited
in Coastal/Complex Regions
Background and Justification
1.        The shortage of electric power in China has become a serious con-
straint to the country's economic development, and electric generating capac-
ity must be expanded rapidly. Current medium- and long-term plans call for
situating many new power plants in the coastal provinces, as these areas have
a large demand for power. Current estimates suggest that the coastal
provinces will have an additional 30,000 MW of capacity by the year 2000 and
will expand capacity substantially beyond that in subsequent years. Because
it is economical to utilize domestic coal, most of the new plants will be
fired by coal. The use of coal makes it essential to examine in advance the
impact of operating these units on air quality. Steps must be taken to ensure
that the plants conform to modern standards of pollution control and are
located in areas where they will have the smallest impact on the environment.
A strategy is needed which will guarantee a reasonable arrangement of appro-
priately located and properly sized thermal power plants.
2.        Recently, more than ten sites for coal-fired power plants have been
selected along China's coastline. For each of these plants, a feasibility
study and environmental impact assessment was completed. Several of these
assessments utilized air quality models adopted from ones available in devel-
oped countries. However, these models were not designed for coastal areas,
where the diffusion characteristics of the atmospheric boundary layer differ
significantly from those found further inland. Results have shown that the
models utilized in the impact assessments are not suitable for the Chinese
coastal situation; at best, the models assume a coastal region with flat ter-
rain, while the Chinese coast is very rough, and has complex meteorological
conditions. Continued use of these models may lead to serious errors in pre-
dicting the impact of new plants on air quality.
3.        To improve on the environmental impact assessments, new techniques
need to be developed which take into account the conditions of the Chinese
coastland in making decisions about the design of new power plants. In addi-
tion, longer range planning models (mesoscale models) are needed to provide
preliminary estimates of air quality conditions over larger areas. The use of
longer range models will allow initial siting estimates and their influence on
air quality to be made for the years 2000 and beyond.
4.        The results obtained from these two types of modelling efforts will
permit a series of regulations and guidelines to be prepared which will guide
decision makers in locating power facilities so as to minimize effects on air
quality.



- 72-                                 _  14
Page 2
5.        The program outlined below is designed to achieve these objectives.
Management of the Proaram
6.        In order to keep the implementation of this complex program on sche-
dule and maintain its focus, a management committee is proposed.  The com it-
tee will review the results of each study phase (interim report) as well as
the work program for the subsequent phase, discuss the status of the program
with the Bank, and provide decisions and coments as appropriate. The commit-
tee will be chaired by the Ministry of Energy (Department of Safety and Envi-
ronmental Protection) and its membership will include the State Energy Invest-
ment Corporation (Department of Power Development and Technology) and related
power bureaus. The committee will share information with NEPA.
Outline of the Study Proaram
7.        Phase I:    Evaluation of Existing Field Results and Existien  Model-
int Canabilities
Obiective:  Examine results of air quality at existing
coastal power stations and compare with
predictions provided by currently available
models to determine the extent of the prob-
lem.
Task A:     Collect existing data for power plants at
Qingdao, Beilungang, Jiaxing, Songyu and
Yinkou.
- Meteorological data
- Air Quality data (ambient/emission)
- Power plant data (physical/operational)
- Topographic data
- Pollution source inventory
Task B:     Analyze Task A data for completeness, accu-
racy, consistency (particularly descriptions
of wind fields and temperature field, etc.)
Task Cs     Obtain computer packages of best available
mathematical models and run these models
under the field conditions of Tasks A/B.
Compare calculated air quality with measured
results.
Determinet  Conditions (meteorological, oceanographic,
topographic) under which they are accurate
and conditions under which they are in sub-
stantial error. Analyze the results--are
they consistently high, consistently low, or
indeterminate? Evaluate costs, data



73                              ANNEX 14
Page 3
requirements and complexity of use (training
requirements).
Task D:     Determine current research/development
efforts to improve these models (training
program, 18 person-months; discussions with
researchers in USEPA, US universities, and
European institutions).
Task Es     Prepare a report on findings, submit to
committee for review.
8.        Phase II:   Estimation of Coastal Areas with High Pollution Poten-
tial
Objective:  Determine the coastal areas which are expe-
riencing air quality problems or, which have
planned power generation programs and are
likely to experience such problems in the
future.
Task A:     Establish baseline air quality information
for coastal areas. Collect and evaluate
data on dust, SO2 and NOX.
Task B:     Review siting plans for future coastal power
plants (size, location, likely type and
composition of coal). Focus on years 2000
to 2015.
Task C:     Project likely changes in overall air qual-
ity using mesoscale air quality models.
Task D:     Identify critical pollution areas.
Task E:     Prepare a report on findings, submit to
committee for review.
Committee decision to be made from report--should future policies
focus on: refined mnodeling predictions, regulations on sulfur diox-
ide emissions, or locating power generating facilities in less crit-
ical regions (siting pol4.cy)?
The following program will continue in accordance with the discus-
sions in the committee.
9.        Phase III:  Evaluation of ApproRriate Modeling Systems for Areas
Anticipated to be Critical in Air Oualitv
Objective:  To identify the best type of modeling
approaches for the areas determined to have
a high potential for pollution.



_74                                ANNEX 14
Page 4
Task A:     With information from Phase I/Tasks C and D,
determine if existing (or emerging) mathe-
matical models will be acceptable in criti-
cal areas. (Consultations with invited
foreign experts--2 person-months--in mathe-
matical, air/water physical modeling tech-
niques will be required).
Task B:     If existing models are not appropriate,
determine (with foreign consultancies) addi-
tional modeling requirements. Specify the
following:
- Time and cost needed to modify existing
mathematical models-include time and cost
to satisfy data requirements, run model,
develop new model, and likely improve-
ments in accuracy expected over current
models.
- Best physical modeling system (air or
water). Time/cost to construct facili-
ties, include foreign consultancies and
study tours for staff training. Time/
cost to operate facilities and collect
appropriate data. Likely improvements in
accuracy expected over current capabili-
ties.
Task C:     Determine if more than one modeling system
should be considered: advan-
tages/limitations of each system, costs,
time to develop, data requirements, training
and skills necessary.
Task D:     Based upon systems recommended:  Define work
program for model(s) development; time and
costs (include international consultancies--
1 person-month, study tours--24 person-
months, etc.).
Task E:     Prepare report for committee.
10.       Phase IV:   Model DeveloDment and Calibration
Obiective:  Implement findings for previous phase and
verify accuracy of models developed.
Task A:     Implement work program of Phase III, Task D.
Task B:     Confirm predictions of improved models with
field test data for Phase I, Task A.



-75-                               ANNEX 14
Page 5
Task C:     Prepare report for committee.
11.       Phase V:    Develooment of Siting Standards and Guidelines
Obiective: Utilize models developed to provide simpli-
fied methods for rapid assessment of site
acceptability and power plant characteris-
tics with a properly designed series of
model runs:
Task A:     Identify acceptable meteorologi-
cal/topographical parameters for consider-
ation in power plant siting.
Task B:     Determine constraints on power plant physi-
cal/operational characteristics (fuel compo-
sition, stack height, number of stacks,
etc.) for consideration in power plant
design.
Task C:     Combine results of Tasks A and B above to
develop appropriate guidelines and regula-
tions for siting power plants in coastal
areas.
Task Ds     Prepare a report for committee.
12.       Phase VI:   Develovment of Technical Skills for Control of Sulfur
Dioxide from Thermal Power Stations
Obiective: Expand Chinese knowledge base on technolo-
gies available for sulfur dioxide control to
identify areas of applicability or further
research to adapt technologies to Chinese
conditions. Carryout study tours to examine
latest technology developments, research in
progress, and commercial status. Specific
areas/tours to be considered include:
Task A:     Flue gas desulfurization test (design and.
operation):
- Laboratory test (visits to USEPA)
- Bench-scale test (visits to USEPA)
- Pilot rigs (visits to USEPA)
Task B:     Flue gas desulfurization systems
- Regenerable and nonregenerable systems,
including seawater scrubbing systems



- 76 -                            ANNEX; 14
Page 6
(visits to US, Germany, Japan and Sweden)
US visits include TVA and EPA.
- Dry scrubbing systems.
Task C:     Limestone injection in burners, visits to
USEPA, Austria (Graz), others.
Task D:     Prepare report on findings, identifying
possibilities for China's power sector and
research needed to adapt/modify systems ^.or
use in Cbina.
Task E:     Establish laboratory to investigate sulfur
dioxide control systeras.



-77? -                            ANNEX 14
Table 1
Table 1: AIR POLLUTION CUNTROL PROGRAM FOR COASTAL POWER PLANTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Amount of Work
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   (person-months)
12mos                                             24
Phase I:   Task A                     *-_------*
12mos                                         24
Task B                       *---------*
18mos
Task C                    *--------------                                       36
6mos                                          18
Task D                           *-    *
2mos                                     2
Task E
12mos                                             24
Phase II:  Task A                      *---------*
6mos                                               6
TaskB                      *-*
12mos                                      24
Task C                            *---------*
2mos                                 2
Task D                                     *--- *
2mos                                 2
Task E
6mos                  12
Phase III: Task A                                                   -------
6mos                    24
Task B/C                                            *--------*
6mos                         24
Task D                                              -----*
2mos                      8
Task E
Phase IV:  Task A (Math. mod.)                    18 mos                                    36
(phy. mod.)                   24 mos                                    96
6mos                           12
Task B                                         *------*
3mos                           3
Task C                                            *___*
Phase V:   Task A/B/C                                                    6mos               18
Task D                                                       2mos                2
6mos                                         6
Phase VI:  Task A                            *-------*
6mos                                       12
Task B                           *------- *
3mos                                            9
Task C
12mos                                   24
Task D                                 *-------*
18mos                    90
Task E                                       *-------      *



ANNE% 14
-78 -                                          Table 2
Table 2: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM FOR COASTAL POWER PLANTS -- COST ESTIMATE
Local cost                        Foreign cost
(Thousand Yuan)                (Thousand US Dollarf
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4   Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  1ar 4
Phase I:    Monitoring Systems                                             200
Study Tours
(18 person-months)                                             40
Computer Program                                                S
Labor                      150      50
Phase II:   Computer                                                       100
Labor                      50       50
Phase III:  Consultation                                                            30
Training Program
(24 person-months)                                                     60
Labor                               50       50
Phase IV:   Equipment for Physical
Modelling                                                           150      100
Labor and Building                 100      100
Phase V:    Labor                                                 50
Phase VI:   Study Tours
(27 person-months)                                                     65
Equipment for
Desulphurization Lab.                                               150
Labor and Building                  50      100      50
Totai                             200     300      250      100      345      305     250
GRAND TOTAL                       ----------- 850 -----------        ------------ 900 ----------



- 79 -                             ANNEX 15
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERNAL POWER PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Tariff Study
Objectives and Scope of the Study
1.        A tariff action plan will be undertaken by SPEPB in order to improve
the structure of tariffs based on the major findings of the East China power
pricing study (Annex 15, Attachment). A time-phased reform of tariffs will be
carried out to bring tariffs more into line with the cost of supply for vari-
ous consumer categories, reflect the cost differences associated with varia-
tions in consumers' usage patterns and between main voltage levels of deliv-
ery, and reduce subsidies to consumers other than low-income groups. In order
to meet the specific conditions of the Shandong provincial power grid, a study
of the level, structure, and improvement program for tariffs will be
undertaken. It will serve as the basis for implementing the action plan over
the four-year period. In particular, this study will look into the practical
problems raised by the transition from the existing to the proposed pricing
arrangements.
2.        The tariff study for the Shandong pzovincial grid will include the
following tasks:
(a) Review of existing pricing, metering/billing arrangements for the
Shandong power grid;
(b) Load analysis and forecasting with emphasis on large consumers;
(c) Analysis of the financial and economic costs of power system expan-
sion and operation;
(d) Calculation of the selling price of new plant output to the grid,
according to debt servicing requirements;
(e) Calculation of minimum tariff levels on the basis of existing cove-
nants and requirements for debt service coverage;
(f) Review of current practices regarding to power construction fund
surcharge, its weight in consumer bills and the role in sector
financing;
(g) Design of a new tariff structure which follows the orientation and
timing of the agreed Action Plan;
(h) Analysis of the impact of tariff options on the power bureau's
finances and metering/billing system;



- 80-                              ANNEX 15
Page 2
(i) Impact of tariff adjustments on commodity prices and the finances of
consumers, especially those with high levels of electricity consump-
tion; and
(j)  Selection of tariff structure and level to implement under the
Action Plan.
Organization, Scheduling and Resources
3.        The study will be carried out by the Beijing Economic Research
Institute and SPEPB under MOE auspices. The Shandong Planning Committee and
Price Bureau will provide assistance for the study. The study will be
reviewed by consultants experienced in restructuring tariffs. The findings of
the study will be presented in a preliminary report and in a final report.
The preliminary report will focus on the measures of the Action Plan to be
executed in the second and third year. The final report will focus on the
measures to be executed by the fourth year and on the long range targets. MOE
and SPEPB will exchange views with the State Price Bureau and the Bank on the
progress and findings of the study.
4.        Key dates in the timetable for the study are planned as follows:
Start-up                       July 1991
Preliminary report             September 1992
Final report                   February 1993



- 81 -                           ANNEX 15
Attachment
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Major Findings of the East China Power Pricing Study
1.        Price reform is central to improving the efficiency of energy use
and strengthening the financial position of the power subsector. Changes in
power prices are made imperative by the large expansion program which is
needed to alleviate shortages of electric power in China. The study is
designe  vo provide guidance in establishing a schedule for power tariffs
which will gradually substitute for the present allocation system based on
physical quotas. The study does not address issues relating to the finance
and taxation system of the Chinese power bureau.
2.        The major findings and policy recommendations from the study are as
follows:
(a) The present schedule of tariffs and complementing pricing arrange-
ments for bulk power purchases, bulk sales and retail sales, do not
adequately reflect either the level or the structure of power supply
costs;
(b) A systematic reform of power tariffs should be substituted for the
present pricing policies and should be undertaken by the government
without resorting to a two-tiered pricing system;
(c) The new tariff should be based on four criteria: economic
efficiency, fairness to consumers, simplicity, and financial viabil-
ity for the owners of power supply facilities; these are consistent
with the State Council Guidelines of May 1985;
(d)  The next ta,get for power price reform is to adopt a pricing policy
for bulk purchases and retail sales which is based on a regional
average of long-run marginal costs of supply for all categories
except residential consumers;
(e) The transition to the recommended target should be completed by the
end of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1995) and should be implemented at
varying paces depending on technical and socioeconomic consider-
ations.
B. Cost of Service
3.        The cost analysis is based on the least cost development plan for
the East China grid. 'he results show the service cost ranging from 11 to
36 fen per kWh. These costs are among the lowest in the world, mainly because
China is well endowed with inexpensive labor and coal resources.



-82-                            ANNEX 15
Attachment
Page 2
4.        Comparisons between the above costs of service and revenues from
existing pricing arrangements reveal subsidies of 50 percent and above for
most customers. The exceptions are those industries with high load factors,
which pay the 2 fen/kWh surcharge; these industries generally exhibit a sub-
sidy ranging from 25 percent to 35 percent. In the total amount of subsidies
identified by the study, residential uses account for only about 7 percent.
C. Desain of Sales Rate
5.        The structure of economic costs for power services over East China's
interconnected grid is simple enough to be reflected in the power tariff with
only a few modifications. There are no marked differences from one season to
the next. When there are geographical differences such as between rural and
urban areas, there is a strong presumption that a uniform regional tariff
would not distort the choices of most customers. A priority in the design of
the target tariff is to reflect cost differences between high, medium and low
voltages, and between peak and off-peak--especially for bulk power purchases
and sales to the largest and most price-elastic customers. Subsidies for
residential sales need not be completely eliminated at this stage of aevelop-
ment.
6.        No block tariffs are proposed to either encourage or discourage
specific uses of electricity. Quotao and rationing are not expected to dis-
appear in the short run, but would be phased out gradually. In the meantime,
no price discrimination is recommended for consumption levels above and below
quota: such discrimination would (a) perpetuate the use of quotas even after
their usefulness as rationing tools has disappeared; and (b) perpetuate--and
amplify as consumption grows--the pernicious impact of current practices on
consumer income and efficiency of energy use.
D. Tariff Guidelines for Bulk Purchases
7.        The terms for large bulk purchases by ECEPA must be negotiated on a
case-by-case basis within guidelines that are consistent with the proposed
sales tariff nptions. A ceiling for the purchase price can be determined from
the siystem marginal costs. For peak power guaranteed the year round, the
corresponding capacity cost savings is Y 340/kW/year. Spot power purchases
would carry no capacity value; kilowatt hours would in all cases carry a fuel
value. lwo-part (kW and kWh) purchase tariffs should be the rule to stimulate
a higher dependability of independent generation at peak.
E. Financial Viability
8.        The income from the target selling rate would amount to 13.5 fen/kWh
at 1986 prices, art increase of 60 percent over the present level; one-fifth of
the increase would be due to the increase in coal prices. A gradual transi-
tion to the target power rate is necessary and financially feasible. In the
base scenario, the transition to the target rate is assumed to take place in
six years, between 1989 and 1995.



-83-                            ANNEX 15
Attachment
Page 3
S.        A set of normative forecasts was prepared which provides a test of
financial viability for the proposed tariff. First, all new loans are assumed
to carry a nominal interest rate of 8 percent per annum. Second, the cash
requirements for all the new large plants are brought into the projections by
assuming that ECEPA would finance, own, and operate these plants. After
remittances to government, the self-financing ratio under the proposed tariff
reform would be 37 percent in 1995. The debt service coverage would remain
about 1.5.  The debt/equity ratio would remain under 60/40 in the period 1990-
95. This ratio is lower than in other developing countries, but, it is con-
gruent with the specific financial and economic conditions and size of the
power investment program in China.
F. Implementation Strategy
10.       The proposed tariff reform represents a change in more than the
existing rate level. The reform also Implies modifications in the following:
(a) The revenue sharing of sales proceeds between the various owners of
productive assets in the power subsector.
(b) Metering and billing procedures for large consumers to allow demand
charge contracting and time-of-day variations in kW and kWh charges.
(c) The classification of customers now based on occupation and usage to
better reflect the parameters influencing cost of service.
11.       With re.!erence to (a) two policy measures are reccm ended.  First,
the surcharges levied by local government to finance power facilities would be
eliminated at the start of the reform. At the outset, purchase tariffs would
provide enough incentives for potential investors, so surcharges should not be
required. Second, the 70/30 split of revenue from retail sales between ECEPA
and the local power distributors would gradually be replaced by a buy and sell
mechanism based on the new tariffs.
12.       The gap between existing and target revenues exceeds 50 percent for
all categories except the high load factor industries, the rural demand which
occurs exclusively at night, and residential customers. The reform must pro-
ceed at varied paces: under the base scenario, the reform is completed by
1992 for the 110-kV and 35-kV consumers and by 1995 for all ti' other consum-
ers. Real increases in revenue from a large number of users would need to be
realized starting in 1989. Information campaigns clearly conveying the thrust
and scope of the reform would be required all along.
13.       The impact of the power tariff reform has been assessed on 200 com-
modities.  Eased on that examination, only 16 commodities experience price
increases of more than 5 percent by 1995. The largest increases are for caus-
tic soda (13.1 percent), aluminum (12.5 percent), ceramics, glass, and paper
(10 percent to 7 percent). However, some of this increase could be avoided by
shifting power demand off peak.



- 84-                              ANNEX 16
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Action Plan for Power Tariff Structure Improvements
Background
1.         The tariff structure should reflect the cost of electric power
service in Shandong, with certain exceptions for household and rural users.
Improvements in the existing tariff structure are particularly needed in order
to:
(a)  reflect cost differences between the main voltage levels of deliv-
ery;
(b) reflect cost differences arising from marked variations in con-
sumer's usage patterns, viz, load factor and intensity of peak time
demand; and
(c) reduce subsidies for consumers falling outside low income groups.
(d) gradually reduce the disparity of tariff among regions.
2.        In the pursuit of these objectives, the government of Shandong Prov-
ince has agreed to take all measures required to implement the plan of action
described below.
ProWrt'm to be Executed in the First Year (1992)
3.        A study of the tariff level, structure, and improvement program will
be carried out specifically for the Shandong Provincial Grid. Terms of refer-
ence for the study are included in Annex 15.
Program to be Executed in the Second and Third Years (1993, 1994)
(a) For large and medium-size businesses and industrial consumers:
increase the kW or kVA charges (and if necessary reduce the kWh
charges) to reflect relative capacity costs and energy costs; and
(b) For small industry and commercial uqerss bring kWh charges to an
adequate level with respect to the average revenue projected under
the two-part tariff for large industries.



-85 -                              ANNEX 16
Page 2
Program to be Executed in the Fourth Year (1995)
(a) For large and medium-size businesses and industrial consumers:
(1) increase the difference in tariffs between high and medium
voltage to reflect network costs and energy lossest and
(ii)  introduce optimal time-of-day kWh tariffs and differentiated KW
charges for low load factor users and incremental demand con-
tracted off peak.
(b)  For agriculture bring kWh charges to a level at least equal to the
cost of generation.
(c) For small industry and commercial users, maintain energy charges to
an adequate level with respect to the tariff for medium and large
industry.



-86-                                ANNEX 17
Page l
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Institutional Development and Training Proaram
Background and Objectives
1.        The Snandong Power Grid is an independent electric network.  It
includes 15 power plants, 7 of which have capacities in excess of 600 HW. At
the end of 1990 the grid had a total installed capa.city of 6,936 MW and a
gross generation of 40,041 GWh. At that time, SPEPB employed 61,240 workers,
only 10 percent of which were engineers and technicians. Due to the rapid
expansion of SPEPB, 18,000 more employees are expected to be hired by the year
2000. In addition, SPEPB's training facilities, schools and colleges need
modern teaching aids and equipment. To meet the need for increased training
and facilities a comprehensive training program has been prepared. The ulti-
mate goal of the program is to make SPEPB operationally efficient and finan-
cially self-sufficient.
2.        The project will address the need to strengthen the managerial capa-
bility of SPEPB in order for it to function as an autonomous enterprise with a
sound technical and financial foundation. Existing training centers and pro-
fessional schools will be equipped with modern training facilities including
computers, simulators, and audiovisual teaching aids. Laboratories and work-
shops will be equipped with advanced technology, and the standard and quality
of teaching will be upgraded. The program will help to increase the number of
specialized staff at the professional and operational levels and will enhance
training facilities. A special feature of the training program will be to
develop a management information system for senior management to use in its
decision making process.
3.        Two types of training programs will be arranged.  One will be pro-
vided in the form of local seminars, short courses and training centers, with
the assistance of local and foreign experts. The other will provide study
tours and internships abroad. Specialized training in the financial, commer-
cial, and planning areas will be provided through consultants' services.
Since this type of training is already included under ongoing Bank loans *in
the power sector, it will be necessary to coordinate the training with other
power bureaus.
Proposed Training Program
4.        The proposed training program has been designed to address the above
considerations. The program will be used to upgrade the skills of about 435
SPEPB staff in the areas of administration, management, finances, and techni-
cal matters. A "train the trainer" program for the teaching staff of profes-
tional schools will be part of the overall training program. The following
sections address the main topics of the training activities, the implementa-



87 -
Page 2
tion schedule, number of perso.nel to be trained in China and overseas, and
the training equipment and aids to be imported.
Main To0ics for Training Program
5.        The main topics of the training are proposed as follows:
(a) Management
(i) Utility Management
(ii) Manageme. Information System
(iii)  Automatic Le,, Dispatching
(b) Professional Trainina
(i)  Long-term strategic/financial planning, including financial
forecasting and project evaluation
(ii) Managerial accounting, including responsibility accounting,
costing and pricing system
(iii)  Debt management, asset management, and cash management
(iv) Budgetary control (capital and recurrent budget), internal
control including internal audit
(v)  Computer applications for MIS, costing, reporting, billing,
debt service control, fixed assets and depreciation
(vi) Contract accounting and inflation accounting
(vii)  Managerial accounting
(c) Technical
(i) Power development programming and expansion
(ii) Power network planning and analysis
(iii)  System protection
(iv) System investments
(v)  Environmental monitorire
Proiect-Related Training
6.        This type of training will include:



- 88-                              ANNEX 17
Page 3
(a) on-the-job training for engineering and design staff, by providing
opportunities for them to work together with the consultants;
(b) training of electrical and mechanical staff by suppliers of major
equipment included under the contracts;
(c) training of operation and maintenance staff.
7.        The training program for SPEPB staff in China and overseas is shown
in Tables 1 and 3.  A development plan for the technical schools is given in
Table 2.  Project related training is given in Table 4.
Teaching Materials and Eauipment
8.        Specialized teaching materials and equipment will be required to
modernize and expand existing schoo'.s and training facilities. The proposed
list of goods is shown in Table 5.
Cost of Training Component
9.        The base cost of the training component is estimated to be $3.5 mil-
lion, including $1.3 million in local costs. A summary of base foreign costs
is shown in Table 6.



-89                                         ANNEX 17
Table 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERNAL POWER PROJECT
Action Progrri for TraininR
To equip high-level                 Provide seminars, arrange           Detailed TOR to ba prepared
managerial staff with scien-        realistic training programs         by SPEPB.
tific management techniques,        and study tours locally Po
entrepreneurial skills and          vell as overseas for long-
sound management capabili-          term strategic financial
ties.                               planning, management informa-
tion system, inf;-tion ac-
counting, costing and pric-
ing, contract and management
accounting.
To enable management staff to       Provide training in electric
take sound decisions usiag          power development, electric
advanced technologies and           power network planning, elec-
methodsl to allow SPEPF to          tricity supply and consump-
achieve financial self-suffi-       tion, quality engineering and
ciency; to develop staff            designing, and mechanical
skills to handle increasing         aspects through the use of
automation of grids, higher         simulators and other aids.
voltage transmission, opera-
tional safety, and quality
control.
To ensure smooth implementa-        Provide project-related             Training schemes are being
tion of the proposed project        training to:                        integrated into the bidding
on technical matters, and                                               documents for major equipment
good follow-up after the            (a) Engineering and design          (Table 4)
project ls completed.                    staff for the project
through on-the-job train-
ing with the consulting
engineer engaged for this
project,
(b) Operation and maintenance
staff, using facilities
available overseas and in
Chiua which are similar
to the facilities of this
project; and
(c) Electrical and mechanical
staff working at the pow-
er plant construction
site, by the iendors of
major equipment for this
project in their facto-
ries or on site.
To upgrade the standards of         Develop and improve the qual-       The equipment list and devel-
technical schools and colleg-       ity of the training program         opment plan have been pre-
es of SPEPB in order to             in schools, modernize labora-       pared by SPEPB (Table 5).
Increase the number of quali-       tories and technical facili-
fied students and graduates.        ties.



ANNEX 17
Table 2
CHINA
ZOUSXIA ThERMAL POWER PROJECT
Develoyment Plan for SPEPB's Tec'anical Schools
Current status                             Provosed olan
1991                        1995                          2000
School                     Students  Staff  Graduates  Students  Staff  Graduates  Students  Staff  Graduates
Shandong Staff College          330    115        78        800      200      240          800    200       240
Shandong Secondary
Technical School            1,663    420       332      1,760      450      440        1,760    450       440        o
Boshan Tech. School           1,130    275       375      1,440      350      480        1,440    350       480   r
Weifang Tech. School            990    285       340       1,440     350       480       1,440    350       480
Linyi Tech. School              720    155       246      1,080      260      360        1,080    260       360
Shandong Elec. Power
Institute                       -      -         -        500      200      200          750    250)      250
Shandong No. 2 Provin-
cial Secondary Tech-
nical School                    -      -         -        640      200      160          640    200       160
Staff Secondary Technical.
School                     1,020      43       350      1,600       50      400        1,600     60       400



- 91 -                            ANNEX 17
-~~~~~~ ~~Table  3
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Trainina Program for Management and Technical Staff. 1992-95
Duration
No. of      of     Staff-    Experts  Estimated
Trainees  training  months   required      cost
(months)          (man-month) ($'000)
Training in China
Utility management              40        1.5      60.0       1.5       55.00
Management Information
System                        25        2.0     50.0        2.0      40.00
Automatic dispatching of
electric power system         25        1.5      37.5       1.5       30.00
Advanced technology and
developing trend in
power utility enterprise      20        2.5      50.0       1.5       50.00
Reliability analysis,
precaut4.on and diagnosis
of accident for large
power grid and units          20        2.5      50.0       2.5      50.00
Subtotal                    130       10.0    ?47.5         10     225.00
Trainint Abroad
Senior management staff         25        2.0      50.0                250.00
Professional staff              25        2.0      50.0                250.00
Senior technical staff          25        2.0      50.0                250.00
Technical staff for environ-
mental monitoring training    8         2.5      20.0                100.00
Teacher training                 5        2.0      10.0                 50.00
Operator training               16        2.5      40.0                300.00
Subtotal                    104       13.0    220.0              1.200.00



- 92 -
A-WEX 17
Table 4
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Proiect-Related Trainina Program for Technical Staff
Number of    Training    Staff-   Estimated
Category of staff                   trainees      period      months       cost
(month)                ($'000)
A.  Training for Desian and Engineerina Staff
Design staff                           20            4          80         400
Engineering staff                      25            4         100         500
Total                            45                       180900
B. Training for E'lectrical and Mlechanical Staff
Erection & Constriction Management   20              2          40         200
Testing & Commissioning                20           2           40         200
Operation                              20            3          60         300
Maintenance                            20            3          60         300
Total                            80                       200       1.000
C.  Domestic Trainling for Operation and Maintenance Personnel
Operation engineers                    50           3          150
Maintenance engineers                  50            3         150
Total                           100                       300
Notes  Training for A and B will be included in the Vendor's Contract.
Training for C will be carried out in China.



- 93-                              ANNEX 17
Table 5
CHINA
ZO':XIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Training Eguipment to be Procured
Estimated
Item                                 Specification    Qty  Unit Price         cost
(sets)    ($1,000)   ($1,000)
1. Color projection equipment                          3       8.0         24.0
2. So'tvare for trianing of
simulated management                                2       8.0          16.0
3. Halogen leakage monitor         HAL-8               2       3.0           6.0
4. Portable standard elec-
trical energy meter                                 3       6.0          18.0
5. TOC meter                       TOC                  1                    8.0
6. Automatic Turbidimeter          T-2600DX            2       6.0          12.0
7. Automatic Rockwell
Hardness Meter                  RXT                 2      10.0         20.0
8. Ultrasonic Digital
Thickness Meter                 UTM-200             2       3.0          6.0
9. Universal AC standard
calibrator                      4200                2       6.0          12.0
10. Frequency instrument            2891 Universal
tachometer         1      3.0           3.0
11. Sloping Tiny pressure
instrument (for measuring
hydrogen leak)                  40GDMW              2       2.0           4.0
12. Signal generator                                    4       2.0          8.0
13. Multi-pen recorder                                   1     10.0          10.0
14. Audio-visual teaching equip-
ment                                                2    100.0         200.0
15. Foreign language laboratories                       2      60.0         120.0
16. Vibrating testing equipment                          1    120.0         120.0
17. Laser flow velocity meter                            1     60.0         60.0
18. Video tape of training courses                      2      60.0         120.0
Total                                                             775.0



- 94 -                             ANNEX 1'/
Table 6
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERHAL POWER PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Training Foreign Costs /a
Duration of
No. of            training           Estimated
trainees           1991-93               cost
(staff-months)         ($'000)
Training in China                     130              247.5               225
Training abroad                        80              160               1,200
Project-related training              125              380              (1,900)/b
Training facilities and
equipment                             -                -                 775
Total                            335              787.5             2.200
/a Base foreign costs.
lb Included under the contracts for major equipment.



95                               ANNEX 18
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Prolect Cost Estimates
($ million)
Item                               Local cost          Foreign cost           Total
Power Plant (I)
Site preparation                     8.4                    -                 8.4
Civil construction                  87.7                 18.9               104.6
Boiler                              25.7                127.1               152.8
Turbine-generator                   32.2                 43.7                75.9
Turbine auxiliaries                 15.5                 29.2                44.7
Coal conveying system               10.1                  0.5                10.6
Ash disposal system                  3.8                  3.8                 7.6
Water treatment system               5.0                  2.3                 7.3
Water supply system                 15.7                   1.1               16.8
Electrical equipment                28.7                 35.9                64.6
Instrument and control system        6.9                 18.7               25.6
Construction equipment               0.4                  1.7                 2.1
Training                             1.3                  2.2                 3.5
Tariff action plan                   0.1                  0.1                 0.2
Engineering and construction
management                        30.3                  2.6                32.9
Monitoring, testing
laboratory instrument              0.7                  1.1                1.8
Air pollution control study          0.1                  0.9                 1.0
Base Cost                       272.6                287.8              560.4
Physical contingency                  27.3                  14.4               41.7
Subtotal                        299.9                302.2              602.1
Associated Transmission (II)
Base cost                           63.8                 24.4                88.2
Physical contingency                 6.4                  1.2                 7.6
Subtotal                         70.2                 25.6               95.8
Price Contingencies (I and II)        51.4                 45.7                97.1
Total Pioject Cost              421.5                373.5              795.0
Interest DurinR Construction         109.9                 52.5               162.4
Total Financing Required        531.4                426.0              957.4



CEIU
ZOUOttB TUERAL POWE PR BECr
Procuremat Schedule
Serismaber                     *                             3            4              5               6                     7                                                8
Work content  301.1st  Pumps & valves               Sle trL a   CDnsrutlOO        ir  fihtn         PlaiTmoniorin                                      Materials
llork content                Bauer   Punpe Evalves         I * C      equipment    equipment°  &teifrllam system    tooting t itorlg        rabor       atr xonal teak  il'p  steel  cable & conductor
BegiS preparation of
bid document              10104190      10104190        08110191      08110191      08110191       08110191 011110192                    01105193         01105193         05/20193         0%120194
4provel by Chinese
Govarnment                11115191-    11/15191-        07118192-    07118192-    07118192-        07/18/92-             07118193-
12105191     12103/91         08101192      08101192      08101192       08101192             08/01193
aOvis by Vorid Bank         12115191-    12/15191-        08115192-    08115192-    08115192-        08/13/92-             08115193-
01130192      01130192        09115192      09115192      09115192       09115192             09115193
lesue bid documents         02128192      02/28/92        10115192      10115192      10/15/92       10/15/92              10/15/93         03/05193         03105193         10/20/93          04120!94
Addends & clarification   03131/92-    03/31/92-          11/05/92      11/05192                     11105/92              11/05/93
03130192      05130192        121301992    12130192                      12130192              12/30193
Bide op7nn                  08130/92      08130/92        01115193      01115193      01115/93       01115193              01/15194         05105193         03105193         01120/94          07120/94
Bids ewelustlon             08130192-    08130192         01115193-    01115193-    01115193-        01115193-             01115194-
09113192      091/5192        03105193      03105193      03105193       03105193             03105/94
Approval by Chinse
Govarerat                 09120192-    09/20192-        03/10/93-    03/10/92-                     03/10/93_            03110/94-                                                                              S
10110192      10110192        04101/93      04101193                     04101193             04101/94
Confirmation of
Vorl: BDa                 08125/92-    0S/25192.        03113/93-    03/11/93-                     03/15/93-            03115/94
10110/92      10110192        04101193      04101193                     04101193             04101/94
lsse  letter of
acceptace0 1011502                      10115192        04115193      04115193      04115193       04113193             04113194          08105193         08105193         0420194         1012"194
Sign the contract           12/25)92      12/25192        06115193      06/11/93      061!5193       06115193              06105194         10105/93         10105193         06120/94          01.20195



97                               ANNEX 20
CHINA
ZOUXIA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Key Dates of Proiect Implementation
Completion Date
A.  Procurement of Maior Equipment for Plant
Bidding documents for boiler and
technical documents for T-G available                        December 31, 1991
Review and approval by IBRD                                    January 31, 1992
Issuance of bid documents                                      February 28, 1992
Bid opening for boiler and final agreement for T-G             June 30, 1992
Bid evaluation for boiler and award                            September 15, 1992
Contract negotiation and signing for boiler                    December 25, 1992
B. Project Implementation
Start excavation                                               May 1, 1993
Start boiler steel structure erection                          May 1, 1994
Hydraulic test of boiler                                       November 30, 1995
Complete erection of T-G and auxiliaries                       March 31, 1996
Acid cleaning of boiler                                        April 30, 1996
Blow-out of boiler                                             June 30, 1996
Trial operation
First unit                                                   July 1, 1996
Second unit                                                  July 1, 1997
Commercial operation
First unit                                                   December 31, 1996
Second unit                                                  December 31, 1997
Project completion                                             June 30, 1998



- 98 -                            ANNEX 21
CHINA
ZOUXL -N <AERMAL POWER PROJECT
Disbursament Schedule
Bank fiscal                                                                Bank /a
year and             Semester          Cumulative         Project        profile
semester             ------- ($ million) -------          ----      (2) --------
1993
First                      _                   _             0.0            0.0
Second                  12.9                12.9             4.2            3.0
1994
First                   15.9                28.8             9.3           10.0
Second                  37.0                65.8            21.2           18.0
1995
First                   4,.8               110.6            35.7           30.0
Second                  'S.0               158.6            51.2           42.0
1996
First                   58.6               217.2            70.1           54.0
Second                  40.3               257.5           83.1            66.0
1997
First                   20.0               277.5            89.5           74.0
Second                  12.7               290.2           93.6            78.0
1998
First                    8.0               298.2            96.2           86.0
Second                   6.8               305.0           98.4            90.0
1999
First                    5.0               310.0           100.0           94.0
Second                     -                   -               -           98.0
2000
First                                                          -           100.0
/a Standard disbursement profile for all sectors in China issued on June 11,
1991.



AtINEX 22
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Air Pollution Characteristics of the Zouxian Thermal Power Plant
Air Quality (/g/m3)
Background level
Chinese     Zouxian
World Bank    national    county                  Background and    Background and    Background and   Background and
standard    standard/a    town        Lochang      Phase I /b       Phases I-II lb    Phases I-III /b  Phases I-III/b
SO2  DustLe  S02   Dust  S02  Dust  S02  Dust    S02         Dust     S02       Dust     S02      DustLd      Dust/e
Annual average       100   100    100       -   43   179   19    90   63/38   185/98    62/37   187/98    71/46   188/99    187.7/98.7
Daily maximum        500   500    250    500  180   478   63   248  214/94   488/260  217/100  493/264  234/109  495/267   494.3/266.0
Once maximum
(Zouxian Town)         -     -    700  1,600  201   636    -       -    321       671      323       687      380       697         694
Emissions (Units as Indicated)
Chinese
World Bank            standard (total
(Phase III only)          of all phases)             Phase I                 Phase II                 Phase III           Total all phases
SO            Dust         SO         Dust        SO         Dust          So2       Dust          So,       Dust           SO2        Dust
(tpg)/f      (mg/r )       (tpll)      (tph)      (tph)      (C h)         (tph)      (tph)        (tpf)      (tph)         (tph)       (tph)
16.8Th        100         31.1        11.34       7.2        2.12/h       2.4        2.12Lh        4.8       0.634Ld       14.4       4.871d
10                                                                                           0.427/e                   4.67?e
/a  GS 309S-82, Zouxian Area declared Class III air category by Sandong provincial Environmental Protection LBureau
Lb  County Town value/Luclang value.
Lc  Dust is evaluated as total suspended particulates, TSP.
Id  ESP efficiency of 99.6 percent or 160 mg/m  dust exit concentration for Phase III.
/e  ESP efficiency of 99.74 percent or 100 mg/m3 dust exit concentration for Phase III.
Lf  Tons per hour.
L9  Value depends on background level, at Zouxian County Town (worst case) background (true background plus Phases I and II and per
3                                       3
World Bank guideline) is 62 Ag/m . Since this is greater than 50 fg/m , allowable emission is less than normal 500 tons per day
(21 tph) but must be calculated.
/h  ESP efficiency of 98.0 percent.
Note:  Plant statistics:  Coal                          Phase I         Phase II    Phase III
Sulfur (X)                     1.22              0.47          0.47
Ash (%)                        32.6             29.95         29.95
Stack height (m)                240    shared with I            240
r. '* -    I- ..  #'- q)        s13                26          22.4



- 100 -                            ANNEX 23
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Summary of Mitigating Measures Recommended
in the Environmental Impact Assessment
Air Quality Control
Sulfur Dioxide:                 Use low sulfur coal (less than 0.5 percent);
Use high chimney dispersion (240 meters).
Dust:                            Use high efficiency (99.6X) electrostatic
precipitators (ESP) to meet an exit
concentration 150 mg/m3) for total suspended
particulatee (TSP).
Nitrogen oxides:                Use low NOX burners.
Waste Water Control
Circulating Cooling
Water Blowdown:                  No chrome chemicals are to be used.  Blowdown
is to be sent to ash pond (see below) after
neutralization.
Chemical Waste Water
and Boiler Blowdowns            Neutralization by acid or alkaline prior to
discharge.
Boiler Cleaning
Wastewater:                     Discharge after treatment in ash water quick
reaction clarifier, resultant sludge disposed
in ash yard (mineral acid), or inject
wastewater into boiler furnace for
incineration (organic acid).
Oil Contaminated
Wastewater:                      Use flat flow oil scraping pond and air
flotation pond, two stages.
Sanitary Wastes:                Secondary treatment system currently
available. Expand if necessary to meet
effluent discharre standards.
Coal Yard Runoff:               Collect and settle.  Sludge sent to ash
disposal site, effluent discharged.
Ash Sluice Waters                Settled and recirculated, no discharge.



- 101 -
Page 2
Solid Waste
Fly Ash:                         Sluiced to the Changyu Ash Yard.  Surface to
be maintained wet. Rainwater from surrounding
areas directed to drainage systems. Sides
planted with trees to contain dust. After
useful life, ash yard is to be ievogetated.
Bottom Ash:                      Ground and trucked to the Nantun coa' mins
depression area.
Noise
Allowable noise level of less than 90 db(A) to be specified for main and
auxiliary equipment.
Noise isolating covers, walls or closets shall be provided where necessary.
Silencers shall be provided for boiler safety valves, piping, blowout, and
forced draft fans.



- 102 -                            ANNEX 24
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Environmental Monitoring Program
1.        Two 600 MW coal-fired steam generating units will be installed in
the Phase III development of the Zouxian Thermal Power Station. In accordance
with the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act of PRC (Provisional)
and the Regulations for Fossil-Fired Power Plant Environmental Monitoring
(Provisioral) of MOE, Shandovg Electric Power Bureau will perform environmen-
tal monitoring for the discharge, ambient, and ash disposal areas in accor-
dance with the prog:ams presented in Tables 1 (air), 2 (water), and 3 (noise).
2.        In order to successfully implement this program, it is necessary to
establish an environmental monitoring station, obtain additional monitoring
equipment (locally and foreign), and provide trained staff to operate and
maintain the equipment.
3.        The monitoring program is to be under the direction of the plant
director; it should include a station leader and seven technicians, including
environmental, chemical and thermal mechanical specialists or engineers. The
station leader should report directly to the plant director.
4.        Summary reports of the program should be prepared on a regular basis
and made available to the World Bank upon request.
5.        Additional equipment needed from local and foreign sources and the
associated training requirements are presented in Tables 4 and 5. In brief
terms, these resources are as follows:
Local equipment        $100,000      (equivalent)
Imported equipment    $800,000
Training (abroad)    ($100,000)    (including under the overall
training program)
Total /a          S900.000
/a Base costs.



103-                                                    ANNEX 24
Page 2
Table Is  AIR AND GAS ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
Monitoring            Paramters or             Equipment                  Frequency                                                Monitoring
point               pollutants              to be used                  of sampling                  Sampling point                period
flue *tack            b04, NO.                MIOO-type single           SO2, NO,.  continu-           In the middle              All year
chimney monitoring         ously                         of the stack
ayetem
Electroatatic         Duet removal            leokinstic probe,           After overhaul and            Standard pro- 
precipitator          efficieney                                          after every fuel              cedures as
change (at least             defined by
two times per year)          manufacturer
Residentiel           S41, RO,. CO. TSP       Mobile wagon auto-          Five-day intervals            Prevailing wind            All year.
ores                                          matic system                                              direction, in-             three to
side plant fence           four times
Ash disposal         TSP                      Mol,le wagon auto-          Three to four times           At edge of site,           All year
yard                                         eotic system                 per year                      several locations
Sourcee  87-Notification No. IM 299, Thermal Electric Power Plant Monitoring Regulation (Ministry of Energy).



ANN 2 24
Page 3
Table 2:  MAND IMSTTER   fU     IIU
Roiler water               Oil cota-                                                         MAit Hors.
demieralaerSanitary     mulnted                                                          Live? tin-
Total cobined      d     rg    wteater   wtmter                           Ah  yard                            butry and
Diacba            pleat  ndu-    (after tr at- treatmnt        effluant    Coal yard       grounater                             upstreml    loner          Analytical
*t    waste     meat) a bol-   plant         (after      settlig tank  (incudin             Cooing towr       domntrem  cle1g             proeedure
Parouter          dliposal site         *ffluent       or blowdmu  offluut        treatment)     discharge    local walls)          blowdoun       of Junctio  waatmter        peficati
ph                Oncee i  10 days   Once In 10 days Continou        Once/mth   Once/aDath  Wlba water is  Four tsiyer    OwCe in 10 days Twicelyear Before                 0G.4920-86
prsent                                          discharge
Su9pended estter  Once in 10 days  Once in 10 days  -                Once/mouth   -            Wben  water ti  Four timesyer    -                  Twice/year  Before         PS-2-85
proeset                                                        4isc-harge
COD (Cr method)   Once in 10 days   Once in 10 days  -               Once/mth   -              When water Is  & total hardnecs,-                   Triceyear Before           1S-7-45
present        four times/year                                 diacrarg
Arsenic end       OUce/seaaon        Oncelseeson      -              -            -            Twice a year  Powu  lumssyear    -                  Tvice/year before          G-7485-87
arsenide                                                                                                                                                       disebarge
Fluorine and      0ncelnth           Once/month       -                     -            -             -                 -                 -                    -             CB-7484-87
fluoride
Sulfide           Oncel/onth         Once/month       -              -            -            -                 s ulfate, four    -               -            -             P-5-5
tlmsa/year
Sltrite and       -                  Once/aesson      -              Once/season  -            -               -                  -                Twice/year -               CS-7479-7
nitrate
Oil ad grease    -                                    _              -            Tvicaleouth When water is  Four tmAe/yer    -                    -            -             PS-9-45
(IRnInImom)   presez ~ 
Volatile phenol   -                  -                -                           Once/outh   hen water Is  Four tlms/year    -                    Twice/year  -              G0-7490-87
prsesst0
BOD  (cat 200C)    -                 _                               Once/week    -            -              Four timo/year    -                  -            -             0-748-7              4
Residnal chlo.    Once/month         -                -              Onc/lmouth   -            -               your tlime/yar   Once/mth           Twice/year -               G3-5754-85            1
rnie              (chLoride)                                                                                   (chloride)
Bacterial count   -                  ,                               -            ,            -              I * coll. four
timel/yer
Phosbhate         -                  -                Onelonth    -               -            -               -                  Once in 10 day. -
Dissolved solids  _                  _                _              _                         _              Four tims/year    Four tims/year Tice/year  -
Heavy metals      Cd. Ng. Pb:        Cd. Ng. Pbh      -              -                         Cd, Bg. Pb.   Cd. 1g. Pb. Cr".  -                   Cd. Ug,- Th Cd. OS, Pb.  Cr"sGD-7467_87
Once/seson        Once/season    -              -            -              Cr":s           uinim   rour                      CrT-           Cr". Cug   Cd, Pbg Gl-7475-87
Cr":  Once/       Cr"'  Once/                                                  twice/year    times/year                           Twice/year before        Mg: G0-7468-7
month             season                                                                                                                     disharge
Standard spplic-   e-s8978-88       G0-8978-88        GB-8978-88    G38978-68   ae-8978-88  G0-8978-88        GB-SY49-8S          G-8978-88       G0-3838-8S GB-978-
able                                                  (except Cu)



- 105 -                                     ANNEX 24
Page 4
Table 3:  NOISE MONITORING PLAN
Monitoring standard &
Monitoring point            Noise source            Location of monitor          measurement method
Inside main building       Various piecas of        Monitor is to be loca-   GB-7441-87
and miscellaneous           rotating machinery:    ted 1 meter from large   "Measurement Method of
plant buildings on-         - Turbine               equipment.  Number of    Power Plant Noise"
site                       - Feed water pump        points decided by test
- Forced draft fan      person.  For small
- Induced draft fan    equipment, monitor is
- Coal grinding mills  located at a distance
of 1/2 the equipment
length
Outside plant fence        General monitoring of  Area is divided into         GB-3222-87
and residential areas      ambient noise            500 m x 500 m grid.        "Measurement Method of
The center of each        Community Noise"
square will be the mon-
itoring point. Number
of locations depends on
area
Road traffic            Mid-point of two inter-  CB-3222-87
sections, 50 meters       "Measurement Method of
from roadside             Community Noise"
Administration bu_ld-                              dB-3222-87
ing, plant front area,                             "Measurement Method of
worker residences                                  Comnunity Noise"



-106 -                            ANNEX 24
Page 5
Table 4: LIST OF INSTRUMENTS AND EQUIPMENT
TO BE PURCHASED LOCALLY
Instrument/device type                     Code     Number         Remarks
1/1,000 precision analytical balance    TG328A         2
Type 751 spectroscopic meter              751G         l
pH meter                                  PXJ-lC       2       One may be PHS-3C
Polarograph                               MEC-RA       1
Precision integrated sound level meter  ND-2           2
Dust measuring instrument                 SYC-l        2
Velocity meter                            LS-1O        2
Wind direction and speed meter            -            2
Suspended particle sampler                fC-A3        6
Air sampler                               KB6A         6
Refrigerator                              200L         1
Electronic calculator                     PC-1500      l
Conductivity meter                        DDS-lla      l
Total cost                                $100,000 equivalent



-107-                              ANNEX 24
Page 6
Table 5: INSTRUMENTS, EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING NEEDS -
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS
Instrument/device type                    Number                 Remarks
Instack Continuous autoatic flue gas        1        Including sampler, analyzer
analyzer (SO2, NO)--complete                      and printer, environmental
installation and control panels                   monitoring panel display,
included                                          alarms and associated
telemetry
Flue gas automatic monitor for TSP          1        Including sampler, analyzer
and printer
Mobile van ambient air quality               I       Including sampler, analyzer
monitor for SO2, NOR, TSP                          and printer
pH continuous automatic monitor             1
COD measuring meter                         1
BOD5 measurement equipment
Photospectroscopic meter
Oil measuring meter
Dust measurement apparatus for work
area in the main power house
Total Cost                                                          $800,000
Training Needs
Operation, maintenance, construction details for flue gas
analyzers (SO2/NOx, TSP):  4 persons for 2.5 months or         10 staff-months
Operation, maintenance, construction details for mobile
van monitoring station:    4 persons for 2.5 months or          10 staff-months
Total                                                       20 staff-months
or $100,000



- 108-                            ANNEX 25
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN T.tERMAL POWER PROJECT
ShandonR Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Financial System Followed by Chinese Power Bureaus l/
1.        Power companies such as SPEPB may accumulate capital from three
separate and distinct source.?. These include funds for fixed assets, funds
for working capital, and a number of special funds.
(a) Funds for Fixed Assets. These funds are obtained from the State in
large enough amounts to permit implementation of approved projects
according to agreed schedules. Until 1980, these funds were
provided almost entirely as grants; since then, the Government has
decided to make these funds available as loans obtained from the
banking system or from official sources. The iunds under this cate-
gory are used exclusively to finance works classified as capital
expenditures. The funds are released monthly, in accordance with
plan provisions, in amounts needed to cover actually incurred expen-
ditures. The power bureaus are not expected to finance significant
portions of capital expenditure from operations; rather, they are
expected to remit most of their surplus income to the government
through payment of taxes;
(b) Funds for Working Capital. These funds are also received from the
State. They are based on a fixed amount established by regulation
and are subject to review at intervals of about ten years. These
funds make up only a minor part of the power bureaus' capital and,
because most of the bureaus have drawn their entire allocations
since the last review, these funds have been used only as a minor
source of capital in recent power projects proposed for Bank financ-
ing. Because current obligations both to and from the power bureaus
are settled almost as accrued, the working capital funds have been
used primarily to finance operating inventory; and
(c) Special Funds. These funds are earmarked for distinct purposes and
are funded from net operating revenues or cash receipts in amounts
established according to regulations. The power bureaus' accounts
contain four separate categories of special funds, including those
for: (i) maintenance; (ii) renovations; (iii) employee benefits;
and (iv) distribution improvements. The special funds for mainte-
nance are financed by allocations charged as operating expenses in
determining net operating income before Income Tax. The special
funds for renovations are financed by charges against Government
1/   The information presented in this annex was obtained from SPEPB and the
mission visiting China in September 1991.



- 109 -                            ANNEX 25
Page 2
Funds (the balance sheet account showing the Government's equity
investment in a power bureau) equal to the portion of depreciation
provisions not used for debt repayment. The special funds for
employee benefits are financed using distributions from Net Income
after Income Tax but prior to the Adjustment Tax. Receipts and
withdrawals from the special funds associated with distribution
improvements are passed through the Flow of Funds statement and are
specifically excluded from the Income Statement. All other alloca-
tions to the special funds appear or are reflected on the Income
Statement as though they are operating costs or distributions from
earnings, regardless of whether corresponding cash expenditures have
been incurred.
2.        Under more traditional accounting systems, the moneys expended from
the special funds would largely be classified as operating costs or working
capital. However, items charged to the Special Funds for both renovations and
distribution improvements would be capitalized as fixed assets once the under-
lying work were completed. Thus, when the renovations or distribution
improvements are completed, their value is deducted from the special funds
balance and added to the Government Funds account. The power bureaus have
only one way to channel tariff revenues into cash since all operating revenues
must either be expensed; distributed to cover cash outflows, debt service or
taxes; invested in renovations or distribution improvements; or retained for
future expenditure chargeable to the special funds. Tne bureaus channel reve-
nues into cash by using the excess of special fund allocations over the sum of
(a) Special Fund Expenditures; (b) completed renovations and distribution
improvements; and (c) increases in Special Fund Assets. In turn, cash gener-
ated through the Special Funds may be interchanged with other operating cash;
however, allocations to particular special funds create an ultimate obligation
for a power bureau to use the accumulated cash only for certain categories of
expenditures.
3.        Until 1983, the power bureaus paid remittances to MOE equal to oper-
ating revenues less the sum of cash expenditures charged directly to opera-
tions, all allocations to special funds, and debt service.  Since 1983, the
power bureaus pay MOP an Income Tax, assessed at 55 percent of operating reve-
nues less the sum of costs (including depreciation) charged directly to opera-
tions, all allocations to special funds that are treated as expenses, and debt
service in excess of the portion of depreciation provisions specifically allo-
cated for debt repayment. From the residual after Income Tax, the power
bureaus must cover the special fund allocations that are treated as distribu-
tions from earnings and the amount of debt repayment and capitalized interest
during construction to be met from net income, and remit the remainder to MOE
as an Adjustment Tax.2/ MOE has some flexibility in controlling the power
bureaus' liquidity. It can dc this either by changing their allocations to
the special funds, making grants for allocation to the special funds, or
relieving the power bureaus of a portion of the Adjustment Tax. The power
2/ From an accounting point of view, the Adjustment Tax is treated in a
manner similar to a dividend.



- 110 -                            ANNEX 25
Page 3
bureaus appear to have adequate liquidity and MOE has not shown any inclina-
tion to adjust the procedures that affect their liquidity.
4.        Under the existing financial system, the Government does not intend
for the power bureaus to retain a surplus. However, tariff revenues must meet
debt service requirements and repayment per se does not represent a charge
against earnings. Regulations provide that certain stipulated amounts of
repayment shall be met from cash that has been generated by depreciation;
however, the remainder of the cash generated by depreciation must be added to
a bureau's operating cash and a corresponding allocation must be made to the
Special Funds for renovations. As a result, the remainder of repayment, which
must be met from an earmarked increment of tariff revenues, creates an accumu-
lation of equity in the form of a corresponding undistributed earnings.
5.        Most power bureaus have units which engage in construction manage-
ment and subsidiaries which function as contractors. As a rule, the accounts
of the construction management units are consolidated with those of the power
bureau's operating units; however, the accounts of subsidiaries acting as
construction contractors are, as a rule, not consolidated with those of the
operating units. As a result, when investments have been financed through
grants, the power bureau's consolidated accounts may have routinely under-
stated gross fixed assets and certainly did not reflect adequately construc-
tion in progress. Also, in the past, only about 85 percent of the value of
government grants used to finance new fixed assets was transferred from the
books of the construction subsidiaries functioning as contractors to the power
bureau's consolidated accounts. The residual was considered to have been
expended in purchasing moving assets, which remained with those construction
subsidiaries upon the completion of construction. The change to using loans
rather than grants to finance power sector investments has caused investment
funds to be channelled from the Government through the power bureaus for pay-
ment to construction units acting as contractors. Thus, in the future, the
consolidated accounts of the power bureaus should more accurately reflect the
value of gross fixed assets and construction in progress.
6.        Given the existing financial system, the power bureaus have little
financial incentive to increase tariffs at the present time. Once a power
bureau has sufficient revenues to meet the costs charged directly to opera-
tions and all special fund allocations and debt service, any additional reve-
nues are remitted to the State through income or adjustment taxes. Thus, once
expenses and required distributions have been met, even a large tariff
increase would not increase a power bureau's financial viability, except to
improve debt service coverage. Therefore, the familiar indicators of finan-
cial performance such as rate of return and self-financing ratio have very
limited application to a financial analysis of the Chinese power bureaus.
7.        Nevertheless, the relationships between pricing, operating costs,
and size of the investment program are becoming increasingly important to
MOE/SEIC. In their role as nationwide managers of the sector, MOE/SEIC have
to arrange financing for the large and rapidly expanding investment program of
the regional power bureaus. As a result, they have become acutely conscious
of the need to mobilize appropriate resources from the consumers. To further
their efforts at resource mobilization, recent Bank-financed power projects in



-111-                     ~~~~~ANINEX 25
Page 4
mainland China have provided for financial covenants with specific targets for
a "notional self-financing ratio." For purposes of these agreements, the
/4djustment Tax would not be considered a reduction in earned cash because it
is a remittance of a residual and not a tax built into the cost structure and
the proceeds are generally recycled into investments in the power sector.



- 112 -
- 112                   ~~~~~ANNEX 26
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Shandong Provincial Electric Power bureau
Annual Financial Statements of SPEPB
Income Statement - Actual                      1985-90                Table 1
Flow of Funds Statement - Actual                  1990                Table 2
Balance Sheet - Actual                         1985-90                Table 3
Income statement - Forecast                  1991-2000                Table 4
Flow of Funds Statement - Forecast           1991-2000                Table 5
Balance Sheet - Forecast                     1991-2000                Table 6
Key Financial Indicators                     1991-2000                Table 7
Major Assumptions and Notes to
the Financial Projection                                            Attachment



ANNEX 26
- 113 -                                        Table  1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Income Statements 1985-90
(Yuan Million)
1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990
Revenues
Sales Increase (2)                        4.2         11.9         9.3        16.2        10.5         6.8
Energy Sales (GWH)                     20,836      23,313      25,470      29,599       32,702      34,921
Average Price (FenlKwh)                    7.3         7.9         8.6         9.4        11.6        12.7
Operating Revenue                       1,512        1,851      2,182        2,781       3,802       4,437
Costs
Fuel                                      565          620         697         938       1,616       1,656
Purchased Power                             57         247         336         569         602         860
Operation & Maintenance                    129         166         206         243         318         383
Administration                              36          38          42          58          67         100
Sales Tax                                 387         451          477         555         682         801
Depreciation                                88         106         152         207         249         302
Technology developing                                                                                   14
Operating Costs                         1,262        1,628       1,910       2,570       3,534       4,117
Operating Income                           250         223         272         211         268         320
Other Income                                31          95          75          91          10          58
Net Income Before Income Tax              281          318         347         302         278         341
Income Tax                                133          135         154         138          97         186
Net Income                                 148         183         193         164         164         155
Distribution of Net Income:
Remittance to Govt.                      33          70          52           72          81          73
Transfer to Govt. Funds                  63          63          54          54           35           0
Employee Benefit Sp.Fund                 52          50          90           41          48          82
Total                                148         IS3         196         167         164          155
Rate Base                               1,874       2,303       2,912        3,418       4,690       5,212
RDR on Historically
valued assets                             15       13.3         11.9         8.9         5.7         6.1
Source: SPEPB, September 1991.



- 114                           ~~~~~~ANNEX 26
Table 2
CHINA
ZOUXIAN POWER PROJECT
Fund Flow Statement 1990
(Yuan Million)
Sources:
Debts payable through tax reduction                                             201.9
Income before interest                                                          211.7
Depreciation                                                                    261.5
Maint. special fund                                                             144.1
Distr. impr. sp. fund                                                            67.9
Total                                                                        887.1
Borrowings:
Non-Bank project loans                                                          743.9
IDC borrowed                                                                    409.2
Total borrowings                                                           1.153.1
Total Sources                                                              2,042.2
Application:
Capital expenditure:
Other construction                                                              743.9
IDC                                                                             432.3
Completed renovation                                                             88.8
Distribution improvement                                                         52.8
Total capital expenditure                                                  1,317.8
Operational requirement:
Inc/(dec) working capital                                                        58.2
Inc/(dec) in op. fund assets                                                     99.5
Loan repayment                                                                  161.2
Remittance to Govt.                                                              73.2
Sp.fund expenditure                                                             161.9
Interest charged to operation                                                   123.1
Total operational requirement                                                677.0
Total application                                                          1.994.8
Incr./(dec) in cash                                                                45.4
Source: SPEPB, September 1991.



NMNEX 26
- 115 -                                        Table 3
CHINA
ZOUXIAN POWER PROJECT
Balance Sheet 1985-90
(Yuan Million)
1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990
Assets
Cash                                    177         236         394          306         415         581
Inventorieb                             101         102         117          133         275         343
Receivables                              49          94          172         165         159         220
Total current assets                 327         432         683         584         849    1.144
Plant in Service                      .,079       3,523       4,507       5,125       7,255       7,682
(less accum. depreciation)            919       1,029       1,170       1,350       1,650       1,889
Operating plant, net                  2,160       2,494       3,337       3,775       5,605        5,793
Work-in-Progress                        328         855          600         585         470       1,768
Total fixed assets                    2,488       3,349       3,937       4,360       6,075       8,705
Special fund assets                      54          76          125         62          182         181
Total assets                       2.869       3,857       4.745       5,006       7,106       8.886
Liabilities
Acc. Payable                             96          149        3-6          258         231         304
Due to Govt                               9          37            3          25          53          36
Short Term Debt                           0            0           0           0           0           0
Current liabilities                     105         186         319         283          284         340
Long-term debt                          554       1,256       1,578       2,075       4,117       5,265
Consumers deposit                         0            0           0           0           0           0
Govt. F                               1,935       2,093       2,358       2,287       2,493        2,589
Working capital funds                    68          69           71          73          74          86
Special funds                           203         253         413         289          138         605
Total liabilities                  2.865       3,857       4.739       5,007       7.106       8,885
Debt as X of debt & equity               20.1        34.2        35.7         43.9        60.4        61.6
Current ratio (times)                     3.1         2.3          2.1         2.1         2.9         3.0
Annual debt service coverage
(times)                                 3.8         5.0         7.0         2.6         4.0         4.0
Source: SPEPB, September 1991.



ANINEX 26
CHIMA                                         Table 4
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
INCOME STATEMENT
(Yuan Million)
Year Ended December 31                  1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Sales Increase ()                       11.8     7.7      8.6     8.2      8.2     8.1      8.1     8.0      7.9     7.9
Energy Sates (Gldh)                  39046.7 42044.5 45671.8 49430.2 53494.6 57821.2 62497.5 67479.8 72811.7 78580.8
Average Price (fenKWNH)                 14.8    17.2    19.1    20.6    22.2    23.3    24.9    26.3    27.6    28.9
Operating Revenue                     5797.0  7221.6  8709.9 10170.0 11881.5  13469.3 15572.0 17M.5  20129.6 22705.9
Operating Costs
Fuel                                2110.0  2532.0  2931.2  3364.7  3863.7  4410.7  5029.9  5633.9  6381.3  7308.4
Purchased Power                      893.0   949.7  1062.0  1113.5  1167.4  1223.9  1231.9  137Z.2  1523.5  1597.5
Operation & Maintenance              485.3   577.5   670.7   765.1   865.6   997.3  1176.2  1377.2  1573.9  1761.2
Administration                       108.8   122.7   135.2   146.9   159.6   173.5   188.5   204.9   222.7   242.0
Sales Tax                            996.5  1188.7  1386.1  1588.2  1821.1  2043.5  2331.0  2620.3  2930.5  3277.1
Depreciation                         408.6   497.0   582.4   662.0   740.7   863.6  1053.1  1276.7  1475.4  1629.6
Technology developing                 17.4    21.7    26.1    30.5    35.6    40.4    46.7    53.3    60.4    68.1
Total Operating Costs             5019.6  5889.3  6793.7  7670.8  865-1.8  9752.9  11057.4 12538.6  14167.7  15883.9
Operating Income                       777.4  1332.3  1916.2  2499.2  3227.7  3716.4  4514.6  5234.9  5961.9  6822.0
Other Income                            60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0
Interest Chargod to Operations         381.2   347.4   502.9   589.5   658.6   779.5   902.9  1112.5  1152.7  1222.4
Chargeable IDC                         0.0    92.4    54.5    82.0       0.0   102.4   209.1    63.7   138.5   108.9
Net Income Before Income Tax           456.2   952.6  1418.8  1887.8  2629.1  2894.5  3462.6  4118.7  4730.7  5550.7
Income Tax                             273.3   531.3   799.3   998.1  1400.9  1527.3  1632.0  2023.5  2281.6  2784.3
Net Income                             182.9   421.2   619.5   889.7  1228.2  1367.1  1830.6  2095.2  2449.0  2766.4
Rate Base                             6481.9  7983.8  9333.5  10473.0  11513.8 13430.1  16664.3 20445.4 23464.8 25324.7
Rate of Return (ROR)
Historically Valued Assets (X)        12.0    16.7    20.5    23.9    28.0    27.7    27.1    25.6    25.4    26.9
Notionally Revalued Assets (%)         9.5    13.0    16.6    19.2    22.8    21.4    21.3    20.3    21.1    22.3
Distribution of Net Income
Remittances to Goverrment             76.4   270.2   475.7   616.8   921.8   994.5  1044.4  1339.1  1524.5  1899.6
Transferred to Govt. Funds           -40.7   -13.5   -34.4    73.0    82.0   117.5   495.3   439.6   582.2   488.3
Enterprise Retained Funds            147.2   164.5   178.3   199.8   224.4   255.2   290.9   316.5   342.3   378.5
Total                              182.9   421.2   619.5   889.7  1228.2  1367.1  1830.6  2095.2  2449.0  2766.4
--=  -                                       ------            -----------=======G============-__===_==__=



ANNEX 26
Table 5
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POQER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Yuan Million)
Year ended December 31
Internal Sources of Funds                 1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
.....   - -- - -- - -- -                   ----..   -- -     --.-       -     - -       .. .-               -     - --.       .
The amount of debts to be paid
by tax reduction                       351.2   474.9   607.1  m7.8   978.4  1221.1  1523.7  1804.4  1557.3  1767.3
Net Income before int. paymt.          571.9   869.4  1186.1  1571.0  1897.4  2260.6  2955.1  3284.9  3754.9  4113.4
Depreciation                           369.6   457.3   537.2   614.9   688.1   818.8  1006.8  1227.7  1408.0  1553.4
Na-ntenance Special Funds               203.0   251.8   299.1   343.1   386.7   454.6   559.4   683.1   793.0   878.3
Distribution Imprv. Spec. Fds.           55.5     59.8    64.9    70.3    76.1    82.2    88.9    95.9    103.5   111.7
Total Internal Sources                 1551.2  2113.3  2694.4  3373.1   4026.7  4837.4  6133.9  7096.1   7616.7  8424.1
_ ~=======~==-=======  ~~====  =======--==___==--==___====--- :-------             ==_     ------_--
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loan                       0.0    69.4    166.2   359.4   573.5   324.4    111.4    63.5           0.0      0.0
Zouxian Project Related Loans            0.0    87.2   363.5   809.0   1296.1   1048.5   447.2    93.9           0.0     0.0
Other Loans                            1796.2   1875.5   1829.2  1654.1   1740.2  2366.7  3507.9  3564.0  4042.7  4312.0
IDC Borrowed                           127.0   207.1    224.2   210.7   325.3    185.7   275.9   652.0   663.4    691.5
Total Borrowings                       1923.2  2239.1   2583.2  3033.2  3935.1   3925.3  4342.3  4373.4   4706.2   5003.5
Goverrnent Funds
== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =                                                                                         ======_===__============ __==========__===_____= __==_____==__=__==__=
Total Sources of Funds              3474.4  4352.4  5277.6  6406.3  7961.8  8762.7  10476.2  11469.5  12322.8  13427.7
Capital Expenditures
Proposed Zouxian Project                 0.0   153.1   508.4  1102.3  1729.9  1156.5   414.7   157.4             0.0     0.0
Other Construction                     1796.2  1875.5  1829.2  1654.1   1740.2  2366.7  3507.9  3564.0  4042.7  4312.0
Interest During Construction           127.0   210.5   245.6   276.8   465.0   402.2   419.7   652.0   663.4   691.5
Cowpleted Renovations                   88.8   170.9   201.0   223.2   299.3   341.4   431.6   535.2   610.8   642.5
Distribution loprovements               52.8    48.8    52.8    57.7    62.5    67.7    73.2    62.5    67.7    73.2
Total Capital Expenditure             2064.9  2458.9  2836.9  3314.1  4297.0  4334.4  4847.0  4971.2  5384.7  5719.1
Operational Requirements
Inc/Cdec) in Working Capital           -56.6    27.4    24.7    31.2    43.4    22.3    40.0    20.0    39.9    64.4
Inc/(dec) in Special Fund Assets        87.2    38.4    31.2    94.5    53.1    111.5   126.1    110.0    60.8    83.6
Loan Repayment                         453.0   663.3   843.4  1114.9  1363.4  1661.2  2445.9  2796.3  2845.2  3015.1
Remittances to Government               76.4   270.2   475.7   616.8   921.8   994.5  1044.4  1339.1   1524.5  1899.6
Special Fund Expenditures              412.6   433.5   491.3   527.8   608.9   720.8   809.2  1013.7  1122.7  1256.4
Chargeable IDC                           0.0    92.4    54.5    82.0         0.0   102.4   209.1    63.7   138.5    108.9
Interest Charged to Operations         381.2   347.4   502.9   589.5   658.6   779.5   902.9   1112.5   1152.7  1222.4
Total Operational Requirements        1353.8  1872.6  2423.7  3056.6  3649.2  4392.2  5577.6  6455.3  6884.2  7650.3
===== -=e=e =                =_ __=----3-= ese==                          =           -e=oeoeoee____e=== - 
Total Applications of Funds         3418.7  4331.5  5260.6  6370.7  7946.1   8726.6  10424.7  11426.5  12268.9  13369.4
-n ... feh            55.7    20.9    16.9    35.5        15.6    36.1    51.5    43.1    53.9    58.2
I                  A 1      '      1  lB  *   1.6    1.6      1.7



ANNEX 26
Table 6
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
BALANCE SHEFT
(Yuan Million)
Year ended December 31                        1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                                    636.4    657.4    674.3    709.8    725.4    761.5    813.1    856.1    910.0    968.3
Inventories                             566.4    657.9    741.0    831.9    931.3   1060.6   1209.5   1363.4   1522.6   1710.8
ReceivlOtes                             317.6    395.7    477.3    557.3    651.0    738.0    853.3    973.9   1103.0   1244.2
Total Current Assets                   1520.4   1711.0   1892.5   2099.0   2307.8   2560.2   2875.8   3193.5   3535.7   3923.2
Fixed Assets
Pkant in Service                       9469.2  11591.7  13247.8  15115.1  16732.0  20552.2  25117.1  30444.2  33908.0  37268.9
(less) Accun. Depreciation             2298.1   2795.1   3377.4   4039.4   4780.2   5643.8   6696.9   7973.6   9449.0  11078.6
Net Plant in Service                   7171.1   8796.6   9870.3  11075.7  11951.8  14908.4  18420.2  22470.6  24459.0  26190.3
Construction WIP                       2046.0   2382.3   3563.2   5009.9   7690.0   8204.2   8486.3   8146.9  10085.5  12462.7                          1
Total Fixed Assets                       9217.0  11178.9  13433.5  16085.6  19641.8  23112.6  26906.5  30617.5  34544.5  38653.0
Special Fund Assets                       267.8    306.2    337.4    431.9    485.0    596.5    722.6    832.6    893.5    977 .0 
Total Assets                        11005.2  13196.1  15663.4  18616.5  22434.6  26269.3  30504.9  34643.6  38973.6  43553.2
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                        653.5    764.3    880.4    993.4   1121.6   1259.9   1418.0   1596.2   1799.0   2020.4
Due to Government                        38.2      39.7     41.4      43.1      44.8     46.6      48.5     50.5      52.5     54.5
Total rurrent Liabilities               691.7    803.9    921.7   1036.5   1166.4   1306.6   1466.5   1646.7   1851.4   2074.9
Working LjpitaL Funds                      112.2    142.2    164.3    189.4    209.2    263.1    327.2    401.6    445.3    486.8
Long-term Debt                           6734.9   8310.7  10050.5  11968.8  14540.4  16804.5  18700.9  20278.0  22139.0  24127.4
Goverrvnent Funds                        2774.6   3160.7   3675.5   4409.4   5393.9   6600.6   8498.1  10632.0  12698.1  14818.2
Special Funds                             691.8    778.5    851.3   1012.5   1124.6   1294.5   1512.2   1685.3   1839.9   2046.0
Revaluation Reserve                         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Liabilities                   11005.2  13196.1  15663.4  18616.5  22434.6  26269.3  30504.9  34643.6  38973.6  43553.2
Debt as X of Debt & Equity                   65.3      67.1      68.2     68.1      68.4     67.3      64.4     61.5      59.6      58.2
' v      2.1      2.1       2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0      1.9       1.9      1.9



ANNEX 26
Table 7
CHINA
ZIMJXAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1991-2000
(Yuan Miltion)
Year Ended Decembter 31                     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
Energy Sales (GWh)                       39046.7 42044.5  45671.8  49430.2  53494.6  57821.2  62497.5  67479.8  72811.7  78580.8
Average Price (fen/KWH)                      14.8     17.2     19.1     20.6      22.2     23.3     24.9      26.3     27.6     28.9
Operating Revenue                         5797.0   7221.6  8709.9  10170.0  11881.5  13469.3  15572.0  17773.5  20129.6  22705.9
Operating Income                           837.4   1392.3   1976.2   2559.2   3287.7  3776.4   4574.6   5294.9   6021.9  6882.0
Remittances to Governmrcat                  76.4    270.2    475.7    616.8    921.8    994.5   1044.4   1339.1   1524.5   1899.6
Annual Capital Expenditure                2064.9   2458.9   2836.9   3314.1   4297.0   4334.4   4847.0   4971.2   5384.7  5719.1
Rate Base                                 6481.9   7983.8   9333.5  10473.0  11513.8  13430.1  16664.3  20445.4  23464.8  25324.7
Long-tern Debt                            6734.9   8310.7  10050.5  11968.8  14540.4  16804.5  18700.9  20278.0  22139.0  24127.4
Debt Service                               834.1   1195.5   1455.3   1868.3   2022.0   2645.5   3767.1   4036.2   4275.0   4655.3 Projected
Cash in Banks                              636.4    657.4    674.3    709.8    725.4    761.5    813.1    856.1    910.0    968.3  Average
1991-2000
Rate of Return
Historically Valued Assets (%)            12.0      16.7     20.5     23.9     28.0      27.7     27.1     25.6     25.4      26.9     23.4
Notionally Revalued Assets (X)             9.5      13.0     16.6     19.2     22.8      21.4     21.3     20.3     21.1      22.3     18.7
Self Financing Ratio (X)                    14.1      20.8     26.0     26.8     32.6      32.0     33.9     39.1     42.1      49.0     31.6
Operating Ratio (X)                         86.6      81.6     78.0     75.4      72.8     72.4     71.0     70.5      70.4     70.0     74.9
Debt/equity (X)                             65.3      67.1     68.2     68.1     68.4      67.3     64.4     61.5      59.6     58.2     64.8
Debt Service Coverage                        1.5       1.5      1.6      1.6       1.8      1.6      1.5       1.6      1.6      1.7      1.6



- 120 -                         ANNEX 26
Attachment
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Maior Assumptions and Notes to Financial Prolections
A. Income Statement
1. Onerating Revenue is the product of energy sales in GWh multiplied by
the average price.
2. Fuel Costs are derived by multiplying coal consumption/GWh by current
coal price.
3. Maintenance Costs represent the specific year's allocation to the
Maintenance Special Fund. The allocation represents about 1.5 percent
of gross fixed assets in services.
4. Sales Tax is assumed at the following percentage of each year's oper-
ating revenues:
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
18.0  17.21  16.5Z  15.9Z  15.6%  15.3%  15.2%  15.0%  14.7%  14.6%  14.4%
5. Depreciation is assumed at 4.52 percent of gross fixed assets.
6. Interest. SPEPB's borrowings are assumed from three sources as fol-
lows:
(a) the onlent proceeds of World Bank loans, at 7.75 percent variable
interest rate per annum; repayments over 20 years including 5
years of grace.
(b) direct local loans from People's Construction Bank of China and
from the Shandong Provincial Government, each sharing 50 percent
of the total loans. The interest rate per annum is assumed to be
at 8.28 percent. The repayments are made in 10 years commencing
from completion of first unit.
7. Income Tax represents 55 percent of net income less debt service char-
ges which must be met from distributions of net income. (This item is
entitled, "Transferred to Government Funds" on the income statement.)



- 121 -                         ANNEX 26
Attachment
8. Remittances to Government represents net income after income tax and
after authorized distributions. These funds are remitted in cash
partly to MOE and partly to MOF.
9. Emplovee Benefit Special Fund represents the annual allocation to this
particular special fund, this allocation is met as a distribution from
net income. Allocations to this special fund per employee are assumeo
to increase by 4 parcent each year.
10. Chargeable IDC represents interest during construction which, accord-
ing to regulations, must be met by distributions from net income.
B. Fund Flow Statement
1. Renovations represents 85 percent of the previous year's and 15 per-
cent of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures from the
Special Fund for Renovations.
2. Distribution Improvements represent 85 percent of the previous year's
and 15 percent of the year prior to the previous year's expenditures
from the Distribution Improvements Special Funds.
3. Increase in Working Capital represents the excess of the current
year's current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities, less the
excess of the previous years's current assets (net of cash) over cur-
rent liabilities.
4. Special Fund Expenditures represents aggregate amounts actually spent
from the various special funds in a particular year. In general,
expenditures from the special fund are assumed at 80 percent of the
previous year's and 20 percent of the year before the previous year's
allocations (excluding those from the Maintenance Special Funds, which
are assumed at 100 percent of the particular year's allocation).
C. Balance Sheet
1. Inventories are derived at 1 percent of Gross Fixed Assets and 2
months' fuel.
I
2. Accounts Receivable are assumed at 20 days' sales.
3.  Srecial Fund Assets represents renovations and distribution improve-
ments under construction. The renovations are financed by expendi-
tures from the Special Fund for Renovations. The distribution
improvements are financed from the Distribution Improvements Special
Funds.
4. Accounts Payable are assumed to increase by the same rate as cash
operating expenses.
5. Government Funds includes all paid in equity, plus transfers to Cov-
ernment for loan repayment and chargeable IDC, less depreciation.



- 122 -                           ANNEX 27
Page 1
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Capital Costs
1.        The costs were based on end-1991 price levels.  Shadow pricing was
applied as follows: (a) taxes and duties were excluded; (b) a shadow exchange
rate of $1 - Y 5.5 was used to convert foreign currencies to Yuan; (c) border
prices were used for all imported items including equipment and materials; and
(d) all state subsidies were removed from labor costs to reflect the economic
cost of labor to the country.
2.        The key unit prices used in the economic cost calculations are
summarized below:
Financial          Economic
price             price              Conversion
Item                              (Y)           (Y)         $            factor
Materials
Cement (tons)                   200           220        40   Use market price
Steel products (tons)             -         3,500       650   Use border price
Timber (cu. m)                    -           660       120   Use border price
Labor (per month)
Skilled                         540           657                          1.22
Unskilled                       450           555                          1.23
Standard Coal (tons)                            150                      Use LRMC
600 MW thermal plant (kW)       2,000         2,760                          1.38
3.          Since Zouxian Thermal Power Project will import most of its
electrical and mechanical equipment and net imported materials such as steel
products, timber, cables and conductors, its project cost is very close to the
economic cost, requiring only minor adjustments in exchange rate, cement cost
and local labor costs. A conversion factor of 1.23 was used to calculate the
economic cost of transmission facilities.
4.        The annual disbursements of project economic costs, including
generation and transmission for both units after shadow pricing are given
below:



- 123 -                            ANNEX 27
Page 2
Transmission and
Year                      Generation /a            subtransmission            Total
--------------------- (Y million) -------------------
1992                               128.6                          -           128.6
1993                               411.5                          -           411.5
1994                               803.9                      64.0           867.9
1995                              1067.2                     255.0           1322.2
1996                               561.3                     255.0           816.3
1997                               192.9                      64.0           256.9
1998                               147.0                          -           147.0
Total                       3,312.4                      638.0         3,950.4
Unit cost per kW                 2,760.0                                    3,292.0
La For plant only, the unit cost per kW after shadow-pricing is Y 2,760,
which is very close to the unit economic cost for thermal plants used in
the SAR of Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Annex 7.1 of Report No. 8470-CHA).
Distribution Cost
5.        Cost for the associated distribution system was assumed to be
20 percent of the generation costs.
O&M Costs
6.        The O&M costs were based on the actual cost analysis on a system
basis for SPEPB's grid including generation, transmission, distribution and
sales at Y 0.012/kWh.
Fuel Cost
7.        The fuel cost was estimated using a long-run marginal cost for coal
of Y 150 per ton and a unit consumption of 0.305 kg/kWh for standard coal of
7,000 Kcal/kWh.
Other Costs
8.        This was calculated at about Y 0.002/kWh for administration, etc.
Benefits
9.        Quantifiing the benefits of power projects is difficult in all
countries and particularly so in China, where tariffs and most other prices
are not subject to economic pressures and where most power is allocated



- 124-                             ANNEX 27
Page 3
administratively. It is generally accepted, however, that shortages of
electricity are constraining China's industrial production (causing
undercapacity utilization in industry) and will continue to do so in the near
future. This suggests that the economic benefits of increasing power supply
will be substantial. A recent Bank report suggests the net value of
electricity not served is about Y 0.5/kWh.
10.       A conservative estimate of the value of electricity is obtained by
using the projected tariffs for SPEPB's system from the years 1997-2000,
adjusted to 1991 price level averaging at 16.9 fen/kWh as the minimum proxy of
the economic value of electricity. In addition, other charges were also
included to reflect surplus benefits. These charges include 10 percent local
government surcharge, and the recently applied surcharge of 2 fen/kWh for new
power station construction to all consumers except lighting, agricultural
users, and industries operating at a loss. In 1990, these charges amounted
totally to Y 433 million, equivalent to about fen 1.2/kWh on SPEPB's total
annual sales.
Economic Rate of Return
11.       The IERR of the project, the discount rate which equalizes the
present value of economic costs and benefits, is estimated at 14.0 percent
(see  Table 1 for details).
12.       The economic rate of return was also calculated based on SPEPB's
overall expansion program for the period 1991-2000. The expansion program
consists of 9,150 MW of baseload coal-fired plants, including transmission and
distribution system. On this basis the economic rate of return for SPEPB's
expansion program, including the proposed project, is 13.2 percent. The
average incremental cost of electricity was also calculated using the same
least-cost expansion program. The average cost amounts to 17.3 fen/kWh at
12 percent discount rate. This indicates that electricity prices for SPG
under proposed convents would be close to the average incremental cost of
supply.
Sensitivity
13.       The sensitivity of the IERR of the project with respect to a 10
percent increase in investment cost, a one-year delay in commissioning and
coal increased to Y 160 per ton is presented below. These figures represent
the upper limit of possible cost overruns or delays in implementing the
project, or LRMC of coal.
IERR
(Z)
Base case                                        14.0
101 cost overrun                                 13.3
One-year delay in commissioning                  12.3
Standard coal price increases from
Y 150 per ton to Y 160 per ton                   13.5



ANNEX 27
Page 4
Table 1: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(Base Case)
Costs &
Capital Cost                        O0LM    Fuel    Other    Total    Generation Sales   Benefits   Benefits
Gene.ration    Transmission       Distribution       Cost    cost    costs       cost    ---- (GWh) -----   ---  mY illion) ---
--------------------------------- (Y million) --------------------------------
1992                  128.6                 -                  -         -       -         -    128.6          -           -           -      -128.6
1993                  411.5                 -                  -         -       -         -    411.5          -           -           -      -411.5
1994                  803.9             64.0                   -         -       -         -    867.9          -           -           -      -867.9
1995                1,067.2            255.0               54.0          -       -         -  1,376.2          -           -           -    -1376.2
1996                  561.3            255.0              200.0      14.4    54.9        2.1  1,087.7    1,200         1,056       191.1      -896.6
1997                  192.9             64.0              200.0      57.6   219.6        8.4    742.5    4,800         4,224       764.5        22.0
1998                  147.0                 -             200.0      90.0   343.1       13.2    793.3    7,500         6,600    1,194.6        401.3
1999                                        -                  -     93.6   356.8       13.7    464.1    7,800         6,864    1,242.3        778.2
2000-21                                     -                  -     93.6   356.8       13.7    464.1    7,800         6,864    1,242.3        778.2
2022                                        -                  -     46.8   178.4        6.8    232.0    3,900         3,432       621.2       389.1
Notes:   (1)  Fuel cost:  estimated at a unit consumption of 0.305 kg of standard coal per kWh, at Y 150 per ton.
(2)  Other costs estimated at fen 0.2 per kWh of sales.
(3)  Generation:  6,000 hours for the first year of operation and 6,500 hours for the remaining years.
(4)  Sales:  using a system loss factor of 12 percent for plant use and transmission and distribution losses.
ln



- 126 -                            ANNEX 28
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1 the Electric Power Industry in China (1990).
B. Selected ReRorts and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.1 Environmental Impact Statements (March 1990).
B.2 Development of Methodology to Minimize Air Pollution, Implementation
Report (1991).
B.3 Information for Preappraisal prepared by SPEPB (September 1991).
B.4 Annual Report and Accounts of Electric Power Industry in Shandong
(1990).
B.5 SPEPB Charter.
B.6 Bidding Documents.
C.  Selected Work Sheets
C.1 Working Sheets for Economic Analysis
C.2 Working Sheets for Financial Forecasts



Chart I
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Energy
|         ~~~~Minister
Gen   Ofic                              China National Nuclear                        Eleetri Power
ilndust Cor oraton                        Dl spatching Center
Deopartment of                           China Natonal OU &
Po       s 8    elation                 Natural Gas Corporaton                    Enry Informatin Center
Department of Plannifg                      China Natonal Offshore                    EircEbo Power Planning
LLJ O rntai               01 n   OCori oraon                    &Enn  Ied  Insft os          I
.j            Department of                            China Northeast and                        Water Resources &
Caoltal Construction                       Inner-Mongolla United                      Hydowr Sumvey
Coai Industry Corporation                   & FOosgn Insttes
D epartment of Safety        
& EnvWaonmenta Protection                        China National|
Coal Co rhaton                               C                    . .'
I            ~Oeparaiiet of
PProdcdon Coinatton                          China Nafoa Lail                          Sdentifi & Technical
_Coa Mines                            Research Institutes
DOepartment                            Dovelopment Corpoton
Economic Coordination
_l  Huanenginternationaj PoweEr
Department of                                 ment Corwraon
Energv Conservation
Department of                           PowerAdrministratIons
Science & Tecnnoov
China International Water &
D Oepartment of Edurathn     |    5        Electric Power Corporation
China Huadhan
Department of                            (Group) Corporation
International Cooperation
ent of                           China Electricty Council
Personnel & Labor
Nuclear Power Leading
Oepartment of Electric Power                    Gtup, State Counc_l
Oil to Coal Conversion
J           -Department of                             Offfie, State Council
U Hv oer Dev       ent
Department of Rural
Enea & Electuafiation
Oepanment of Coal
Department of Administration
Chief En?rneer's Office         |
Chie Engineaers Ofce
for Nuclear Industry
kSrA48604a



Chart 2
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of the State Energy Investment Corporation
Vim Presidants
I~~~    _ .
| Chief Ecoronisl  t
i' cj  
-                          -~~~~~~~~ 
bwft43$4k



Chart 3
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Constction Unit
kssisiant~~~~~ Dirwor                                             Assistaor |Mto                          n
Field Office ol       Field Office of        Construcboii          Procurement      Quality Assumance       Fonal ANairs           G    aec P                   alo
Design tnstitutn      Consulting FArrns       Oepanment             Deparnment            OHtts                                                               rn
-|  Boiler  l  {   Foregn Firm   |        onSchedula B         calProcuremen                            ForeMnFtnance Ps|ucn h Pore
-| Turbine                 rm  X    LTocanicnal Section |         | Procurement                                                 Focel  ggnan   Foreicn |ffatrs 
-j    Electrical    |F  lfies Management                                                                                                                      Ruaton &
Quality Control ILFcomprernse                                                       .    Sectin           Rceration Manual
Section               Section                                                                        _   Estab'nshers
_j      civo       I                                           .                                                                   J    Leaal Atisbs            SSection
I    Engineers    }                        _ Data M4anagemet|                                                                             SdI
I    Sectlon  tI                                                                                               Tanicai Dala
J   18C                                                                                      ICesnpre@isnsive * _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Manegemri
I    Erdgneers                             4 Sale-ty Section                                                                             SLc  ntk               S
j     Chemical 
I    Enspnews    }                           |EsgmUnif  8 
_   -    .  I Budget Section I
I-F   Other                                             ---I
EnJ3Lo"ers-                              J    Tes@ia 8 TiialI
_j Local Ma10bJ 
sup Secbn  I
ISubcogwiract 
SChon I



Chart 4
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Organization Chart of Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Planning
Personnel
General Office
Deputy Director
Administration                                                         Finance
q           -Technical|
Capital Construction         |
q        ~~~Education|
(15 Headquanrts Diin)1q                  Labor and Wages
Deputy Director
Management
5   Managemont  I                              5         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Safety Inspection|
Eniomna Proitecio
4      Environmental Protection    |
Director-
Computer Information Center
-| Chiet Engineer     |
W                                                   _conomist  ~-ZPower Supply & Service
-I ChIef Econornist   |
Rural Electnfication
Chief Acoountant 
L|   Equipment & Materal Supply
Power Dispatching Center
Deput; Director         |                                      = Design Institute
= oerrduction    _
Power Testing
& Research Institute
5 Technical Schools
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _~ (4   xea Ur   |SConstruction 8
-|   DepugoDirsctor  l                                   1        & Manufacture Shops
15 power Supply Bureaus
j   18 Power Plants    |
ksrAM5O2S8c



:5
CHINA
ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Calendar year           1991                1992                1993                1994                1995                1996                1997
Key Events                                                                                 2
-0               0      4 
12 c   ° m  c,                           a ¢  -°0   0 0   0            0
0                                  -g      a         1=        -a  
.200                0 (D-         L       CDd 0 
Preparation of Boiler & TG ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Di                                                      o       E 
Procuremen Proj ectMainingJ_t ;hmm                                                                                     nim 
CIVILPWORKSACIITE
PreparationofBfe   TG13
ExcaEvalution                                                     9 Funaton
TPedupest  mals   al
Erecartion of uidin3Srucur
BoilPoer &Buxliarie     No.T
PLANT EUIPMENT     No.2I
TG & Auxiliaries        No. 1                                                                         vI
No. 2                                                                           111111E
Electrical Equipment    No. 1E   i
No. 2
instrumentation & Control No. 1                                                                        ec  
No.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io
Other SystemsNo2                                                                                          M. ..
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM                                                                                 -          
ksdj5O288d



<F/   7 7 H,      ;,,
'iHEBEI
.C    - <- '-2<'^              36                                     /
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 mR, 1?                                                                              , 20D w: 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W~A
2L<                                               r /           672ssIax r 5 t1500 I,sWM
HEBEI          .-'/X                                                                                                                              /'w 
7                                    0 MI                                         .'                                                      ' f r0
it                     SH *9_979                               A;
s"          t(735 MWj                                                                             HUANGD
H E N A N                                                                       '                                                                       j I / rh / / 2hvche  7.ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWER PROJECT
-NF ~ '   J    XJR  SSonliuquqn                                              SHANDONG  PROVINCE POWER GRID
500 kV Tren misin Line,
Jlk4;Nr,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1500 i
_SlooionEmoz   J 0     - zKoo        - I                                                                                    -              -   220:6 oV ron.r*ior biee,
30           2 0 0   MVV                                                                                       0          (3?  (>3) TOeneel Peek P.neis
i*0^>s  .---   yS  >  r  1                                                                                                                   1
C~ ~~~ ~ ~ 5"                                                                   t     2                                                                         f      9E     9    
\                            ~~~~~~~JIANGSUJ
H ENAN           i ANHUI                                            JA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75727 '  007va l9



