Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3462 CHA
(Zouxian Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
Dated July 22, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3462 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU (SPEPB).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three hundred ten million dollars ($310,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
SPEPB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Shandong Province, and Shandong Province and SPEPB, the proceeds of the loan provided 
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to SPEPB on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS SPEPB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SPEPB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A, B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and power utility practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPEPB shall carry out Parts A, B and C 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SPEPB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. SPEPB shall duly perform all its obligations under its Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPEPB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving its Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SPEPB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SPEPB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SPEPB of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPEPB
Section 3.01. SPEPB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and power utility 
practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SPEPB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and power utility practices.
Page  3
Section 3.03. SPEPB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SPEPB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SPEPB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPEPB shall from 
time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992 net cash
surplus equivalent to not less than (i) 25 percent of its average annual investment 
program for the years 1993 and 1994, and (ii) 30 percent thereafter.
(b)
Except as the Bank and SPEPB shall otherwise agree, SPEPB shall not incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of SPEPB shows 
that the projected internal cash generation of SPEPB for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of SPEPB in such year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPEPB shall not incur any debt, 
if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 
75 to 25, for the years 1992 through December 31, 1996, and 70 to 30 thereafter.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating income" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income;
 
(ii)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration 
but excluding 
depreciation;
 
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction), repayment 
of loans (including 
sinking fund payments, if any), all 
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; 
allocations to special 
funds and other cash distributions of surplus funds 
(including 
mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash outflows 
(other 
than capital expenditures) related to operations;
(iv)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating revenues minus 
the sum of: 
(A) cash operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations;
 
Page  4
(v)
The term "average annual investment program" means the average of: 
(A) the 
previous year's actual capital expenditure; (B) the 
current year's planned 
capital expenditure; and (C) the next 
year's projected capital expenditure;
(vi)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of SPEPB maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred;
(vii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or further 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into;
(viii) The term "internal cash generation of SPEPB" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, excluding receipts for 
consumer connection 
charges; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, provision for maintenance special 
fund, and sales and 
income taxes and payments in lieu of 
such taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, and 
interest and other charges on debt;
(ix)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of (A) above;
 
(x)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt excluding capitalized interest during 
construction;
(xi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SPEPB 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and SPEPB accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
SPEPB of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or 
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results
of SPEPB; 
(xii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of SPEPB not allocated 
to cover specific 
liabilities; and
 
(xiii) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. By April 30 of each year, commencing April 30, 1993, SPEPB shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, a rolling, long-term 
financial plan containing, inter alia, projected income statements, sources and 
applications of funds, and balance sheets for each of the next eight fiscal years.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SPEPB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SPEPB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For SPEPB:
Shandong Provincial Electric Power Bureau
14, Jing San Road
Jinan
Shandong Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
7193 JINAN
391110 SEP JN CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SPEPB, or by 
SPEPB on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
SPEPB's Director or such other person or persons as SPEPB's Director shall designate 
in writing, and SPEPB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER BUREAU
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
SPEPB shall: (a) carry out the tariff study under Part C (3) of the Project in 
accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the Bank; (b) based on the 
results of such study,
prepare and furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1993, an action plan for tariff structure 
improvements; and (c) implement the action plan as agreed with the Bank.
2.
SPEPB shall carry out the training under Part C (2) of the Project in accordance 
with a program agreed with the Bank.
3.
SPEPB shall carry out resettlement of persons affected by the Project in 
accordance with a plan acceptable to the Bank.
4.
SPEPB shall, in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, take all steps 
necessary to follow the mitigating measures recommended in the Environmental Impact 
Statement.
5.
SPEPB shall carry out environmental monitoring under Part C (4) of the Project 
in accordance with a program based on the Environmental Impact Statement and agreed to 
by the Bank.
