Document of
-The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5589-HU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO
THE NATIONAL BANK FOR HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
MARCH 13, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency U.it - Forint (Ft.)
Currene  Unit    1987  1988  1989  1990  December 1991
US$1.00   (Ft.)   47.0  50.4  59.1  63,2    76.6
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Cc       Convertible Currency
CMEA  - Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DPI   - Direct Foreign Investment
EBRD  - European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
EA    - Extended Arrangement
EC    - European Community
EIB   - European Investment Bank
FPP   - First Privatization Program
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
ISAL  - Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
JEXIM - Export-Import Bank of Japan
MIT   - Ministry of Industry and Trade
NBH   - National Bank of Hungary
OKGT  - National Oil and Gas Company
PHARE - Poland-Hungary Assistance for
Economic Reconstruction
RPIC  - Restructuring and Privatization Investment
Corporation
SAE   - State Administered Enterprise
SE    - State Enterprise
SME   - Self Managed Enterprise
SAMC  - State Asset Management Company
SPA   - State Property Agency
HUNGARY FISCAL YEAP.
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL UsE ONLY
UEPU9I OF MENA=
ENTEPRIS  REFRm1LOA   (ERL)
TBLE OF CONTENTS
L      ad   gam  Su                                                                        - i
Intxrductin    .......           ............,.                                      .       1
Rext I. - The kg.       ...         .      .       .      ..              .       .  .       1
A.  Structure of the Economy               .     ........................             .      1
B.  The Economic Reform Process .........................    1
C. Medium-term Framework ....... ......................  4
t I  -The  Ate                   i     Sctr .          . .......................8
A.  Role In the Economy .            .     ........................... ,      .,             8
B.  Orgaxization and Governance ........................................   9
C.  Regulatory Envirorvent and Reform .................................  10
D.  Performance and Challenges ..            ................................   11
Part III - Assigtance Strategy aMd the Role of the  ank .....                   ...........  12
Part IV - TheState   Entlrls,iseRform Progrxm  .........................  14
A.  Objectives and Scope ...............................................  14
B.  Privatization ....................................................   15
Strategy and Policies ............. ...............................  15
Implementation Progress and Action Plan ...........                ...............  17
.  Ownership and Improved Governance            ............... ...................  20
Objectives and Strategy ..........................................  20
Implementation Progress and Action Plan .........               .................  23
D.  Enterprise Restructuring ..........................................   25
Objectives and Approach ..........................................  25
Restructuring Institutions .......................................  26
Enterprise Liquidations .........................................  27
E.  Social Safety Net .................... ......................  28
F.  Program Review    ....................                 .....................   28
T IW docwnvt   ea 1|t8 d dI0Ibmtls nd may be used by reciint ol is th prfaoan  of
i.A             .Ila cutant ay not ot     be ilIod wut Wad  Dank authoiano



Pa     - The =ronosed    ......     . . . ...... .....    29
A. loan Features and Implementation              ......    29
,B. Conditions for Board Presentation and Second Tranche Release .31
C. Collaboration with Other Agencies  .................................. 31
D. bank Exposure and Creditworthiness .33
E. Summary of Bank Group Operations .,                               33
Part: VT - Reczju ndtinf ****,.,34
Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators .................................  5
.Table 2: Financing Plan (1990-2000) ....................................  5
Table 3: Financing Plan (1992-93)  . ..................................... 30
Table 4:  Status of Program Preparation and Loan Conditions ..... ....... 32
SocialIndicators of Develonment ...........  ............................ 35-36
1. Table 1: Key Macroeconomic Indicators .......    ...................... 37
Table 2: Balance of Payments in Convertible Currency ..... ......... 38-39
2. Letter of Development Policy and Policy Matrix ......  ............... 40-65
3. Supplementary Project Data Sheet .........  .......................... 66-67
4. The Status of Bank Group Operations in Hungary ......  ............... 68-69
IBRD 23624



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE REFORM LMAN (ERL)
OAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Bogrmrow:         The National Bank of Hungary
Guarantor:        The Repubblic of Hungary
Amount:           US$200 millon equivalent
Terms:            15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
DgesriptiRon:     The loan will support the Government's enterprise reform
program aimed at accelerating sharply the privatization,
commercialization and restructuring of the state enterprise
(SE) sector, thereby strengthening the market economy in
Hungary. The program has three main components: (i) the
rapid privatization of SEs through a multi-track approach
with appropriate oversight, and with the target of reducing
the share of SEs to less than 50 percent of the assets of
the competitive sector by the end of 1994; (ii) the rapid
transformation of all SEs into corporate form under
Hungary's company law, thereby placing them on the same
legal basis as private enterprises, and specific measures to
strengthen corporate governance; and (iii) support and
encouragement for restructuring processes, together with an
improved bankruptcy and liquidation framework.
Amnfits
and RiMkA:       The reforms supported by ERL would contribute to improving
productivity in the enterprise sector by introducing
effective ownership and accelerating privatization.
Privatization should help attract outside managerial
competence, marketing capacity and additional risk capital,
making it possible for enterprises to adjust more quickly
to their new economic environment. Encouraging
restructuring processes within individual enterprises is
designed to facilitate this difficult transformation
process.
There are significant difficulties and risks. The reforms
are unprecedented in their ambition and success will depend
heavily on the performance of government institutions that
are already struggling with numerous responsibilities. The
Program tries to deal with this constraint through a gradual
build-up of responsibilities, institutional development,
technical assistance linked to restructuring, and measures
to decentralize activities. The Government will also face



* ii -
growing social and political pressures from rising
unemployment, exacerbated by the sharp d&-line in trade with
ex-CEM markets, particularly the former USSR. To e.ase the
transition, the Government aims to improve unemployment
insurance and social assistance, promote new business
ventures, and enhance the functioning of the labor market,
assisted by SAL 2 and the Human Resources project approved
in mid-1991. In addition, negotLations are currently under
way between Hungary and the USSR to find ways to counteract
the rapid decline in bilateral trade.
Disbursements:   The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed in two tranches:
US$100 million upon loan effectiveness, which is expected in
April 1992, and the remaining US$100 million after t-he
implementation of key actions expected by around end 1992.



2UQO ARM3ND , RC ENDATIPM OF THETH
INERAIO&A BAMI _OR -rEONSTRUCTION AMD DIVELOMEN
TO-  EECUTIVE DIRECTO1S
ON A POSED ENTERPRISE REFMRN LON (ERL)
IN AN AMOUNT  UIVNT TQ USS209 M!LLION
IO THE NAT( J         F HUNGAR,
KIT  THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPULIC OF HUNGARY
1.    I submit the followirng report and recommendation on a proposed Enterprise
Reform loan (ERL) to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Hmungary for the equivalent of US$200 million, in support of a program
to reform the state enterprise sector in Hungary. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate
and would be disbursed in two equal trancher. of US$100 million.
TART I - THE ECOGOMY
A. Structure of the Economy
2.   Hungary, a middle-income country with a population of 10.6 million, a per
capita income now a little above US$3,000 (US$2,780 in 1990, Atlas Methodology)
has been at the forefront of the systemic transformation in Central a-d Eastern
Europe. The economy is highly dependent on the international environment; taken
together, exports and imports are equivalent to about 60 percent of GDP.
Industry,,most of which remains in the state sector, accounts for 32 percent of
GDP, 30 percent of employment and 90 percent of sxports, including from the agro-
industrial sector. Agriculture and forestry account for 17 percent of GDP and
18 percent of employment.
B. TeLnoMic Refom Process
3.   While Hungary abolished rigorous central planning in 1968, a systematic
economic reform process began only in 1985. As a result of this process and in
contrast to most other countries in the region, parts of the institutional and
legal infrastructure for a market economy were already in place by the end of the
eighties. These included a relatively modern tax system, a two-tier banking
system, a legal framework for establishing modern corporate forms such as joint
stock companies, and procedures for bankruptcy and liquidation of enterprises.
These reforms were supported by the Bank through a series of hybrid loans for
industrial restructuring and in 1988 by the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
(ISAL).
4.   Hungary thus ended the decade somewhere half-way between the centrally
planned socialist system of the 1960s and a Western-style market economy.
Foreign trade and prices had been partially liberalized, management of the
majority of state enterprises had become autonomous from the ministerial
bureaucracies, and private entrepreneurs had started operating on a small scale
in agriculture and servlies. On the other hand, the state still intervened in



-2-
the economy trough subsidy and transfer mechanisms, and much of domestic
industry was still protected from competition through licensing of imports.
State enterprise autonomy had led to decentralization and short-term profit
Maximizing behavior with some positive results. The withdrawal of the state also
meant, however, that enterprises faced little external accountability, and no
econoaic mechanism was in place that would create incentives for the preservation
and appreciation of their productive assets.
5.    In addition to these microeconomic problems, political uncertainties and
pressures weakened macroeconomic management and led to widening balance of
payments deficits.   The current account deficit in convertible currencies
lncreased to 5.2 percent of GDP in 1989 (compared to 2.9 percent in 1988), and
the continuing political uncertainties prior to Hungary's first multi-party
elections in early 1990 seriously threatened Hungary's access to international
financial markets.  This crisis called for strict stabilization policies to
restore external balance and an acceleration of structural reform. The program
adopted by the newly elected government in 1990 was supported by an IMF Standby
Arrangement and the Bank's first Structural Adjustment loan (SAL 1) for US$200
million in June 1990, with associated cofinancing of US$200 million from the
Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIK). The European Community (EC) also provided
a US$l billion adjustment loan.
6.   The program of the new Government differed from earlier efforts in
Important ways. For the first time, the reforms were guided by a clear and
unambiguous medium-term vision of creating a market economy integrated with the
Western European economies. Previous constraints, such as the dominant role of
public ownership of the means of production, and guaranteed full employment,
were no longer binding. Private (including foreign) ownership of productive
assets was welcomed, and it was recognized that the restructuring of the economy
and its integration in the international economic system would result in
unemployment, for which a social safety net was necessary.
7.    In the area of regulatory and incentive reforms, the new Government
¢ontlnued actions started in the 1985-90 period, emphasizing measures to increase
competition, such as the phased but complete liberalization of prices and
Imports, and deregulation to eliminate existing barriers to the entry of new
private enterprises. It adopted a program to eliminate subsidies, especially to
enterprises in the productive sectors, encouraged the restructuring or
liquidation of non-viable enterprises, and it took measures to alleviate the
adverse impact of the restructuring on the poor and those who would lose their
jobs.
8.    Unlike Poland or Czechoslovakia, however, Hungary did not attempt to
lmplemnt these changes all at once, but opted for a phased implementation, to
be completed within three to four years. The half-way house of the late 1980s
was not functioning well, but reforms had gone much further than elsewhere and
the difficulties  never reached  true crisis proportions.    There was  no
byperinflation. It was believed, therefore, that too drastic a shock would lead
to unnecessary disruptions: a "big bang" would be too costly in terms of the
recession and dislocation it would create, and could jeopardize the social
consensus that was necessary for the stabilization effort and for the continued
peaceful and orderly transition process.



-3-
9.    Moderately tight macroaeconomic policies and some adjustments in the foreign
exchange rate led to a significant improvement in the convertible currency
current account in 1990.  Deapite unfavorable external shocks, including the
worst drought experienced by Hungary this century, the unexpected shortfall in
oil imports from the Soviet Union, and higher energy prices in world markets, the
convertible currency current account registered a surplus of US$127 million for
1990, an improvement over 1989 equivalent to more than 5 percent of GDP. The
sources of this improvement included a US$699 million turnaround in the travel
account, partly due to restrictions on foreign travel imposed in November 1989;
a US$601 million increase in unrequited transfers, following the liberalization
of regulations on holdings of foreign currency deposits in late 1989; and strong
growth in the volume of exports to the convertible currency area (9.5 percent).
10.   Unfortunately, in 1990, the strengthening of the current account of the
balance of payments was largely oZfset by the continuing weakness of the capital
account.   Private creditors, especially commercial banks, were reluctant to
maintain their exposure in Hungary, partly due to the overall political and
economic uncertainties in the region. There was an outflow of US$1.2 billion of
short-term capital and the medium- and long-term exposure of commercial banks
decreased by about US$800 million. While this was partly compensated by higher
inflows of capital fs:om official sources, and by the first signs of significant
direct foreign investment (DFI), Hungary's reserves remained precariously low,
and, at the end of the year, were equivalent to only one month of the projdcted
imports for 1991.
11.   Moreover, stabilization was achieved at considerable cost in terms of
output. The contractionary domestic demand management policies, necessary to
improve the current account balance, combined with the external shocks (including
the 26 percent fall in the volume of ruble exports due to the collapsing regional
markets), led to a 4 percent decline in real GDP. Real household consumption
fell 3 percent. At the same time, inflation accelerated to 29 percent, ten
percentage points higher than initially programmed. The higher than planned
inflation reflected strong cost push factors, including devaluation, the removal
of consumer subsidies, and excise tax increases. In the second half of the year,
monetary policy accommodated these cost push pressures, since a further
tightening to meet the inflation target would have deepened the severe recession.
12.   Despite  these negative  features,  on balance  and in comparison to
performance in most other parts of the Region, the results of 1990 were
encouraging. Hungary staved off the external liquidity crisis and maintained its
perfect debt servicing record in an especially difficult year. Exports to the
West continued to grow strongly, and a large part of this growth came from
production in small and medium enterprises, whose mumber more than doubled.
There were signs of increased confidence in the Hungarian economy among foreign
investors, reflected in the significant increase in the uaiber of joint ventures
with foreign partners, from about 800 at the end of 1989 to 2,300 by end 1990.
The inflow of DPI in 1990 was nearly double that in the previous year.
13.  While the crisis had been contained in 1990, the economic situation
remained fragile and 1991 promised to be another difficult year. International
reserves were low, commercial creditors were still cautious about maintaining
their exp-:. -re in the region, and Hungary's external debt servicing requirements



-4-
remained high (debt service payments were equivalent to 66 percent of convertible
currency export .runings in 1990). The shift to world market prices and the use
of convertible currencies in trade among ex-CNEA member countries from the
beginnlng of 1991, combined with the deteriorating economic situation in the
entire region, especially in the Soviet Union, meant a virtual collapse of such
trade. Exports from Hungary to this region were projected to fall by 45-50
percent, which translated into a loss exceeding US$2 billion in export revenue.
Even with a successful redirection of soxs of these exports to the West, the
country once again faced serious balance-of-payments difficulties in 1991.
14. Hungary's response to the sharply deteriorating external environment in
1991 has beea: (i) to recomuit itself to tight macroeconomic policies with the
support of the IMF and the Bank (an Extended Arrangement for SDR 1,148 million
was approved by the IMF Board in February 1991 ana a second Structural Adjustment
loan, SAL 2, was approvid on June 19, 1991), and (ii) to further deepen the
process of structural change and systemic transformation.
15.   Economic activity in 1991 was weaker than initially expected, because of
the larger-than-anticipated decline in trade with the former CMEA area. There
was a shortfall in tax revenues, and, aa .q consequence, the fiscal balance was
weaker than projected at the beginning of 1991. Inflation also continued at a
high level, estimated at 35 percent for 1991 as a whole, as a result of
significant cost push pressur X arising primarily from price liberalization and
the elimination of subsidies. However, these impacts were absorbed in the first
months of the year, and the monthly inflation rate declined to about 1.5 percent
in the second half of the year. In order to maintain competitiveness, the forint
was devalued in January 1991 by 15 percent, and in November 1991 by 6 percent,
against the basket of convertible currencies to which it is pegged.
16.    On the other hand, the deeper recession has been one of the main reasons
that the balance-of-payments performance was much better than originally
anticipated.  Instead of the US$1.2 billion deficit projected at the beginning
of the year, the current account recorded a small suw,plus in 1991. The 8 percent
contraction is real GDP is estimated to have lowered import demand by almost 5
percent.  Furthermore, the deakness in domestic demand -- private consumption
declined by 7 percent and fixed investment by 8 percent -- has encouraged the
shift of sales to Western export markets that began in 1990. Although the
impressive current account performance has reduced the pressure on the balance
of payments, Hungary cannot be expected to sustain a current account equilibrium
attained at such a depressed level of economic activity.
C. Medium-rm Framwk
17.  Ernl2al Objectivales.   Key macro-economic indicators are shown in Table
1 and the financing plan in ablek 2. More detailed indicators and balance of
payments figures are shen in Amex1.   For 1992 and beyond, the main objectives
of macroeconomic policy will shift from the improvement of creditworthiness to



- ~ ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 5
Est.    ........Projeted d...-....
1990    1991    1992   199395   196-f2000
tanuwal percentage changes-,
Gross Dinstic Product (GDP)                     .4.3    -7.r      1.8      3.5       4.9
of which:
ndustry                                       -8.8   -13.4       3.4      3.6       4.8
Agriculturo & Forestry                        .8.3      0.4    -0.4       2.7       3.0
Servfces                                       0.5    -6.3       1.4      3.6       5.3
Weal private conwsupton                         -2.6    -7.0       0.8      2.0       4.3
Narginat Doemstic Savings RIte                  14.9    24.4    15.8    17.4          16.6
Export Votul                                   -18.3    -3.9       8.2      7.4       6.6
laport Volum                                   -13.4    -4.8       3.5      6.7       6.4
(Share of market prieo MDP)
Gross InvtStent                                 23.0    23.0    23.0    21.8          20.8
Ron-Governumnt Invostment                       17.8    IL.7    19.1    18.5         18.2
Goverruent Ihwestmnt                            5.2      4.3      4.0      3.3       2.6
National Savings                                23.7    24.0    21.7    20.4          19.0
uon-fovenuamnt savings                         14.6    15.4    11.0    10.6          11.5
¢worent Saings                                  9.1      8.6    10.7       9.9        7.5
Savings-investment uap                           0.7      1.      -1.3    ^1.4       .1.8
Iwoowniont                                     -3.2    -3.3    -8.0    -7.9         -6.7
Goveriwnt                                       3.9      4.3      6.7      6.5       4.9
Current Acount Balata                           0.7      1.0      1.3    -1.4       -1.8
Eprts (GFS)                                     33.6    35.3    34.8    36.4         40.3
Imrt   tUGIFS                                   30.7    32.7    33.9    35.2         39.6
fan: Ninistry of Firnace Natinal Bank of Nuniiary      staff estimtes.
EMl: Financing Pig
CUSMillions)
Est     .......Projected.
199      991    199       1993    1994    199
currnt Account Deficit                         -230    -327       493      438     611      749
Principal Rpwens                               2669    2540    2601    2038    2428    3045
INW                                           322       79       47       52     228      264
135                                           108      113      116      114     173      22
OfficIat                                       37       23      s8       125      102      170
Private Camrciea                             2202    2326    1890    1748    1925    2389
lot Short-tem Capital COutflaow)                893      593      400      189      190     219
OLY Asse Co**Utf Low)                            96      141      100      107      114     123
lotat Ffnancing Needs                          3428    2948    3594    2m         3343    4136
Gross Diswurwee ts:                            2505    3878    2506    2667    2213    2488
INF                                           174      964      450      450       0        0
tlE                                           268      386      454      401     249      256
OfffIdol                                      503      812      220      199       97      112
Private C4¢merell                             1560    1716    1381    1616    1867    2120
Direct Foreijr InvsOatmnt                       337    1250    1250    1350    1430    1500
Change In Reserves C(adeorease)                 586   -2181    -162   -1245    -300         149
Tota Efimm   immaue                            3428    298       3594    2M7       Ml4   4136
gg s letion  Bank Of Hungary and staff estimtes.



-6-
the reduction of the rate of inflation and the restoration of sustainable
economic growth. Inflation is targted at no more than 10 percert by the end of
1993. In order to achieve this target, the authorities must maintain fiscal
discipline, and restrain recourse to inflationary (monetary) financing of the
deficit. As experience shows, budgetary revenues are likely to erode further
du,ing the transition.   Government savings therefore must come from reduced
outlays on subsidies, improv_d targeting of income maintenance programs and the
elimination of transfers through privatization of commercial activities currently
performed by the government; this should also lead to a substantial reduction in
the size of the government.
18.   The restoration of economic growth will depend on continued export growth
and increases in capital and labor productivity. Impetus for productivity gains
should be provided by the general increase in competitive pressures in the
economy associated with import liberalization and increasing export penetration,
mostly in OECD markets. The withdrawal of the government from the financing of
investments in the competitive sectors of the economy and the dynamic expansion
of the pr4vate sector, including through new start ups and privatized companies,
is also expected to boost productivity. The generation of higher government
savings should allow private entrepreneurs to profit from the bulk of the
incr,ase in domestic credit.   These changes, supported by the restructuring of
industry along product lines that can compete internationally, should lead to an
ace.leration of CDP growth.
19.   Financing Needs.  No further decline in exports to the ex-CMEA countries
ia projected in 1992, while dsmand for Hungarian exports in Western markets is
projected to remain strong. A modest expansion of domestic demand -- the. first
in four years -- is also projected. Private consumption is projected to increase
by 0.8 percent and fixed investment by 3 percent in 1992. For these reasons,
real GDP is projected to increase slightly. The resulting expansion of import
demand is the main cause of the increase in the current account deficit projected
in 1992.  The expected acceleration of economic growth after 1992, however,
requires faster import growth, and hence the current docount deficit is projected
to widen to about US$750 million in 1995 (Table 2). Principal repayments on
Hungary's large external debt are projected to average US$2.5 billion in 1992-95.
In addition, there is a need to continue to build international reserves. By the
end of 1991, international reserves reached US$3.3 billion, up from US$1.1
billion at the end of 1990, and equivalent to 4.3 months of imports. In view
of the continuing uncertainty in the regional environment (paras 22-23), it would
be prudent to maintain reserves at least equivalent to about 4 months' imports.
Thus, the projected total financing need rises from US$3.6 billion in 1992 to
US$4.1 billion in 1995.
20.   There has been a remarkable increase in DPI. After a near doubling in 1990
to US$337 million, the cash DFI inflow in 1991 is estimated to have reached



-7-
US$1.25 billion.- This dynamic development, together with the expansion of
private investment opportunities as the economy develops and privatization
accelerates, suggests that an inflow of the same magnitude may be sustainable
over the medium term. However, there remains a need for significant medium- and
long-term loan funds, projected to average US$2.5 billion during 1992-95.
Private commercial financing is expected to be the most important source. This
would reverse the shift in creditor composition that emerged during the liquidity
difficulties of 1990-91. Gross debt would remain at a level of about US$22
billion.  The debt-to-GDP ratio would decline from 67 percent in 1991 to 46
percent by 1995 and 29 percent by 2000. Despite the CMEA shock, Htngary's
ability to reorient exports towards Western markets permits a reduction in the
debt-service ratio in the near term and a more significant reduction in the
medium term.   The debt-service ratio would decline from 35 percent in 1991 to
26 percent in 1995 and continue to decline thereafter.
21.   The Bank's share of total debt would increase from 8 percent in 1991 to 12
percent in 1995, and remain at about that level until 2000. Debt service to the
Bank would increase from 2.1 percent of export earnings in 1991 to 2.3 percent
in 1997, and then decline to 1.7 percent in 2000. Measured as a share of medium-
and long-term debt service, debt service to the Bank would increase from 6.0
percent in 1991 to 12 percent in the medium to long term.  These exposure
indicators remain well within the Bank's guidelines.
22.   Uisks to the Medium-term Scenario.   The macroeconomic  scenario is
vulnerable to significant external risks arising from political uncertainties in
neighboring countries and the possibility of slower-than-projected growth in
Western Europe, which would jeopardize Hungary's export growth prospects. While
such a development would probably lead to lower real GDP growth and thereby also
reduce import demand, on balance Hungary's flnancing needs would be higher.
Foreign investment may also be affected if the regional situation deteriorates,
and this could affect as well H.ngary's access to commercial borrowings.
23.   Fluctuations in international prices and interest rates pose other risks,
and the composition of Hungary's foreign trade and debt also make it vulnerable
to fluctuations in exchange rates. A US$1/barrel increase in the price of
petroleum is estimated to cost Hungary US$70 million through the direct effect
of higher oil prices as well as through higher payments for oil products and
natural gas. It is estimated that a 10 percent depreciation of the U.S. dollar
against major currencies would result in an increase in interest payments,
measured in U.S. dollars, of US$119 million.   In addition to the effect on
interest payments, a further loss of US$228 million to the trade balance would
1 Through 1989, most DFI came from Germany and Austria, mostly for
smaller ventures in services, tourism and manufacturing. After 1990, however,
the USA became the biggest invm stor, due to a few large investments tied in
part to early privatizations. There is now more diversification, with
Switzerland, Franme, Italy and the Scandinavian countries becoming important.
By number, most foreign ventures are in services and tourima; however, in 1990
and 1991, a majority of foreign investment is estimated to have gone to
industry.



occur, mainly due to Germany's larger share in Hungary's imports than in its
exports (42 percent compared with 30 percent). Finally, a one percentage point
increase in LIBOR would cost Hungary an estimat I US$100 million. These factors
call for a significant reserve build-up to . .uce Hungary's vulnerability to
external risks.
24.   Montoring Macroeconomic Perfmnce.  Macroeconomic performance is being
monitored under SAL 2. In 1991, there was satisfactory macroeconomic performance
towards current account and fiscal deficit targets agreed upon under SAL 2. The
release of the second tranche of the ERL would be conditional upon continued
satisfactory macro performance towards these agreed macroeconomic indicators and
targets, including agreement on the 1992 budget and financing plan.
PART II - THE STATE ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Rolef in the Economy
25.   In the middle of 1990, there were about 2,400 state enterprises (SEs), of
which about half were self-managed and about 700 were state administered (these
forms are discussed in paras 28-30). The remaining were subsidiaries of SEs,
belonged to trusts or were SEs already under company law. The SEs still produce
most of the country's industrial output. In 1989, the registered private non-
agricultural sector provided only 6 percent of GDP.   While this share has
increased very rapidly since then, it is still modest. Precise accounting is
difficult due to rapid chatges in the economy and a lack of accurate statistics
on the private sector.
26.   The majority of SEs are in the industrial sector, which is most seriously
affected by import liberalization, reductions in subsidies and the collapse of
CMEA trading arrangements. The SEs dominate the industrial sector. In 1989,
1,039 large and medium enterprises, all SEs, accounted for 89 percent of total
industrial employment and about 93 percent of industrial sales.  Within the
industrial sector, the engineering subsector was the most important, with 38
percent of employment, 27 percent of net sales, 27 percent of convertible
currency exports and 70 percent of CMEA exports. With CMEA exports amounting to
almost two-thirds of total sales, the subsector has been particularly vulnerable
to the collapse of this market.   The second-ranking subsector was chemical
industries, followed by light industry, metallurgy, electrical energy, and
mining.
27. Typically, the SEs were large, excessively integrated and, until recently,
faced little competition, domestically or from imports. This was reflected in
the high degree of concentration in Hungary's industrial sector. In 1989, 80
percent of gross production in the industrial SE sector came from enterprises
with revenues of more than Ft. 1 billion. In recent years, there has been a
large increase in the number of small private enterprises and cooperatives,
including joint ventures. The reforms also led to increased import competition
and the entry of existing enterprises into new areas, resulting in increasing
competition in the domestic market.   The SE sector has also begun to show
evidence of a shift to smaller-scale and more specialized operations.



- 9-
B. rganizatILon and Governance
28.   During most of the post-war years, the SEs in Hungary were administered
under tight government controls, with investment decisions and spending plans
subject to detailed evaluations and approvals, and most of any operating profits
being captured by the state. In Hungary, as throughout Eastern Europe, it became
increasingly clear that these arrangements caused severe distortions in the
decision-makirg processes and stifled initiative and responsibility. In 1985 the
Government introduced new rules for SEs, with the aim of enhancing their autonomy
and performance by separating management functions from state oversight
responsibility. As a result, SEs were classified into two major groups: state
administered enterprises (SAEs), directly under state supervision, and self-
managed enterprises (SMEs), which could operate virtually without government
involvement.2 Most SEs in the competitive sectors were declared SMEs.
29.   The SHEs gained increased operational autonomy as a result of these
reforms, which made it possible for a few progressive managers to carry out
significant internal restructurings. The reforms did not, however, lead to the
desired general changes in SE behavior, since the system of self-management in
SNE. did not provide the proper framework for the efficient management of state
assets and maximization of long-term profitability.   The 1985 reforms led to a
virtual elimination of the Government's role as owner, without establishing
alternative forms of ownership, thus eliminating any longer-term interest in the
preservation and appreciation of the enterprises' capital. This led to pressures
for wage increases, allowed continued inefficient use of resources by
enterprises, and made difficult the large-scale shedding of surplus labor,
important for the longer-term survival of many enterprises.   The enterprise
councils consisted solely of management and staff representatives (later also
with one representative of the founding ministry), and thus did not provide the
opportunity to supplement the management boards with outside points of view and
expertise. The enterprises were managed in an inward-looking fashion, and the
councils clearly did not provide the oversight and control of management that is
important in any enterprise.
30.   The SAEs, on the other hand, continued in principle to be subject to
controls by government entities, although with less detailed involvement than in
the past. The managements of these enterprises, by and large, saw themselves as
subject to government instructions, and the ability to negotiate successfully
with various government authorities was still considered a key criterion for
managerial success. At the same time, the sectoral ministries were not equipped
to h"anie ownership responsibilities in a market economy, and were unable to
exercise effectively the responsibility for both sector policies and SE
ownership.
31. Under increasing pressure from these performance problems, the Government
sought further reform of SE orgaaiization and governance in 1988-89. The Law of
2 SEs with more than 500 employees were to be managed by enterprise
councils (in which 50 percent of the members represent the employees and 50
per. 4Ut represent enterprise management), while smaller enterprises were to be
govern3d by general assemblies of employees.



- 10 -
Economic Associations, enacted in 1988, provided for the creation of different
types of companies and tried to lay the foundation for a modern, corporate
economy. The law envisioned the transformation of SEs into corporate form; this
was subsequently authorized under the 1989 Law of Transformation, which also
provided for SE privatization. The initial impact of these laws was rather
disappointing and resulted in only a limited number of transformations of SEs.
Managements of SgEs opted instesd for a process of partial self-privatization by
transferring some of their productive assets into newly formed joint ventures,
leaving the less productive assets, and most of the debt, in the untransformed
parent enterprises. These so-called spontaneous privatizations, carried out in
1989, transformed some state-owned assets into corporate form with mixed
ownership. However, the lack of oversight permitted abuses of the process,
resulting in a public outcry against it. It also compounded the problems of the
parent enterprises, which remained SMEs.
32.   To put more order into this process of spontaneous privatization, the
Government enacted two more laws in 1990. These laws established procedures to
"protect" state-owned assets and established the State Property Agency (SPA) as
the focal point for the privatization process. SPA was made responsible for
overseeing all privatizations, including spontaneous privatizations, and for
managing the portfolio of the state's shares in transformed/privatized companies.
While this did check abuses of the privatization process, the problem of the
absent "owner  of SEs remained unresolved.   The "centralization"  of the
privatization process also led to delays as SPA was unable to effectively handle
a large number of transactions at the same time.
C.   Regulatory Environment and Reform
33.   The reforms relating to ownership and control discussed above were
accompanied by reforms in regulations and incentives, which have gone a long way
toward establishing an environment close to a Western-style market economy.
Building on the progress achieved in the second half of the 1980s (paras 3-4),
the present Government took further decisive steps to achieve the intended
transition. Trade with both convertible currency and former CMEA markets has
been largely liberalized. The licensing of imports from the convertible currency
markets has been eliminated for goods competing with almost 72 percent of
domestic industrial production, and further liberalization is envisaged.
Starting January 1, 1991, a large part of Hungary's foreign trade, which was
previously conducted with CMEA countries under government control, was freed from
controls and now takes place at world prices without state intervention. Most
prices, including almost 90 percent of consumer goods prices, have been
liberalized, and subsidies are being continuously reduced.
34. The Government has also taken steps to improve labor mobility through the
establishment of labor exchanges, improved retraining facilities and an adequate
unemployment insurance scheme to provide a safety net for the increasing number
of unemployed. As a result, there is now significant labor mobility, in spite
of problems of housing primarily in the Budapest area. Wages can be negotiated
freely between employers and employees. Enterprises undergoing restructuring are
able to reduce their workforce without undue difficulties.



- 11 -
D. Performane and Challenges
35.   The liberalized regulatory environment provided SEs the opportunity to
allocate resources more freely.   However, many SEs did not utilize this
possibility; as a result, the reforms did not lead to the desired growth of the
SEs. This is most critical in the industrial sector, where in the period 1984-
1989 gross output increased by an annual average of only 0.5 percent and total
factor productivity by 1.0 percent, well below the increase required to maintain
international competitiveness. Industrial output fell by 4 percent in 1989, a
trend which accelerated sharply in 1990 and 1991, partly as a result of the
collapse of the CHEA market. The fall in production was most marked in medium-
and large-SEs, where production in 1990 declined by 8.5 percent, primarily in
such subsectors as mining, metallurgy, machinery and light industry. A similar
decline took place in 1991.
36.   The viability of many enterprises depends on their ability to restructure
rapidly their operations with much greater focus on quality and marketing; this
will require management skills different from their traditional modes of
operation.   While some important enterprises have undertaken significant
restructurings, often assisted by Bank industrial restructuring projects, the
majority have still not responded effectively to the restructuring challenge they
face as a result of the collapse of the CNEA market and increased competition
from imports. Performance continues to be adversely affected by insufficient
managerial expertise, inadequate organizational structures and management
systems, and by outmoded technology and production facilities.
37.  The accelerated restructuring of medium- and large-scale enterprises
represents a key challenge for Hungary's economic reform program. This requires
the removal of the remaining significant constraints that affect the ability of
enterprises to adjust to increasing competition and financial discipline and to
undertake constructive restructurings. The nature and relative importance of
those constraints has changed substantially in recent years.    The partial
reforms of the late 1980s, and particularly the reforms undertaken by the present
Government, have enhanced the degree of competition and market pressure.
Financial discipline has been substantially strengthened through these reforms
and by reducing the access of weak SEs to state resources. As a result of the
experience since 1985 with the existing SE forms, however, there is increasing
recognition in Hungary that the effectiveness of these reforms is reduced very
considerably by the lack o0 "real" owners that effectively exercise their
ownership interests, and that this is the most important constraint that
adversely affects the performance and restructuring ability of enterprises.
38. An efficient ownership and governance structure for enterprises must
provide: (i) substantial operational autonomy for the enterprise managements;
(ii) an enterprise organ responsible for longer-term strategic issues and
oversight of management performance; and critically; (iii) accountability to an
owner (or owners) who has an interest in the maintenance and growth of the
capital of the enterprise. In neither the SMEs nor the SAEs has there been a
significant ownership influence on the managements to restructure and strengthen
competitiveness, and in neither case have the managements had a clearly perceived
and accepted mandate to undertake restructurings that could be painful to
important interest groups within their enterprises.    Accordingly,  it is



- 12 -
Important to improve enterprise governance through the establishment of effective
ownership, whenever possible through rapid privatization or, as long as public
property continues, from improved exercise of state ownership and corporate
governance. Hungary's ownership reform program, which is discussed in Part IV,
is designed to achieve this objective.
PART III - ASSISTC  STAE  AMR THE  LE OF THE
39.  The Bank'o assistance strategy in the 19809 focussed on encouraging and
supporting the phased economic reforms described above.  This strategy wvs
implemented mainly through a series of loans for industrial restructuring and the
FY88 Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan, combining quick-disbursing funds to
support Institutional and policy reform with investment finance to support
restructuring at the enterprise and sub-sector levels.   These loans were
supplemented by investment loans in sectors such as agriculture, energy and
transport. The FY90 Financial Systems Modernization Project provided important
support for the strengthening of the financial sector, including new Central Bank
and Banking Laws that were recently approved by Parliament.
40. The industrial restructuring loans and the irdustrial sector adjustment
loan supported the wide-ranging policy, legislative and institutional reforms,
Which helped overcome major ideological and political barriers and laid much of
the foundation for a functioning market economy. Major actions supported by
these loans Included the introduction of a modern tax system, establishment of
a two-tier banking xystem (1987), the Law of Economic Associations (1988) that
established modern company forms, and the Transformation Law (1989) that
established the framoeork for enterprise corporatization and privatization. The
overall impact of the reforms on economic performance was mixed, however, as a
result of the problems discussed in Part II.
41. The restructuring loans also provided funds to implement restructuring
efforts in enterprises.   The earlier loans largely supported investments,
preappraised by the Bank, in selected subsectors. In the absence of commercial
banks, funds were channeled through the National Bank of Hungary (NBH). A second
group of projects moved toward industry-wide restructuring support and devolved
decision-making and resource allocation authority to the emerging banking system.
These projects also included technical assistance components in support of
institutional development and training, strengthening of banks, and analysis of
ludustrial subsectors.   The overall implemontation performance of these
operations was satisfactory and in line with the original objectives. Several
borrowing enterprises improved sufficiently enough to become pioneers in
Hungarian enterprise  nagement, permitting their early privatization.3   The
loans were less effective in reaching large numbers of enterprises.
3 This included the large lightbulb manufacturer, Tungsram, which was
acquired by General Electric in one of the first privatization transactions in
Hungary, and the pharmaceutical company, Chinoin, where the French company,
SONAFI, now has a 40 percent stake.



- 13 -
42.  With the coming to power in 1990 of a democratically elected government,
the Bank's assistance has entered a new phase. In support of the Government's
objective of radical transformation to a predominantly private, market economy,
the Bank approved two Structural Adjustment loans focussing on measures to
increase competition in domestic markets, a final round of trade liberalization
and reforms of social programs. The Enterprise Reform Loan would complement the
SALs by supporting the fundamental reform of the enterprise sector. Following
this loan, Bank operations will increasingly emphasize investment financing to
deepen the implementation of structural reforms and promote the development of
private sector activities in different segments of the economy. The reforms
under the ERL will in particular be followed up through future operations in
support of private sector development and financial sector modernization. A
Private Sector Assessment in FY93 is expected to lead to a subsequent operation
to support private sector development, while a proposed FY93 Second Financial
Systems Modernization project would strengthen further the institutional and
operational capabilities of the financial sector and support the implementation
of policy reforms necessary to increase the efficiency of the sector in
mobilizing and allocating resources. An FY93 Product Market Development project
would support improvements in the distribution and marketing of products for both
the domestic and export markets.  Other proposed projects would assist the
development of the telecommunications network and support policies to increase
competition in transport and agriculture. In this regard, the Bank also plans
to assist Hunrgary in the privatization of agriculture: inter alia, in order to
help ensure that the economies of scale in large farms (state farms and
cooperatives) are maintained while the assets are transferred to individuals or
groups of individuals. Institutional arrangements for support services in the
new environment will also be addressed. Energy conservation and environmental
protection, currently being identified in sector work, would be promoted through
an FY94 Energy and Environment project. Other operations are expected to provide
support for policy and institutional improvements that may be necessary in the
development of the health sector and human resources in Hungary.
43.   In addition to its direct lending, the Bank will continue to help Hungary
mobilize official and private external capital in the most appropriate form.
After more than a decade of active Bani participation in Hungary's reform
efforts, in close cooperation with the DMF, cooperation with Hungary has now
entered a new phase characterized by a greater number of important multilateral
players. Hungary can continue to count on substantial support from the EC, the
EIB, JEXIM and bilateral donors, and the EBRD has commenced operations. For
these official flows and associated technical assistance programs to have maximum
effect without excessively burdening the administrative process, a great deal of
coordination is desirable. The Bank will make every effort to design and manage
its cooperation in an economic and flexible manner in order to help maximize
Hungary's benefits from its international assistance, as exemplified by the
involvement of EBRD and the PHARE program in components under the ERL (para 87).
44.    A major focus of the Bank's effort will be private capital, which is
beginning to show extraordinary interest in Hungarian prospects. The development
of the private sector will be encouraged through work to strengthen the enabling
environment for private investors; this is also being addressed in particular by
the recent SAL, this ERL, and the projects in the financial sector. The Bank is
also providing technical assistance in external debt management, including risk



- 14 -
and liabilities management. The Bank will coordinate closely with IFC and MIGA
on the development of foreign investment, capital markets and privatization. IFC
has played a more direct role in promoting joint ventures with foreign partners,
including through its participation in the first foreign investment fund in
Hungary (First Hungary Fund) and in the Suzuki joint venture agreement.  So far,
it has made gross commitments of about US$154 million for 15 operations. A
resident representative is in place, and IFC is looking actively for other
investments ir. Hungary.
45.  The Bank's Role under the Proposed Pro ram. Through close cooperation with
the Government in the course of preparation of the proposed ERL, the Bank has
been instrumental in both the conceptualization and the detailed design of the
integrated SE reform program for privatization, enterprise governance and
restructuring (discussed in Part IV). The success of the program is critical to
the transformation of the Hungarian economy and its overall economic prospects.
If successful, it could also become a valuable example for the many other
covuitries embarked on the difficult path of systemic transformation throughout
the Region.
PART IV - THE STASI ENTERPRISE REFORM PROGRAM
A. gbJectives and Scope
46. Complementing the macroeconomic and regulatory reforms, the enterprise
reform program would support another major dimension of the transformation
process: comprehensive reform of the enterprise sector focussing squarely on
ownership and privatization. It is now fully recognized in Hungary, as in the
rest of Eastern Europe, that an efficient market economy requires not only well-
functioning product markets and incentives relating to short-term cost
minimization, but also well-functioning asset markets with incentives for asset
preservation and asset appreciation. Such asset markets cannot emerge unless
there are long-term profit maximizing owners operating in the3e markets. The
program is designed to support the rapid transformation of the ownership
structure in the Hungarian economy, within the stabilizing macroeconomic policy
framework contained in the IMF' s 1991 Extended Arrangement and the Bank's Second
Structural Adjustment loan. The reform has two principal objectives. First, it
seeks to establish effective ownership for all enterprises, either through their
rapid privatization or through the establishment of mechanisms allowing for
responsible ownership to be exercised by the state. Second, it aims to encourage
decisive restructuring in order to speed up the adjustment to new market
realities and to establish the foundations for long-term productivity growth.
47. The program to achieve these objectives, which is contained in the
Government's policy letter (&Mgn. 2), is ambitious, yet realistic. Privatization
is to be accelerated to reduce the share of SEs in the competitive part of the
economy to less than 50 percent by the end of 1994. In parallel, effective
corporate governance is to be introduced in all SEs immediately, starting with
their conversion into company form by end-1992 at the latest, in order to
accelerate the privatization process and, in the interim, to resolve decisively
the problem of the "absent" owner. Restructuring is be encouraged through new



- 15 -
market-oriented   institutions   and   improved   implementation   of   the
liquidation/bankruptcy framework. The design of the program has evolved based
on early results and has required the Government to face numerous tradeoffs and
policy choices, often without the benefit of comparable tnternational experience.
The following sections elaborate on the overall strategy, policies, early
progress and aotion plans in the three key areas of privatization, ownership
reform and restructuring.
B.  XUYAtLAAtL=
StatSX and Policies
48. The primary objective of the Government's privatization policy is to
Improve the viability and efficiency of enterprises and to strengthen the
competitive forces in the economy. Secondary objectives of privatization are to
raise government revenues, develop the local capital market, and spread ownership
widely among the domestic population.
49. To this end, the Government's privatization program aims at the rapid
transfer of the ownership of SEs to responsible private investors through sales
of enterprises. There will not be any form of "free" distribution of shares
(except for the compensation notes that are discussed in para 56 and possible
transfers to local governments, the social security administration and churches).
This is in line with the Government's primary privatization objective -- to
attract into the SE actors who place their own resources at risk and can be
expected to act as real owners. The Government has decided to open up all SEs
for early privatization to domestic and foreign investors, with a limited number
of specific exceptions, thus removing any remaining ambiguities in the minds of
interested investors (para 73). While the Government hopes in the longer term
to privatize virtually the entire competitive SE sector, its medium-term target
is to reduce the share of state-owned property to less than 50 percent of the
competitive sector by the end of 1994.   Based on estimated assets in the
competitive sector of Ft. 2,000 billion, and summary estimates of debt ratios and
market values, the achievement of this target would require average minimum
annual privatization transactions of about Ft. 38 billion (US$520 million
equivalent) over the period 1991-94.  The target, though ambitious, appears
feasible. Assuming that one-half to two-thirds of all privatizations would take
place through DPI, they would account for between 21 and 28 percent of the
projected DFI over this time period.
50.   Within the framework of its overall strategy, the principles governing
privatization transactions are that: (i) the process shall be transparent and
open; (ii) SEs shall be valued, taking into account market conditions and future
earnings capacity, in order to establish a reference price for the seller (SPA
or the SE itself) and to meet important due diligence requirements; and (iii)
competitive processes shall be used to the fullest extent possible in the
interest of transparency and price. While there will be variations on a case-by-
case basis, preference will be given to strategic investors who will take a
significant equity stake in the firms and exert greater influence and control
over managers. Except for a special credit facility for domestic investors, and
for the tax incentives that apply to all foreign investors, the Government will



- 16 -
not give buyers special privileges, allowances, or new monopoly rights to attract
interest or to maximize sale price and revenues, since this would sacrifice the
overriding goals of competition and efficiency. Revenue considerations will also
not interfere with other important factors of success, such as demonstration
effects and speed. For example, shares for sale through a flotation on the stock
market will be priced to ensure a favorable market response and to register an
early demonstration of success for future such sales, rather than to maximize
revenues for the Government.
51.   The Government's privatization strategy will be carried out through
orderly sales of SEs using an increasingly decentralized multi-track approach:
(i) active privatization programs, where SEs are offered for sale by SPA with
help from domestic and international consultants; (ii) enterprise-initiated
privatizations, under SPA overview; (iii) privatizations of retail and catering
units under the overall control of SPA; (iv) buyer-initiated privatizations
managed by SPA; and (v) the recently added decentralized self-privatizations
using SPA-appointed agents. Initially, the Government placed prime emphasis on
the active programs; however, the priority has lately shifted decisively towards
enterprise-initiated privatizations and self-privatizations, which are now seen
as the way to increase the pace of privatization, especially for smaller
enterprises (paras 61 and 64).
52.   In addition to the five main privatization tracks, work is also under way
to broaden the range of technlques to include, in addition to sales of SEs,
mesures such as the transfer of control, but not necessarily full ownership, to
the private sector (through graduated sales, management contracts and leases, and
the contracting out of services), the grouping of comparable SEs for sale as a
package, and the direct sale of SE assets. The Government will also distribute
ownership more widely by selling shares on the stock exchange, to the extent
possible in view of likely capital constraints and the possible impact on the
secondary market of a large number of new issues.
53.   Large firms and monopolies will be privatized after adequate measures have
been taken to increase competition. Such measures may include the break-up of
firms into smaller and competing parts, the separation of competitive and non-
competitive activities, and the removal of barriers to entry.   The Government
intends to encourage competition and to invite private capital to invest in
present monopolistic sectors including, in particular, oil and gas,
telecommunications, and electric power. However, this should take place only
within the framework of a credible, enforceable and predictable regulatory
regime. The Government has started with the break-up of the national oil and gas
company, which was completed in June 1991. A new mining law will, inter alia,
provide for an appropriate sectoral administration for oil and gas and for
private (including foreign) investments in mining (including for oil and gas)
exploration and production.   Similar approaches will be adopted for other
monopolistic sectors.
54.  With regard to the sensitive issues surrounding prior claims on present SE
assets,  the Government has adopted a policy of compensation as against
restitution, partly in order not to complicate the privatization process. A
recently approved law provides for partial compensation for past confiscations
of property. Under this scheme, compensation notes of up to Ft. 60 billion may
1-



- 17 -
be issued to eligible claimants, to be used in part for the acquisition of shares
and company assets from SPA. The maln policies for the use of the compensation
notes include:  (i) SPA will have flexibility in accepting notes as full or
partial payment; and (Li) it will offer a series of instruments in a timely
manner for the holders of compensation notes, possibly including new instruments
such as participation in investment funds.
55. The Government is also aware that for a number of privatizations, a clear
agreement will be required concerning the responsibility for clean-up of past
environmantal  damage,  particularly  hazardous  waste.    In  this  context,
emvironmental audits are likely to be part of the privatization process for some
SEs. Work is also under way to develop a program to introduce appropriate and
enforceable industrial environmental standards, including a phased, multi-year
schedule of intermediate standards for existing enterprises, backed up by
enforcement to ensure compliance. The Government will also address the liability
issues for past environmental damage.
56.   To facilitate and accelerate privatization, the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH) will refinance credits extended by comercial banks to private Hungarian
citizens, or associations of private persons, for purchasing either state assets
sold by the SPA, or shares in companies being privatized.   The Government
believes that this preferential interest rate for local buyers will help to speed
up the process, and is justified in order to encourage domestic participation in
privatizations, in view of the few possibilities in the past for Hungarian
nationals to accrue financial savings. The preferential credit scheme is limited
to the support of the privatization process and will be reviewed on a periodic
basis. The subsidy element in this credit facility is a 'Hungarian" version of
the more radical free distribution schemes experimented with elsewhere and
appears justified in the context of the privatization effort.
57.   It is important that the privatization process as a whole, as well as
individual transactions, meet with a minimum of social approval. The maintenance
of an orderly, transparent and competitive process is important in this regard.
Also, the Transformation Law provides for the voluntary participation of the
employees of an SE in its privatization.   According to SPA' s Asset Policy
Guidelines, it can provide an allowance to employees to purchase shares of the
transformed SEa. The maximum amount of this allowance cannot be higher than 10
percent of the value of the company's equity, or the annual salary of the
employees. The employees of an SE under privatization will thus know in advance
about their potential participation in ownership.   The Government has also
submitted to Parliament a bill covering employee stock ownership plans; under its
provisions, employees may receive an ownership interest in their company through
collective action.
Imoleen1tation Prgoress and Action Plan
58.   Leg   Framwork.   The present legal framework for privatization is
reasonably complete. However, it is spread across several legislative acts with
numerous amendments, making interpretation difficult and subject to possible
contradictions. Also, the exercise of property rights is not clearly and fully
defined in all respects, and there is a need to develop the background
legislation and practices. In order to address these questions, a legislative



- 18 -
review commission was established under the Ministry of Justice for ensuring that
the legislation connected with SE ownership, transformation and privatization
forms a sound and coherent basis for achieving the Government's objectives. The
commission has prepared draft modifications and clarifications to the existing
transformstion and privatization laws that heve now been submitted to Parliament.
59.   A major recent reform was the approval of a new Accounting and Auditing
Law, which introduces international standards and principles and will thus be
very important for the general development of the enterprise and 4inancial
sectors in Hungary. The law became effective on January 1, 1992. The Government
will give full support to the implerentation of this law, including through an
ambitious dissemination program.
60. the Active Privatization Srack. The Government's privatization efforts
focussed initially on this track.    The first such program was launched in
September 1990, and included twenty firms of diverse size and activity,
representing a total book value of Ft. 71 billion or 3.5 percent of all SE assets
in the competitive sector. International and local advisers were selected, and
the proceeds of an existing Bank loan are financing most of the costs of the
program in order to expedite the process. Considerable progress is being made
for many of these enterprises, and negotiations with potential investors are
reasonably advanced for ten of the SEs. A few subsequent programs have also been
initiated, and negotiations have been concluded or are under way for some
individual large SEs. The presentation of a large group of SEs in the first
program was useful in getting the privatization process under way, and served
also to generate a considerable amount of interest among potential consultants
and investors. However, the actual progress so far has been too slow, primarily
as a result of the need to develop reliable information on the SEs for potential
investors. Due to this experience, future active programs will mostly focus on
smaller numbers of SEs or individual, strategically important enterprises, in
order for the privatizatiou process to proceed as smoothly as possible, and to
maximize the benefits from SPA's limited resources.  The main focus of the
privatization efforts is shifting to more decentralized mechanisms.
61.   The  Enter9rise-Initiated  Privatization  Track.    Many  decentralized
privatizations will be carried out through this track, under which the SEs will
carry out their own privatizations, with SPA oversight. So far SPA has approved
330 proposals (excluding requests for transformations prior tL privatizations),
accounting for total assets of Ft. 62 billion (US$860 million equivalent). The
approval process works reasonably smoothly and there is now sufficient oversight
to avoid some of the excesses of the early phase of management buy-outs. The
Government, however, does not want SPA oversight to become a bottleneck.
62.   The  luyer-1nitiated Track.    SPA initiated this track in early 1991.
Interested parties are able to make offers to SPA for state assets or for
enterprises which have not been otherwise offered for sale. Twenty transactions
have been completed and an additional 60-70 proposals are under preparation.
63.  The Retail Privatization Track.   SPA  is also responsible  for the
privatization of small business units (typically in the retail sector) under the
1990 Retail Privatization Law.  The program was launched in December 1990.
Initially, many units offered for sale were not sold, principally because of



- 19 -
problems concerning the security of leasehold contracts. The Government has now
taken steps to resolve this problem; as a result, the program has picked up
speed. As of end 1991, 2,648 auctions had been held and 2,120 units had been
sold for a total amount of Pt. 5.1 billion (US$65 million equivalent).    For
some units, the pro-auction minimum prices were too high to encourage bidding.
SPA will manage the minimum prices in a flexible manner in order to encourage
competition and rapid sales.
64.   The  Self -PrivatBatoTrack.    Given  the  sheer  magnitude  of  the
Government's privatization program, it is necessary to proceed rapidly through
all four privatization tracks described above.   Additionally,  in order to
alleviate the administrative burden on SPA, and to free up its resources for the
privatization of larger and more important SEs, SPA has initiated a fifth track
to use agents for smaller SEs. For SEs with less than 300 employees and assets
and annual turnover of less than Ft. 300 million (about US$4.1 million
equivalent), privatizations can be 'Implemented by approved agents on behalf of
SPA, and under SPA's ex-post review. Individual SEs can select any approved
agent to carry out the privatization.   This method has the advantage of
increasing the number of private market players. SPA has completed the selection
of the approved agents for a first group of about 350 SEs with total assets of
Ft. 20 billion. Of these, 34 SEs have been transformed, and four were fully sold
by December 1991. The agents are contractually obliged to sell the remaining
enterprises in this group by March 1993. SPA estimates that an additional 600
SEs with up to 1,000 employees and assets and annual turnover up to Ft. 1,000
million, with aggregate gross assets of Pt. 300 billion (representing more than
15 percent of SE assets in the competitive sector) will later become eligible for
self-privatization in this way.
65. The ReIa-mible Institution - The State Pronerty Agency. At its inception
In early 1990, SPA was put under the supervision of Parliament. Following the
national elections, the SPA law was amended in July 1990, and SPA was placed
under the control of the Government.   The Agency operates under a Managing
Director and a Board of Directors appointed by the Prime Minister for five years.
The present Board Chairman is a Minister without Portfolio in the Government.
The Agency has now grown to about 140 employees plus several resident advisors,
has provided considerable training to many of its staff, and has, in accordance
with the pertinent laws, formulated the processes under which the privatization
of various categories of SEs can take place. At the same time, it has carried
out a number of privatizations, prepared many other SEs for privatization, and
has also introduced schemes to decentralize significantly the privatization
process.    The Bank  is already  extending substantial  support for  SPA's
privatization activities through the financing of advisors and consultants
working on the First Privatization Program (para 62).
66.   SPA has made remarkable progress in a very short period of time and has
assumed a wide range of tasks and responsibilities. Despite these achievements,
the agency is facing heavy pressures and severe human resource constraints in
undertaking the Government's privatization program. In order to improve the
functioning of the organization, SPA has adopted a comprehensive institutional
development program, focussing on staffing, technical assistance and internal
organization, and addressing key bottlenecks and present weaknesses. As a means
of strengthening its internal planning, SPA has also adopted a detailed work



- 20 -
program for 1992, including the steps leading to the objective of having
completed by the end of that year (since SPA's establishment), privatizations
equal  to  12 percent  of assets  in the  competitive  sector.   Of  these,
privatizations for about 7 percent were completed or far advanced by the end of
1991. In the second half of 1992, SPA will adopt a detailed work program for
1993, including a target of privatizing in that year SEs with assets of 10
percent of total assets in the competitive sector. The Government has provided
SPA with the resources to strengthen staff capacity and skills, in particular to
develop further SPA's asset management functions and the decentralization of
small and medium privatizations.
67.   Trnluhe Rloese.    The following core privatization actions should be
taken prior  to  second  tranche  release:    Satisfactory  progress  in  the
implementation of SPA's institutional development program and its 1992 work
program, including towards the target of having privatized (cumulatively) SEs
with assets accounting Zor 12 percent of the competitive sector, and adoption of
i detailed SPA work program for 1993, including a target of privatizing in 1993
SEs with assets accounting for 10 percent of the competitive sector (para 66).
C. Ownershi and Inmroved Governance
Objectives and Strateq=
68.     The Government recognizes that despite the measures aimed at accelerating
privatization, a large number of enterprises vill remain state owned for a long
time, due to the sheer size of the SE sector, the uncertain demand for many SEs,
and the complex nature of many privatization transactions. Therefore, while it
intends to privatize the SE sector as fast as possible, the Government must also
strengthen the governance for those SEs that cannot be privatized immediately.
To this end, the Government has decided to supplement the privatization program
with a program that addresses directly and comprehensively the SE governance
issue, without the recentralization of decision-making or the building-up of a
large ownership bureaucracy. The overall objective of the reform of SE ownership
and governance is to introduce responsible ownership oversight into all
enterprises, those that are privatized and those remaining public. The program
includes steps for the rapid abolition of the present SHE and SAE forms through
the transformation of all enterprises Into joint stock companies; and for the
effective exercise of ownership through appropriate institutions, in such a way
as not to create new barriers for privatization or to slow down the privatization
process.
69. All SEs will be transformed into company form under the Law of Economic
Associations, thus placing them on a par with privately owned enterprises in
Hungary. It is the Government's intention that all SMEs and SAEs will be
transformed by the end of 1992, witb the possible exception of a few SEs with
significant non-commercial objectives. The legal measures to enforce this rapid
transformation have been submitted to Parliament. Within this overall timetable,
the Government is giving priority to the following types of SEs, because of their
importance in the economy or in the privatization process: SEs in SPA's first and
second privatization programs, as well as in the self privatization program, and
SNs in the vineyard, construction and trucking sectors, the enterprises within



- 21 -
the former oil and gas trust and the power trust, the SEs now earmarked for
longer-term state ownership (para 73), and SEs requesting early transformation.
70.   The ole of SPA. A large majority of the transformed companies will be the
responsibility of SPA, which will exercise fully the ownership rights of the
state, with the primary objective of facilitating as much as possible their early
privatization on reasonable terms. For the individual SEa, SPA will exercise its
ownership primarily through the company boards, and through the mechanism of
contracting out management to private contractors (this scheme is already under
advanced preparation). The establishment of the boards will provide the SEs with
an organ clearly responsible for strategic decisions and management oversight,
and should also provide outside expertise to help guide management, with
particular focus on maintenance and growth of the capital in the SEs. The boards
will also help SPA to decentralize parts of its control function over
privatization transactions. In addition to the company boards, SPA will utilize
other ownership mechanisms, including the selective establishment of holding
companies, especially in cases where a series of companies might be facing
similar problems and their early privatization is not possible. In exceptional
cases, such as when enterprises are in crisis, SPA will be prepared to act more
directly.  SPA will also continue to be responsible for the state's management
of portfolio (minority) holdings in privatized SEs.   This will follow the
guidelines already established in SPA's Asset Policy Guidelines, which emphasize
the commercial, profit-oriented basis and expected increased decentralization of
portfolio management.
71.   The board function is largely underdeveloped in Hungary.  Therefore, in
order to strengthen its ownership influence and also to develop the general
ownership function in the country, SPA will develop an SE monitoring system,
which will specify minimum information requirements from each company to its
board of directors (while under state majority ownership), and the selective
reporting by the company boards to a small unit within SPA. To strengthen the
functioning of company boards, SPA will also take steps to: (i) establish
criteria for the selection of board members; (il) develop a remuneration policy
that will provide appropriate incentives for board members; (iii) develop a
roster of potential directors and a public registry of directors; (iv) provide
training for board members; and (v) review and seek to improve as necessary the
treatment of the board function in the Law of Economic Associations.
72.   Progerty Transfers.   The Government is reviewing the possibility of
transferring portfolio shareholdings in SEs under SPA ownership to the Social
Security Administration as part of its reform of the social security system. The
final decision will be taken based on the funding requirements for this system.
However, the Governmert recognizes that the administration of transferred assets
would require the early establishment of a competent social security portfolio
administration authority that would operate under carefully prepared policies and
criteria, including the following: (a) The amount of assets to be transferred
each year will be determined, inter alia, in light of SPA's privatization
program. (b) The Social Security Portfolio Administration will hold a portfolio
of minority investment.s (typically about 10 percent of the voting stock), with
the objective of maximizing long-term returns from capital appreciation and also
dividends. It will in its operations take into account the need not to disrupt
the markets through large transactions, in particular early attempts to dispose



- 22 -
of large positions of stock. (c) Normally, these assets will be administered as
investments and without attempting significant ownership influence. (d) The
portfolio administration will be staffed with a sufficient number of competent
professionals, and will establish adequate systems for management and control of
assets, under proper auditing.   The Government will consult with the Bank
concerning the implications for SPA's privatization program, the establishment
of portfolio administration capacity, and the related policies and criteria.
73.   Longer-Term Public OwnershiR.  There is a clearly defined minority of
companies for which longer-term state ownership (including minority ownership)
will be maintained. This group consists of 22 enterprises in the industry and
infrastructure sectors, selected activities of 46 enterprises in the agriculture
sector, 16 enterprises engaged in the publication of books for school children,
4 enterprises engaged in defense-related trade, and some 100 others that are
engaged in providing public services and other non-commercial activities.
Together, these account for about 20 percent of total SE assets. Full public
ownership will also be maintained in the Railways, Airport and Postal Services
enterprises and in some 30 others largely under the Ministries of Culture and
Education, Defense, Justice and Social Welfare. 51 percent ownership will be
maintained in enterprises in petroleum, power, aluminium, telecommunications,
airlines, defense industries and related trading companies and some 90 cultural
and public services enterprises. 25 percent ownership will be maintained in some
pharmaceutical and traditional porcelain enterprises and some 30 others in
infrastructure and agriculture. These enterprises constitute a kind of "negative
list,  with all other SEs open to full privatization including by foreign
investors.    The Government's announcement of this list will therefore help
remove present ambiguities in the minds of some foreign investors. This negative
list should be understood not as an ideological barrier to privatization, but as
an act of pragmatic realism and a recognition that effective governance must be
sought for all enterprises. The list is not cast in stone, however. It will be
updated on an annual basis in line with the general opening of Hungary's economy,
and the Government is also prepared to consider any attractive offers for thw
enterprises on this list. All these SEs are expected to operate on mostly
commercial terms, will be able to enter into joint ventures and the selling of
assets, and private investment (including foreign) will be welcomed in the
sectors covered by these enterprises, including in particular petroleum, power,
chemicals and telecommunications.   In view of importance of -banks in the
transformation process, the Government is preparing for the privatization of the
four major state-owned commercial banks. A privatization policy for these banks
is under discussion and will be formulated by end 1992.
74.   Responsibility within the Government for its long-term ownership interests
will be with a designated Minister without Portfolio, who will exercise the
ownership rights and asset management responsibility through a new State Asset
Management Company (SANC). The SAMC will be a 100 percent Government-owned joint
stock company with a small professional staff reporting to the Minister through
a Managing Director and a Board. SAHC will exercise its ownership over the
state-owned companies primarily through a number of diverse intermediaries
(including holding companies) that will be established and begin operations
during 1992, with a reasonable control span permitting efficient resource use.
Appropriate objectives and policy statements will be established for each
intermediary, as well as criteria for the selection of board members and a



- 23 .
monitoring system.   The Government will provide adequate resources for the
operation of SAMC in a timely manner and as required for the establishment and
operation of the intermediaries. The draft law covering the establishment,
operation, powers and responsibilities of SAMC has been approved by the
Government and will be submitted to Parliament. An advantage of establishing the
SA4C is to prevent the re-emergence of the role of sectoral ministries with
bureaucratic interests that have in the past tended to perpetuate subsidies and
failed to encourage enterprise efficiency. The Minister responsible for the SAN4C
will report to the Cabinet. It can be hoped that in the increasingly mixed
economic setting of Hungary in the mid-1990s, the proposed arrangement will lead
to a reasonably effective form of public ownership. The establishment of SAMC
will also be sensitive to preserving the privatization forms of SPA by assuming
responsibility of the long-term ownership interests of the state. It is hoped
that this arrangement will prove more effective than the traditional sector
ministries or sectoral holding companies model that has consistently failed in
so many countries.
75.   Other State Progerties and Cooperatives.   The Government's  SE reform
program bas been prepared as part of an overall new ownership policy for state
properties and cooperatives. Under this policy, all property belonging to state
budgetary entities, including assets used either for administrative purposes or
for general public use (such as streets and national parks), will be administered
by the Government's treasury asset management entity that reports to the Minister
of Finance. This entity will develop policies for the various types of assets,
such as continuing their administration by central budget entities, leasir.g the
assets for a fee, allowing the continual free use, and possibly selling-off. The
enterprises under local government control account for only a small portion of
the competitive sector and are primarily providing local services of various
kinds. Many of these local enterprises are organized as budgetary entities;
their future roles are related to the resolution of various complicated issues
concerning local government financing and land and property ownership issues.
Enterprises that we-e established by the former local councils and that are
organized in the present state enterprise forms will be included in the
transformation process. Privatization issues concerning these enterprises are
the responsibility of SPA.
76.   Parliament enacted in January 1992 a Law on Cooperatives and a Law on the
Transformation of Existing Cooperatives. These laws define the framework for the
establishment of new cooperative property and clarify the procedures for
determining the ownership rights of the members of existing cooperatives. The
Government will pursue a land policy reform under which most of the cultivated
land will become the property of private individuals. A law clarifying the
ownership of non-agricultural real estate, with the transfer to local governments
of most state-owned flats and considerable amounts of non-residential real
estate, is already in force.  Restrictions on real estate acquisitions by
foreigners will be eased and a much simpler approval system will be introduced.
Inplementation Progress and Action Plan
77.    The transformation of all SEs to company form is a bold and crucial step,
but its eventual success will be determined by the effectiveness in implementing
the underlying changes in the relationship between owner(s) and SE managements,



- 24 -
the underlying changes in the relationship between owner(s) and SE managements,
and in ensuring that the company boards become capable of exercising strategic
responsibilities and control over management.   The implementation of the
ownership reform will necessarily take considerable time, since it represents a
significant change from past and present practices in the SE sector and will
require substantial human resource development at the government and enterprise
levels. SE governance will therefore necessarily be improved only gradually.
To this end, VA has prepared an initial ownership work program that covers a
period of about six months, and that will lay the basis for a subsequent, more
ambitious program. The initial work program includes: (i) specific steps to
implement the contracting-out mechanism (including the preparation of legal
documentation, establishment of criteria for evaluating contractors and steps to
establish a proper monitoring mechanism of ownership contractors); (ii) steps to
develop systematic policies and criteria for the exercise of ownership (including
for the use of company boards and for the establishment of holding companies);
and (iii) the steps to prepare a subsequent (one year) comprehensive
implementation program that will be initiated at the latest by mid-1992 and will
be fully implemented by June 1993. This latter program will cover all important
aspects of the implementation of the reform, including detailed criteria and
timing for items such as ownership function development (monitoring mechanism,
board member selection and training, etc.); selective establishment of holding
companies under SPA;   encouragement of ownership contractors; and selective
direct exercise of ownership by SPA.
78.   The ability of SPA and SANC to carry out their functions is of key
importance for the success of the ownership reform. To this end, each of the
institutions will adopt and implement an ownership institutional development
program (for SPA separate from its overall privatization development program),
addressing such issues as the internal status of the ownership administration,
staffing, resource requirements and availability, as well as internal and
external reporting requirements.
7>.   The decision to create SANC is very recent; accordingly, the establishment
of this entity will take some time. Preparations are under way to make it
operational as quickly as possible, in line with the provisions of the draft law
covering its establishment and with an initial work program and sufficient
resources. The draft law is currently expected to be adopted by mid-1992 and
requires the establishment of SAMC and the start-up of its operations within
three months thereafter.   The responsibility for timely preparation of the
necessary actions and elaboration of the organization and polices of SAMC has
been entrusted to a committee headed by the Kinister of Finance and including the
Minister of Justice and the Minister without Portfolio responsible for ownership
policy and privatization. Upon its establishment, SAMC will finalize its work
program, including a timetable for the establishment of intermediaries, before
December 1992.   Both SAMC and SPA will be provided quickly with qualified
management and sufficient staft and other resources to carry out their functions
in accordance with the timetable for the transformation of SEs, and will operate
under clear statements of objectives and work programs. They will also have
access to extensive domestic and foreign consulting services to carry out their
tasks.   The Government will also encourage and facilitate the mobilization of
external funds for this purpose.



- 25 -
80. It will be important for both SPA and SAMC to utilize actively the boards
of the transformed enterprises as the principal tools of corporate governance and
management oversight. Initially, the Government will draw on readily available
human resources in this regard, e.g., by reappointing members of existing
supervisory committees and by drawing on key managers in the enterprises
themselves, normally supplemented by at least one external member who would
typically be appointed board chairman. Thereater, it intends for the ownership
organizations to move quickly to expand the number of external directors on most
company boards, with the goal of establishing a majority of external directors
on most boards. These measures will build in part on initial efforts already
undertaken by the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) in this regard,
particularly concerning the identification of board members and the monitoring
of their activities.
81. Tranche R.lease. The following core ownership reform actions should be
taken prior to tranche release:   Transformation of at least 400 SEs with total
assets of Ft. 500 billion (para 69); satisfactory implementation of SPA' s initial
work program for the ownership reform and adopcion of a detailed SPA ownership
implementation program (para 77); adoption and satisfactory progress in
implementation of SPA' s comprehensive ownership institutional development program
(pare 78); and establishment and initial operation of SAMC with a satisfactory
work program (para 79).
D. ZU±E = i_ArK1&Zt&cur
Obiectives and Anproach
82.      In addition to the introduction of effective ownership, numerous SEs in
Hungary require significant restructuring in order to meet the challenges of the
new market conditions. Typically, this will include measures affecting sales,
marketing, product spectrums and production profiles,   cost reductions, and
quality enhancements. In general, while large new physical investments will not
be required at the early stages of this process, many SEs will continue to suffer
from financial problems. The Government should not bail out enterprises as in
the past or engage itself in restructuring, unless absolutely unavoidable.
Rather, given its commitment to the growing role of market mechanisms, the
responsibility for restructuring will lie with the enterprise managements
themselves (for the transformed companies under the direction of their boards of
directors).    In line with this approach,  the overall objective of the
Government's restructuring policy is to promote, encourage and support SEs in
initiating and carrying out the effective restructuring of their operations in
order for them to become economically viable and able to grow, whether under
private or government ownership.
83.    The Government restructuring policy also stipulates that the new ownership
organizations, working through the company boards, will actively encourage the
SEs to restructure systematically their operations, in particular through the
mechanism of annual performance targets that would be agreed upon between the
relevant ownership organiza'ion and the SE boards. Financial restructurings
(such as debt to equity conversions) may be undertaken as part of a comprehensive
program for an enterprise, where required to ensure its longer term viability or



- 26 -
to make it ready for privatization, but vill not include the infusion of new
capital from government sources. Enterprises will be required to mobilize the
needed capital directly from financial institutions or the capital markets on
commercial terms.
Bestrut turing Ins titutions
84.   An enterprise-by-enterprise program development exercise has been carried
out by MIT, with the objective of segmenting the SEs according to privatization
prospects and restructuring requirements.  This exercise has been useful in
focussing the policy discussions on key issues, in utilizing information
available within various parts of the Ministry, and in identifying candidates for
early privatization. MIT's work program for 1991 built in part on the results
of the segmentation exercise, in particular through a major study of loss-making
SEs. This study examined about 300 SEs, with special focus on about 100 larger
enterprises, with a view to developing a better understanding of the reasons for
these losses together with possible recommendations for policy and regulatory
changes where appropriate, as well cs recommendations at the sector and
enterprise levels that will be communicated to the individual enterprises, inter
alia, through NIT's representatives on the enterprise councils, as long as SMEs
remain in that form. A longer term monitoring of loss-making transformed SEs
will also be considered in this regard in consultation with SPA's ownership
administration. MIT's 1992 work program builds further on the results of the
program development exercise and the above-mentioned study.
85.   Hungarian policy makers would like to see restructurings undertaken through
the interactions between enterprises and the financial sector; however, the
latter is still not fully developed and there is a lack of institutions that can
undertake engagements in enterprises on commercial terms. The Government will
therefore encourage the development of such institutions. As a first step, it
is promoting the establishment of a restructuring and privatization investment
corporation (RPIC), which, on a profit basis, will take on ownership of selected
SEs in difficulties, turn these around through restructuring, and then dispose
of the shares at a profit.  The Government wants to attract foreign capital
(preferably in a majority position) and professional management for this entity,
as a precondition for its establishment. Under this scheme, the Government would
put in equity in the form of shares in SEs, plus some liquid resources expected
to be mobilized from external sources (such as the EC PHARE program) on a grant
basis; no resources will be provided from the budget. Preparations for this
entity are now under way, with the hope of establishing it during 1992.
Consultants financed under an existing Bank loan have developed a detailed
business plan for the RPIC. The EBRD has helped supervise the consultants and
has expressed an interest in investing in the RPIC. At present, MIT and EBRD are
searching systematically for a qualified lead investor, who will take primary
responsibility for mobilizing additional resources.   On the basis of its
experience with this entity, the Government will subsequently consider promoting
similar institutions.
86.  Finally,  with  bilateral  international  support  the  Government has
established an independent, non-profit foundation, the Hungarian Development
Foundation (OHUDEFO), which will provide analytical support for the
restructuring of SEs and private enterprises, primarily through a service of low



- 27 -
cost, focussed enterprise-specific strategic reviews (nquick-scansn) that wili
provide impetus and guidelines for the restructuring processes within the
individual enterprises.  Initially, this service will be offered to the SEs
identified for restructuring under MIT's segmentation exercise (para 84). This
approach is proising for promoting enterprise restructurings, in that it will
provide, at a modest cost, assietance focussed on the strategic requirements for
the individual Sgs. HUDEFO was established in 1991 and will complete 50 quick-
scans during 1992, of which 15 by mid-year. It will in this respect draw on the
experience from the six demonstration restructurings that have been initiated by
the Bank in the context of the preparations of the ERL.  (For these cases,
existing Bank credit lines are being used to finance consultants under the first
phase; for the second phase, the technical assistance will be provided on a grant
basis by the EC PHARE program.) Depending on demand, the quick-scan services
will also be offered in the subsequent years.   The Government will pursue
actively the expansion of the activities under HUDEFO, and will take steps to
mobilise substantial external resources for follow-up technical assistance. In
due course, it will also try and develop further its activities as a focal point
for demand-oriented restructuring services.
EnteAro,se Licuidatione
87.     The restructuring of enterprises will inevitably involve the liquidation
of unproductive capacity, reorganization of assets, reductions in employment and
changes in management. Well-functioning bankruptcy and liquidation procedures
are therefore important restructuring mechanisms. The effectiveness of these
procedures in Hungary has lagged behind other reforms, but has begun to improve
with an increasing trend in the number of liquidations. Thus, the number of
filings at the Metropolitan Court grew from 604 between 1986 and 1989 to 630 in
1990, and 1,268 in 1992. The number of completed liquidations increased from 246
in 1986-1989 to 206 in 1990 and 480 in 1991.
88.   The Government is taking steps to improve further the effectiveness of the
bankruptcy system. An improved Bankruptcy and Liquidations Law was approved by
Parliament last year and became effective in January 1992. This law abolished
the legal institution of refloatation by the state, established specific time
limits for the different stages of the bankruptcy and liquidation procedures, and
introduced a simplified procedure where assets are insufficient to cover
liquidation costs. The Government has also established objective criteria for
eligibility of liquidators, with the purpose of increasing their number. Also,
beginning in 1991, bankruptcy proceedings are being initiated against any
enterprise in arrears to the social security system and the tax authorities for
more than three months, and the number of courts competent to deal with
bankruptcy proceedings  has been  increased.    Finally,  the new  ownership
organizations will, as part of their mandate, be required to pay special
attentlon to enterprises that are either having payment difficulties or are
making losses, with a view to encourage restructurings or to initiate closure of
activities.   Financial discipline should increase significantly also from the
recent approval of the new Accounting and Auditing Law and of a much improved
Banking Law, which together will force creditors, in particular banks, to
recognize their loan arrears' problems and thus put pressure on them to step up
loan-collectlon efforts significantly. Up to now, this pressure had been largely
missing.



- 28 -
89.   These measures will help to speed up further the bankruptcy and liquidation
processes in Hungary and to establish the mechanisms as a credible threat against
loss-making enterprises. The Government will monitor and review closely the
effectiveness of these processes. In particular, statistics will be compiled
regularly on the nature, size and origin of entities that enter bankruptcy or
liquidation and number of resolutions. The Government has agreed with the Bank
on a schedule for the monitoring of the aggregate figures for bankruptcy and
liquidation cases will inform the Bank on progress in this area on a half -yearly
basis, will review with the Bank the trends, including impact on the banking
system, and will consider corrective actions as necessary.
90. Uagcthe ReiQase. The following key targets should be met prior to tranche
release: The restructuring foundation (HUDEFO) should be in operation with a
satisfactory work program through 1993 and with 15 quick-scan restructuring
diagnoses completed (para 86) and thero shall be a careful joint review of the
liquidation and bankruptcy process (para 89).
S. SogiAl Safety Net
91.  The intensification of structural reforms will in the short term adversely
affect the living conditions of some segments of the population. lndustrial
restructuring is projected to result in a substantial increase in unemployment,
from less than 2 percent of the labor force at the end of 1990 to about 7 percent
at present, and it may increase further to as much as 10 percent by the end of
1992. Unemployment among women, who constitute a large part of the labor force,
may rise even faster. The Government recognizes that the best way to provide for
a sustained improvement in living standards in the medium-term is through
economic growth, led by a dynamic private sector, in a climate of low inflation.
However, an adequate social safety net is necessary to protect the poor and
ameliorate the short-term costs of structural reforms. Several measures have
already been taken in this respect, including a retraining component under the
Human Resources project. A more comprehensive reform of the social programs will
be implemented from the beginning of 1992 (as agreed under SAL 2).
92.   Under the Government's economic reform program, the growth of new private
ventures that provide employment opportunities is being encouraged, and flexible
market-oriented labor retraining schemes are being introduced. Moreover, the
network of employment exchanges are being strengthened to facilitate labor
mobility and absorption.   For those unable to find employment, unemployment
insurance benefits are available for a maximum of two years. Family assistance
benefits will be better targeted to poorer families, and programs of social
assistance and social services administered by local governments will ensure a
minimum level of social assistance benefits for those in greatest need.
F. Program Review
93. The Government's program for the reform of the enterprise sector is both
ambitious and complex, and will be implemented by a number of ministries,
agencies and corporate entities. In particular, the privatization component
depends on actions at the level of the SEs themselves, as well as to a very large



- 29 -
extent on the actions and attitudes of agents and the potential Investors.
Economic and political developments may also affect the progress of the program.
The success of the ownership reform program will depend on the adequacy of
preparation and effectiveness of implementation. The Bank will supervise program
LmplementatLon actively and on a contlnuous basis; however, ln addltlon, a
special in-depth, mLd-term review has been agreed between the Government and the
Bank.  Its purpose will be to ensure that a systematLc examination of all
important apcts will take pLace prior to tranche release.   The terms of
refetence and institutional mechanisma Vir this review have been agreed and
involve a regular schedule of data gathering on all important aspects of the
reform program, detailed case studies by outslde consultants of selected
prlvatLzation cease, and a thorough revLew by the Bank and the Government Jointly
of the status and progress of the reforms. The revLew will be completed before
tranhe rolease. on this basis, the Government will have examined with the Bank
all important aspects of the reform program, identified any constraints to its
effective  mplementation and taken addtional measures as needed.
A.   loa= Peature   n  Iueenai
94.  Toan Aiatm  and aBorrwer.  Hungary has made significant progress ln
adjustLng to severe external shocks and the transLtion to a market economy with
a dynamic private sector. This iS reflected in the better-than-expected balance-
of-payments performance in 1991, when the current account showed a small surplus,
against earlier estimates of a deficit in excess of US$1 billion, largely as a
result of the contraction of domestic economic activity, and an increase in
reserves of nearly US$2 billion due to a large extent to foreign direct
investment * The medium- trm prospects are also oncouraging (paras 17-21).
However, there are signficant economic and politlcal risks (paras 22-23) which
call for a cautious external financing strategy and a further build up of
reserves. The proposed loan is an integral part of this strategy. Based on
plausible asumptions of Hungary's external financing requirements including
build-up of reserves and external fLnancing from other sources (Table 3), a Bank
loan of US$200 million would be needed to close the likely remaining gap and lay
the foundation for restoration of growth unencumbered by severe foreign exchange
and debt corAstraits, whlle also provldlng needed support to meet additlonal
budgetary pressures arising from the implementation of the enterprise reform
program. With this loan, Bank dlsbursements in CY92 would be around US$450
million (US$330 million net). The loan would be made to the NBH and would be
guaranteed by the Republic of Hungary.  The proceeds of the loan would be
admlnlstered and dlsbursed by NBH.



- 30 -
TableJ:  Fi_nIn1 Pla   1
(US$ millions)
Total Financing Needs a/                            3,756          4,017
Source  of Finncin
Direct Foreign Investment                     1,250          1,350
Disbursements, MLT
IMF                                         450             450
IBRD                                        454             401
ERL                                        (100)          (100)
Other                                      (354)          (301)
Other Official                              220             199
Commercial                                1,381           1,616
a/ Including International reserve accumulation.
Sou=s: Table 2.
95.   TJIlhthL.  The proposed loan would be utilized to finance the foreign
exchange cost of general imports, except those goods financed from other sources
and a specific list of excluded goods such as military and para-military items,
luxury goods, nuclear reactors and parts, and uranium.
96.   PnLMX2s=. Procurement under the loan would follow arrangements used
satisfactorily under earlier adjustment loans, with simplified ICB procedures for
large value contracts (exceeding US$5 million) of the public and private sectors.
As the Bank has approved standard bidding documents to be used in Hungary, there
would be no further reviews by Bank staff of particular bidding documents or
procurement decisions prior to contract awards, to avoid delaying transactions.
97.   DighWagap=. The loan would be disbursed in two equal trancaes of US$100
million each.  The first tranche of US$100 million would be available upon
effectiveness, expected in Spring 1992, and the second tranche of US$100 million
would be released upon fulfillment of the conditions indicated in para 101 below,
expected around the end of 1992.
98.   Disbursements, administered by the National Bank of Hungary, would be made
against 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports. Withdrawal
applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures under contracts
valued below US$5.0 million equivalent (ICB limit), which would be made on the
basis of certified statements of expenditure. Supporting documentation in these
cases would be retained by the NBH for at least one year after receipt by the
Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made,
and would be made available for review by the auditors and by Bank staff upon
request. The minimum amount for withdrawal applications would be US$1.0 million.
To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established at NBH; the
initial deposit would be US$10 million. Retroactive financing is proposed of up



- 31 -
to US$40 million (20 percent of the loan amount) for expenditures incurred since
December 15, 1991 (four months before estimated signature of the Loan Agreement).
This retroactive financing would help speed up disbursements and is justified by
the up-front actions taken by the Government on key elements of the program. The
loan closing date would be June 30, 1993.
99.   Accounts and Audits. NBH would maintain records of all transactions under
the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. All accounts (including
the special account) would be audited w'.thin six months of the end of t1_.e fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would include
a separato opinion on claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of SOEs and would
state whether the claims were made in accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement.
100.  Monitoring &aU4 Inbm.ortn gn.  The NBH and the Ministry of Finance would
be responsible for monitoring implementation of the reform program. The Bank
would oversee the impleaentation of the reform program in general, and would
monitor the specific actions agreed upon under the program through semi-annual
reviews. In addition, there would be an in-depth, mid-term program review prior
to tranche release (para 93).   For monitoring, appropriate indicators and
periodic reporting to the Bank have been agreed. The impact of reforms on the
economy would also be monitored, primarily in the context of the supervision of
SAL 2.
B.    Conditions for Board Presentation and Second Tranche Release
101. The status of program preparation and proposed tranche release conditions
are shown in Table 4.  In addition to the core conditions listed in the table,
tranche release would also be cond.tional on satisfactory macro performance
towards agreed indicators and targets under SAL 2 (para 24). There would be no
special conditions of effectiveness.
C.   Collaboration with Other Agencies
102.  The Bank and the I  have maintained close cooperation during preparation
of SAL 2, which set the macroeconomic stage for the proposed loan. In parallel
with the preparation of SAL 2, the IMF negotiated an EA with the Hungarian
Government. In preparation of the EA and SAL 2, the Government, with the joint
support of IHF and Bank staff, formulated a medium-term reform program,
aummarized in the ONemorandum," which was distributed to the Board on January 7,
1991. Discussions under the EA for 1992 have been concluded satisfactorily. The
3IH provided cofinancing of US$200 million linked with SAL 1, and of US$150
million for SAL 2. Close contact is maintained with the £&, which provided
Hungary with a US$1 billion bridge loan to be used in 1990-92 and will be
cofinancing, through PHARR, several technical assistance activities carried out
in the context of this loan (both PHARE) and the Bank are providing substantial



- 32 -
:  SO ef Phtm Pitim T   San Col.d
bum n  Mm                 _Ii             bv of 1   m     TO h  Mby     1992 AIM}m Pro r ito Tc, Naleo
_S mm       ad vfdP n* fispA                  Aopthn   of  a  matla&toriy  SPA               S        ti aaStfPAy
Prspain*sa  at rnuM.~  paI.shrtlau  prqmad awea Pca    dfoca 1                                            p_ a992d
UIPLinh                                                                                       1992wait      p  8m.Ili  towaidu tho
nges of havivg prized curnds
au        of .1l  FAvmIl m lisbua                        a t a satwvo  roview               SeE  withh _no  acot   for 12 peaca
eooa                                           of oapotl     ads   (Po  66)
Ad        by  If Ptohat         N
P      _Va*a1oa IAW                            SuIoa to C        l       atM t dan l         A optieo      d aided  SPA ptiv     u
P    dUrn lw                                  wvsk po r  t1993 includlng  a Uta
AMoptis by Puilemn    efAesm*g ad                                                             of pri   ain 1  i9m      s h _et
AMs     Law                                                                                           a     trlO puma  of tcapet
tr es SPA atddlebmact (pa  66)
onso EA                           ~~~~ownadd Ed                                   Owinak ad
Ba_mura    f  ih-ad                              m         aft aetdsfao_y    al ownuut b      Sulaty  Iump! "'wian    f  SPA's
om o                     p      t             wak p_ogmun for SPA ad proviat dnta  oweuubip                          ro1m      ad
181000                                        suffihlast initial mausrmo ftrSPA to eany meptia  of a dL.;4    4 owne_d
e ibto ownaub   rupame_mi                                    progran         w  77). and
d__~~~~~~~~~~~~swi                                                           md  N* m       pM      im
I        o       gm  pa v    *ad                             emlomtdoo a  coreeoosiv   SPA
propurn (por 78)
T             snoe unne 1991 dfas eIN
400 SE. with toel mom ofFPL 500 bian
B".tmut df SAMC. wil IhaM  be
in operato  wilk a ;Alft    illel work
progra- (pam 79)
Pies. ''dowlopia   (lo'uwninmS ) of            Poqiutna .1fw MT 192woa progmm                  U=siudb   nomnW                      
spa comopla  by )IF1. 4dmpmal of                                                             antlafotaay wark progra  thruh 1993.
amT' a,I   I,oapa hbs rnaozgpoliy fo           Apemantt an Gm  mnnorngu   of gm.             ad abuh  ha' comopletd  ha lhnt IS
199                                           aggogob  fipur  far hankrue     and            ustaurting digngas    (pma 56
-~~~~~~~~" -
sd mand subahd   onwaylato              RE=*mm     df aw  Buabqcy  and                 joint roview  of hr  liquidaton  ad
owofF'aeawprIu  au"dmtuahg pup for             Lhqudidaa  Law                                bmakrupso  prome (pm- 89)
1991
Conyirlion~~~~ at0 om w    rleoy  in_ i 6
propdutin_ of B1lsPIC  w      ef      In
C ef e_of_NW
BEtabhuhment  of  IIDEPO    and
z_ eg w   e ftblead fiLammRng
ane_    ez  anD  ef    _    x            C    _-w       of    _d    fellnnd    by
ruvinar uranimo                                       n  bowm  hr Oovenum   and
do lk an dfeof _                 e
r_view   ad  hr  nadption   by  tea
Govammoa  of Aubqumn   astow  to
pdlamar   to   pugam     adeqael
uflectg hr roat! of thi COWlAiOa.
(PaM 93)



- 33 -
financing for SPA technical assistance).  The Q_2  countries authorized credit
of up to US$500 million in 1991, and the MT has provided cofinancing for the
Second Telecommunications Project, approved by the Board in September 1990, and
has expressed interest in cofinancing arrangements with other Bank projects. In
addition, cooperation has started with the EBD  which also has expressed
interest in some joint financing of projects and may provide equity financing for
RPIC (para 87). The multiplicity of agencies involved in assisting Hungary does
necessitate a special effort to coordinate and cooperate to maximize the return
on the financial and technical resources deployed.
D.    Bank Exmosure and Creditworthiness
103. At the end of 1991, the Bank's share of Hungary's medium- and long-term
(MLT) public and publicly-guaranteed debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to
8.8 percent. Debt service payments on Bank debt amounted to 6.6 percent of the
country's NLT debt service. Net disbursements and net transfers from the Bank
are expected to remain positive until 1997 and 1993, respectively.   The Bank's
share of MLT debt is expected to increase to 13.9 percent by 1995, and remain at
that level until 2000. The share of MLT debt service to the Bank will increase
to 9.9 percent in 1995, then to 12.0 percent in 2000. These indicators of Bank
exposure remain well within the Bank's guidelines. Hungary's overall balance-of-
payment, creditworthiness and foreign debt indicators are showing a strongly
improving trend (para 19), although the debt-service remains a heavy burden on
the Hungarian economy. Hungary's perfect debt servicing record, maintained with
the assistance of the Bretton Woods Institutions through difficult times, has
been a decisive factor in attracting foreign capital, preserving market access,
and laying the basis for vigorous growth in the second half of the 1990s.
E.    SummarM of Bank Gr2o  Operation.
104. Hungary received its first loan in June 1983. It joined IDA and IFC in
April 1985 and MIGA in 1988, and participated in the IDA VIII replenishment.
As of December 31, 1991, the Bank had provided 33 loans, for a total of about
US$3.1 billion, for 26 operations, including six B-loans (totalling about US$136
million and which helped mobilize a total of nearly US$1.2 billion) and one ECO
operation for about US$200 million. IFC's gross commitments as of that time
amounted to about US$154 million for 15 operations. Of the total World Bank
commitments, 35 percent was in the industrial sector, 18 percent in the transport
and telecommunications sectors, 17 percent in the agricultural sector, 9 percent
in the energy section, and 7 percent for human resource development; the
remainder (14 percent) was for general balance-of-payments support. Project
implementation has, in general, been satisfactory, although there were serious
delays in disbursements in 1990 as a result of the depressed domestic economic
situation and high nominal interest rates.   Bank staff and the Hungarian
authorities have made a joint effort to improvement disbursement performance.
The total disbursement ratio (total disbursements in a fiscal year divided by the
undisbursed balance at the end of the previous year) for FY91 was about 40
percent, a sharp improvement over 19 percent in FY90. This ratio is further
improving and is likely to reach 45 percent by the end of FY92.



e 34 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
105. I mm satisfied that this loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
operation.
President
Lewis T. Preston
March 13, 1992
Washington, D.C.



* n   re W-   5-
Smvt rAg 
HUMARESOURCE
Ti,g4IbsuJv..t    a%Wk                                              10'M       IO9B 7     M!        422~ AU     8'
s     ^_ 1989)                                            f465        67.0       77 .0                  8         68
*owdppt                              0. W9,5909 g5703
Rod                                     -~~~~~~~~~L 
ogmvowame  ~        ~        inLI*0.3                    06         ..          .          .          .
1A        2.4                   32.9                  0.7
U*wm1gowtbhdiffmi1                       di!famm            2.2        3A         1.7        1.5        3.1        08
Prcjsasdpapulstiw200O                                                          10t       714A01     510,8    83177
pevel_~~~~~~~~~~e %15;4                                     27 _       2.3.
R,       u                                                  - _       33         28         ..          -
Tosulf.n2lityuta         permikc.pa          38.86     1384        11.8                   25.       1397
Q,94~~~~J.4~~~I~~w~~ua(15.49)ud@2J                                            18         7.
Cnzd. death ms :rlboa. )epo                               1706      7132.      743        66.0       6.9        7.9
-s-m                                                      SLtbmm  S138  5L4     5.264    197229    159.186    368,427
3',-               - <    .7            -          _       _
- 99      42.0       44.        26S .      3Q         37.
AcussWufew                               *OX .               -          ..%      49.4       38.-      37 47S5
Area               _b99.h               n         n          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~93  14,.7 1664 33
hadl                                a{    d                      711                   3.6 3       129       A
4                                   P                                              U=s2=   14  1oQ  63 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                             0i.t o    0.         -O        1 - t"o
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _fKi                                                 ".O-                  7.
250~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
Fhl-gs  ~~~~~~~~mktaSmorblw                                          Pdarschod_onm
2 
C* N_tt _    _
bw____~~~~~~'



- 36 -           ~Soda! Iadklmti OtDev.Iopmeut 1,90
-36-
H_^"
Uw9~~                                 SmS IunII4c' 'v.9 
INCOMEANDPOVEKrY
ONPpmrc_$w~s1989)                         USS              _          _-8u   2         2670       3.810     1l.40
aoIwwu <@l                            %um               -s                  12          -       ;            - 
TOW bl4051iZ1M5                                                    34                    -          -         -
Sh. tsobuaa205~mubIda1                    *               9         1.0       11         -          _.        _
AbsduspvmWiyimsuib                   USSP¶pna                                   . 
Poiwua tavuuM            _) _o                                                  _                               _
ExmE~mn
Fj           $                         SofGDP              -    161                        -                    -
Carnal lm                           disa.awic txsom      6          191      6d0      s3.13      34,7      70401
197941.40                      4      10 66311   llS.      1-         101.
d _   inGDf tdGlOP          17.9      13.9      165        13m        2.1
S.ham     Fb MpiapUp                                    S~gjg.1;f  348       32        23
SpdP~~~~ 9Z                     I0  1-9    laf,,                    s
fCgGDP             -        45          _          _         .          -
M"noabwf                                                  _          S         _ o                  _ 9
FjsUt :OsU                             %aE   D             a        5.9         _-                   -         -
.oGDP              -        2.0         _
k8g toilde  m      1.82S1    2391A4    3,1:7    1.4.6        1.7       44.4
w ~~~~~* o£thasusi                     I S            a                    *         a
q& ofacpa              4a          a                      
Taptt*mUSUFlkSS                        %IGD                -        4.5         a          - -
101                   7         21;     3I 
S  "            _          _       1e9 32.9               .         _
ailiktor O                     of                _          ,.        _       3%atop                 _
g~~~~~~~~~~~~a-    1 _38.1__ 
~~~~~~~~9~                                       af        10                   13                   P 238
IbdIUIe8 e                               -b                        5f      4              _          d -        a
BP-P *ib t   bd                                                            too 1 
=   .           *duswk)   b                        _    _     ,.
Om1R.Iyrd=1bo=pyumOdwS)                %doIE               aa                           32.0         a 
Zimmihe                      ~~~~~~~%dGD)P       ..       33          .            
%of S00146 V   100Io0      990       7098.1               99A        02
Sgeain6aaytinal             U                                 -In-n~~lo(o  ja
p< pprmPdw          1 23                                       23         I8
_a                    43                    -          a       233
Wswapywdumlaima            ~~~pwtOa.696P*      178.      233.      249.8       "I.       83.       315.



Table 1: Key RacrocKanuiic Indicators                                          AI  ex I
Actuat        Est. . .--.--........-.......Projected- ----.....---..---.-
1990        1991      1992      1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2M0
(emstl percentae changes)
Gross DOmestic Product (GOP)            -4.3         -7.7      1.8       3.1    3.5    3.8    4.5    4.8    5.0    5.0    5.0
of iwich:
tndustry                             -8.8       -13.4       3.4       3.4    3.5    3.8    4.5    4.5        5.0    5.0    5.0
Agriculture and Forestry             -8.3          0.4      -0.4      3.5    2.0    2.5    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Services                              0.5         -6.3      1.4       2.8    3.8    4.1    4.8    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4
Real private consuwption                -2.6        --7.0      o.8       0.2    2.2    3.6    3.8    4.1    4.3    4.6    4.6
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate          14.9         24.4     1S.8      24.5   13.8   13.8   27.8   24.1    3.3   19.7    8.0
Export Volune                          -18.3         -3.9      8.2       8.0    7.2    6.9    6.8    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.S
tiport Voltume                          13.4        -4.8       3.5       6.0    7.3    7.0    6.8    6.5    6.5    6.1    6.2
(Share of market price GDP)
Gross Investmelt                        23.0         23.0     23.0      22.4   21.9   21.2   21.8   22.0   20.4   20.4   19.5
Non-averrment investmet              17.8         18.7     19.1      18.7   18.5   18.2   18.9   19.2   17.9   17.9   17.3
Govenrent Investment                  5.2         4.3       4.0       3.7    3.4    3.0    2.9    2.8    2.6    2.6    2.2
National Savings                        23.7         24.0     21.7      21.3   20.4   19.6   20.3   20.4   18.6   18.5   17.3
Non*-GoarNmanet savings              14.6         15.4     11.0      10.9   10.6   10.2   11.0   12.0   11.2   11.9   11.5
Government Savings                    9.1         8.6      10.7      10.4    9.8    9.4    9.3    8.4    7.4    6.6    5.9
Savings-investment Gap                   0.7          1.0     -1.3      -1.1   -1.4   -1.6   -1.5   -1.6   -1.8   -1.9   -2.2
Non-CcrerrcJent                     -3.2        -3.3      -8.0      -7.8   -7.9   -8.1   -7.9   -7.2   -6.7   -6.0   -5.8
Gaverram t                            3.9         4.3       6.7       6.7    6.5    6.4    6.3    5.6    4.8    4.1    3.7
currMet Actougt 8alune                   o.r          1.0     -1.3      -1.1   -1.4   -1.6   -1.5   -1.6   *1.8   -1.9   -2.2
Exports (GCFS)                          33.6        35.3      34.8      35.4   36.4   3?.5   38.6   39.4   40.3   41.1   42.0
Imports (6JlS)                          30.7        32.7      33.9      33.8   35.3   36.5   37.?   38.6   39.7   40.6   41.7
Current Account Bace                   230.2       326.6   -493.4   -437.9  -610.8  -749.4  -765.5  -863.2 -1074.0 -1240.9 -1499.2
(in mittons of current USO
Source: Ministry of Finance n staff estimates. 



Table 2: Batance of Payments   Ilt                                                    Afrex I
(in millions of current US*)
Actual         Est.              -----------------------------P         ro jected- ------------------------------...
1990         1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
A. Exports of CUFS                  11050         11727     12778      13925     15400     17101      19059     21208     23605      26265     29221
1. Merchandise (FOB)               8989         9405      10203     11196      12494     13964     15673      17552     19651     21989      24596
2. Von-Factor Services             2060          2322      2574      2728       2906      3137      3386       3655      3954      4276       4625
B. Imports of GNfS                  10115         10853     12455     13307      14915     16628     18615      20744     23243      25953     29031
1. Merchandise (FOB)               8555         9253      10403     10994      12331     13799     15531      17416     19684     22148      24963
2. Von-Factor Services             1560          1600      2052      2313       2583      2829      3083       3329      3559      3805       4068
C. Resource Balance                   935           875       323       618        485       472       444        464       362       312        190
D. Net Factor Income                -1441         -1418     -1616      -1656     -1596     -1622      -1610     -1727     -1836      -1953     -2089
1. Factor Receipts                  252          288        298       288        410       489       458        414       433       665        501
2. Factor Payments                 1693          1706      1915      1943       2006      2111      2068       2141      2269      2418       2590
E. Net Current Transfers              736           870       800       600        50D       400        400       400       400        400       400
F. Current Account Balance            230           327      -493      -438       -611      -749      -765       -863     -1074      -1241     -1499      o
S. Long Term Capital InfLows          332          1562       652      1473       1329      1084       809       1670      2094       2302      2610
1. Direct Investment                337          1250      1250      1350       1430      1S00      1540       1600      1690      1740       1760
2. Net LT Borrowing (ORS)            91           453      -498       230         13      -293      -600        210       554       722       1020
a. Disbursements                  2316         2914       2056      2217       2213      2488      2919       3049      3024      3649       3959
b. Repayments                     2225         2462       2554      1986       2200      2781      3519       2839      2471      2928       2938
3. Net LT Credits Extended          -96          -141      -100      -107       -114      -123       -131      -140      -150       -160      -170
H. Total Other Items (net)          -1000          -593      -400       -189      -190      -219       -258      -281      -295       -290      -290
1. Met Short-Term Capital          -893         -593       -400      -189       -190      -219      -258       -281      -295       -290      -290
2. Capital Flows n.e.i. 2/         -107             0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0
1. Change in Net Reserves             438         -1295       242      -846       -529      -115       214       -526      -725       -771      -821
(=decrease)
1. Net Credit from the IMF         -148          885        404       398       -228      -264      -266       -266      -266      -266       -266
2. Other Reserve Changes            586         -2181      -162     -1245       -300       149       481       -260      -459       -505      -555
Source: National Bank of Hungary and staff estimates.                                                                                                  ( 
1/ Historical balance of payments figures were derived from consolidating BOP accounts in convertible and nonconvertible currencies.                  I. F
2/ For 1990, consists of nonconvertible currency MLT capital flows.                                                                                    0



Table 2 (Continued): Balance of Payments                                            re   I
(in millions of current USS)
Actual        Est. -                   ---------P                 roete--------------------------re-----P.
1990        1991      1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      200C
J. External Debt tndicators
1.Total DOD (in US$ mtn)        21551        22296    21801     22241      )1&44    21059    19935    19598    19591       19756    20220
2. DOD/GDP                       65.5%        67.2%     59.4%     56.5%      ..id  46.2%       40.3%     36.4%     33.4%    30.9%     29.0%
3. Debt Service/XGS              38.4%        35.0%     33.2%     25.9%    -         26.0%     26.3X     20.2%     16.5X    16.5%    14.9%
4. InterestiXGS                  14.8%        13.8%     13.32     11.6%     9.9%      8.72      6.9%      5.8%     5.1X      4.5%      4.1%
5. Interest/GOP                   5.1%         5.0%     4.7%      4.2%      3.7%      3.4X      2.7%      2.3%     2.12      1.9%      1.8%
K. Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. International Reserves        1069         3250     3412      4656      4957      4808      4327     4587      5045      5550      6105
(excluding gold)  3/
2. Gold Cend-year)                 97           97       97        97        97        97        97       97        97        97        97
3. Gross Reserves (incLuding     1167         3347      3509      4753     5054      4905      4424      4684     5143      5647      6202
gold)   3/
4. Gross Reserves (in onths       2.3          4.3       4.0       5.2      4.9       4.3       3.4       3.2       3.1      3.1       3.0    1
of merchandise imports 3/ 4/                                                                                                               w
L. Exchange Rates
1. In Mammat loran               63.2         75.0     82.3      87.1      89.5      90.5      91.6     92.7      93.8      94.8      95.9
(Forinte/USS)
2. In Real Terms: Index         100.0        104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1    104.1
(1990.100)
Source: lationaL Bank of Hungary and staff estimates.
3/ Inernational and gross reserves in convertible currency only for 1990.
4/ Merchandise imports in convertible currency only for 1990.
Q0Q
I.,



40 -                        muex 2
Page 1 of 26
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
STATE ENTERPRISE SECTOR - LETTER OF REFORM POLICY
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.    I am writing this letter to ask the World Bank for an Enterprise Reform
loan (ERL) in support of our program to reform the present state enterprise (SE)
sector, within the context of our medium term economic reform program, which was
presented in our "Memorandum of the Economic Transformation and Medium Term
Policies," and which aims at the establishment of a modern European market
economy.
Background
2.   As described in our "Memorandum" and the letter of development policy of
May 30, 1991 related to SAL 2, the basic thrust of our structural reforms is to
complete the transition to a competitive market economy in Hungary by increasing
competition and by emphasizing the role of markets and the private sector. The
role of the state, direatly as owner of productive assets, and indirectly through
specific and targeted interventions in economic activity, is to be reduced
substantially.
3.    The four main components of the Government's structural reforms are:  (i)
reduction of the role of the state through private sector development and
measures to reduce the role of the state budget in redistributing resources
through taxes and subsidies; (ii) intensification of competition through strong
reliance on import and domestic price liberalization, promotion of small and
medium sized enterprises, and an effective anti-trust policy including the break-
up of highly concentrated market structures that limit competition; (iii)
financial system reform, including further liberalization and improved prudential
regulations and supervision, and increased competition in the financial sector;
and (iv) the further development of an adequate social safety net. The reform
of the SE sector is of crucial importance for the success of these components.
The State Enterprise Sector and Overall Direction of Reform
4.    Gneral. The SE sector still dominates the Hungarian economy, in spite of
the rapid growth in the private sector over the past few years.   Due to this
heavy preponderance, it is crucial for Hungary's economic development that
economic reforms at the macrolevel are accompanied by measures that will have a
more direct impact on the performance of economic agents and enterprises. To



- 41 -                        An_nae 
Page 2 of 26
this end, the Government is implementing a series of inter-related SE sector
reforms that are summarized in the attached policy matrix (Attachment 1). The
aim of these reforms is to restructure the economy and thus restore economic
growth by a series of rapid and significant changes within the SE sector in the
areas of privatization, ownership reform and corporate governance, restructuring
and the exit of uneconomic units.   We are also pursuing further policy
improvements to strengthen the framework within which public and private
enterprises will be operating.
5.    The previous, partial reforms in the SE sector over the past decade have
not given the desired results, and the performance of many parts of the sector
has been unsatisfactory. This was partly due to the web of restrictions on
enterprise behavior (including investment approvals, price controls, subsidies,
tariffs and other import protection, taxation system, wage controls).   These
have been reduced significantly over the past few years, including the 1988 tax
reform, elimination of SE investment controls, subsidies reductions, elimination
of many regulations and licensing requirements and the gradual liberalization of
imports. Substantial further steps are being taken under the ongoing reform
program. In particular, competition from imports has been incxeased with the
elimination of import licensing for goods competing with more tha.o 77.5 percent
of domestic  industrial production  (on the basis of 1988 weights).   The
competition legislation is also being strengthened and, effective January 1991,
almost 90 percent of consumer goods prices can be set freely.   Financial
discipline is being strengthened through the continued reduction in subsidies and
through the ongoing banking reform, including a new Banking Law, which was
adopted by Parliament and came into force on December 1, 1991.
6.    While the business environment for SEs has thus been improved considerably,
it has in recent years becore increasingly apparent that the lack of an ownership
function in the SEs is the main single reason for the continued weakness of
response to the economic liberalization and decentralization process, and that
most SEs are in need of restructuring to adapt to their changed economic
environment.   Fundamental reforms are therefore required in this regard.
Privatization represents our preferred approach towards ownership reform, and the
Government aims to privatize virtually the entire competitive SE sector in the
long run, with a medium-term target of reducing the share of state-owned property
to less than SOZ of total assets in the competitive sector by the end of 1994.
This target is of unprecedented magnitude, and will require concerted actions by
Government organs, most importantly the State Property Agency (SPA). A number
of important steps have been already taken toward achieving our privatization
target. The enabling legislation for privatization is in place, including the
Company Law (Law of Economic Associations), Transformation Law, Law on State
Property Agency, Law on Protection of State Assets and Law on Privatization of
Retail Trade and Consumer Services. In March 1990, the SPA was created as the
focal point for privatization, and the Government has recently approved and
submitted to Parliament its updated Assets Policy Guidelines.   We are also
actively encouraging foreign investment in Hungary's productive sectors and we
would welcome an increase in the share of foreign ownership in these sectors from
the present 3 percent to as much as 20-30 percent within the next 3-4 years.
7.          However, while the privatization process represents the core of the
SE sector reform, it cannot alone immediately solve the problems of the sector,



- 42 -                        Mex 2
Page 3 of 26
and it ls also likely to be a time-consuming process involving a number of
uncertainties over which the Government has little control. A significant number
of enterprises will remain under state ownership for the foreseeable future, and
it is therefore of vital importance also to address more directly the problems
of the SE sector. This we will do in two ways, through a systematic reform of
the forms of state ownership of enterprises, and through measures to promote and
encourage their restructuring.
Privatization Program
8.    rivatition Srategy. The Government has decided to open up all SEs for
privatization to domestic and foreign investors with a limited number of
exceptions and, in the longer term, to privatize virtually all existing SEs in
the competitive sector. The Government's medium-term objective is to reduce
through privatization the share of state-owned property to less than 50 percent
of total assets in the competitive sector of the economy by the end of 1994. The
Government aims to privatize through sales of enterprises and not through any
form of "free" distribution of shares (except for the compensation notes and
possible transfers to local governments, the social security administration and
churches).  This is in line with its primary privatization objective to attract
experienced owners into the SEs, who are placing their own resources at risk, and
can be expected to act as real owners. This is feasible since Hungary is further
ahead than the other former CMEA countries in many aspects of economic
transformation as a result of the gradual reform process over the past decade,
and in view of the large flow of direct foreign investment into Hungary, which
makes it realistic to dispose of SEs through sales.
9.   However, we are aware that under any international comparison, this
privatization objective is ambitious, particularly in view of the uncertain
demand for many Hungarian SEs, the time required to undertake and complete
complex privatization transactions, the need to have an internal consensus for
the individual privatization transactions, the rudimentary state of the Hungarian
capital market and the small and inexperienced domestic private sector. Also,
SPA as the Government's privatization authority is still relatively new, and its
current staffing is inadequate for it alone to manage the privatization of the
SE sector.
10.  The Government has a comprehensive strategy for the privatization of the
SE sector that takes into account these problems. The strategy focuses on the
orderly sale of SEs and relies on a multi-track approach to ensure a rapid pace.
Under this strategy, privatizations should normally be done in a commercial way,
through selling of shares to local or foreign investors; there will be no pre-
emptive rights for previous owners of assets in the SE sector except possibly in
some very limited circumtances.   The primary objective is. to improve the
viability and efficiency of the present SEs and to strengthen the competitive
forces in the economy.  Secondary objectives of privatization are to raise
government revenues in order to reduce state debt, develop the local capital
market, and spread ownership widely among the domestic population, including
small investors and employees. While there will be variations on a case-by-case
basis, preference will be given to strategic investors who will take a
significant equity stake in the firms and exert greater influence and control
over managers.   However, the Government will not give investors special



-43-                          Ane  2
Page 4 of 26
privileges, allowances, or new monopoly rights to attract interest or to maximize
sale price and revenues, since this would sacrifice the overriding goals of
competition and efficiency. Revenue considerations will also not interfere with
other important factors of success, such as demonstration effects and speed. For
example, shares for sale through a flotation on the stock market will be priced
to ensure a favorable market response and register an early demonstration of
success for future such sales, rather than to maximize revenues for the
Government.
11.   Within the framework of this overall strategy, the major principles for
privatization transactions will be that: (i) the process shall be transparent
and open; (ii) SEs shall be valued, taking into account market conditions and
future earnings capacity, in order to establish a reference price for the seller
(SPA or the SE itself) and to meet important due diligence requirements; and
(iii) competitive processes shall be used to the fullest extent possible in the
interest of transparency and price. Work is under way to broaden the range of
privatization techniques to include, in addition to sales of SEs, measures such
as the transfer of control, but not necessarily full ownership, to the private
sector (through graduated sales, management contracts and leases, and the
contracting out of services), the grouping of comparable SEs for sale as a
package, and the direct sale of SE assets.   The Government also aims to
distribute ownership more widely by selling shares on the stock exchange to the
extent possible in view of likely capital constraints and the possible impact on
the secondary market of a large number of new issues. However, such constraints
will not hold up otherwise feasible privatizations.
12.   SEs that are in good financial condition, operate in competitive (and
potentially competitive) markets, and are likely to generate strong investor
interest will be selected by SPA for sale as quickly as possible. At the same
time, given the large number of SEs in the state portfolio, SPA will concentrate
its scarce resources on priority SEs with the largest potential benefits for the
development of the economy as a whole.   Large firms and monopolies will be
privatized after adequate measures have been taken to increase competition. Such
measures may include the break-up of firms into smaller and competing parts, the
separation of competitive and non-competitive activities, and deregulation and
removal of barriers to entry. The Government has started with the break-up of
the national oil and gas company, which was completed by June 30, 1991. The
Government wants to encourage competition and to invite private capital to invest
in present monopolistic sectors, including in particular oil and gas,
telecommunications, and electric power. However, this should take place only
within the framework of a credible, enforceable and predictable regulatory
regime. As a first step in this regard, a draft mining (including for oil and
gas) law has been submitted to the Government, providing for an appropriate
sectoral administration and for private (including foreign) investments in mining
(including for oil and gas) exploration and production. Similar approaches will
be adopted for other monopolistic sectors.
13.   The Government is also aware that for a number of privatizations, a clear
agreement will be required (often between the Government and an enterprise) as
to who will be responsible for clean-up of past environmental damage,
particularly hazardous waste.   Work is under way to develop a program to
introduce appropriate and enforceable industrial environmental standards, which



-44 -                           mnex- 2
Page 5 of 26
is likely to lead to a phased, multi-year program of intermediate standards for
existing enterprises, backed up by enforcement to ensure compliance. In this
context, the Government will also address the liability issues for past
environmental damage, and envirormental audits are likely to be part of the
privatization process for relevant SEs.
14.  Privatizationa of the SEs will involve five main tracks:  (M) active
privatization programs, where SEs are offered for sale by SPA with help from
domestic and international consultants; (ii) enterprise-initiated privatizations,
initiated and   managed by SEs themselves under SPA  overview; (iii)  the
privatization of retail and catering shops and units under the overall control
of SPA; (iv) buyer-initiated privatizations managed by SPA; and (v) the recently
added decentralized self -privatizations using SPA-appointed agents. Progress is
being made in each of these areas, as discussed below.
15.  Active Privatizations.  The first active privatization program (FPP) was
launched in September 1990.   Twenty firms of diverse size and activity are
included in the program, representing a total book value of Ft.71 billion or 3.5
percent c all SE assets in the competitive sector. International and local
advisers have been selected, and we appreciate that the proceeds of an existing
Bark loan are financing most of the costs of the program in order to expedite the
process. Considerable progress is being made for many of these enterprises, and
negotiations with potential investors are reasonably advanced for ten of the
twenty SEs. The presentation of a large group of SEs in the FPP was useful in
getting the privatization process under way, and served also to generate a very
considerable amount of interest among potential consultants and investors.
Subsequent active programs mostly focus on individual strategic SEs or on smaller
numbers of strategic SEs within specific sectors or of a similar nature, in order
for the privatization process to proceed as smoothly as possible. A program for
the privatization of shell enterprises 1 has been announced, and privatization
programs for SEs in the construction and vineyard sectors are under way. At the
same time, the main focus of privatization efforts is shifting to more
decentralized mechanisms.
16.   Enterprise-Initiated Privatizations. Under these privatizations, the SEs
themselves will take the initiative and carry out their own privatizations, under
adequate SPA oversight. So far, SPA has approved 330 SE proposals (including
joint ventures as well as sales of assets and excluding requests for
transformation), accounting for total SE assets of Ft. 62 billion.   The
Government has now decided to place increased emphasis on enterprise-initiated
privatizations in order to expedite the process.
17.  Reta&l Privatization.  SPA is responsible for the privatization of small
business units (typically in the retail sector) under the 1990 Retail
Privatization Law. SPA has prepared a comprehensive inventory of the eligible
retail units, and has prepared a comprehensive format for their privatization
through auctions. The program was launched in December 1990. Initially, many
1 Enterprises which have disposed of their physical assets in major part
or in full (typically through transfers to joint ventures) are called shell
enterprises.



-45 -                        &Mr. a
Page 6 of 26
units offered for sale were not sold, principally because of problems concerning
the security of leasehold contracts. We examined these questions on an urgent
basis and have taken steps to resolve them. Measures to avoid unjustifiable rent
increases by the local authorities will be submitted by the relevant ministry to
the Government shortly. The program has picked up speed; in 1991 auctions were
held for 2,648 units and 2,120 units were sold for a total amount of Ft. 5.1
billion (about US$65 million equivalent).   A further 2,500 units will be
auctioned in 1992 and the remainder (about 1,500) in 1993. The Government will
keep the progress of the retail privatization program under review and will take
steps as and when necessary to keep up the pace of the program. SPA will manage
the minimum prices in a flexible manner, so as to encourage rapid sales of retail
properties.
18. Buyer-Initiated Privatizations. In February 1991, SPA announced a program
of buyer-initiated privatizations, in which interested parties are able to make
offers to SPA for state assets or for enterprises which have not been otherwise
offered for sale. Twenty transactions have been completed and an additional 60 -
70 are under preparation.
19.   Decentralization through Self-grivatization. Given the sheer magnitude of
the Government's privatization program, it is necessary to proceed rapidly
through all four privatization tracks described above.  Additionally, in order
to alleviate the administrative burden on SPA and to free up its resources for
the privatization of larger and more important SEs, the Government supports SPA's
efforts to decentralize the privatization process for the smaller enterprises,
starting with the implementation of a fifth track to use agents for smaller SEs.
SPA has decided that for SEs with less than 300 employees and assets and annual
turnover of less than Ft. 300 million (about US$4.0 million equivalent),
privatizations can be implemented by approved agents on behalf of SPA, and under
SPA's ex-post review.  Individual SEs can select any approved agent to carry out
the privatization.   This method has the significant advantage of increasing
dramatically the number of private market players and will apply to about half
of all SEs. SPA completed the selection of the approved agents for a first group
of about 350 SEs with total assets of Ft. 20 billion in September 1991. Of
these, 34 SEs have been transformed, and 4 were fully sold by December 1991. The
agents are contractually obliged to sell the remaining enterprises in this group
by March 1993. As currently planned, about 600 additional SEs with up to 1,000
employees and assets and annual turnover up to Ft. 1,000 million, with aggregate
gross assets of Ft. 300 billion (representing more than 15 percent of SE assets
in the competitive sector) will be added shortly for self-privatization in this
way; this phase is expected to be announced in the first quarter of 1992. New
agents will be added to the list already approved by SPA, and these agents must
complete the sales by December 1994.   This will help further accelerate
privatization. As the ownership reform is implemented, and responsible ownership
and company boards are introduced into the transformed SEs, the control burden
on SPA will be further reduced.
20.   Financing.  To facilitate and accelerate privatization, the National Bank
of Hungary (NBH) has,  since   March 1991, refinanced credits extended by
commercial banks to Hungarian citizens, or associations of private persons, for
purchasing either state assets sold by the SPA, or shares in privatized
companies. As Government debt will be retired in the process of privatization



- 46 -                        Anne& 2
Page 7 of 26
(in the case of credit financing, by the full amount of the newly refinanced
credit), no expansion of net domestic credit will result. Notwithstanding the
Government's general policy of non-subsidization of credit and positive real
interest rates, the privatization credits are currently made at a preferential
interest rate. However, the subsidy is less than that on outstanding long-term
government debt. As a result, the cash flow position of the consolidated public
sector, including NBH, improves from the operation of this facility.  In any
event, the preferential credit scheme is limited to the support of the
privatization process, will be reviewed on a periodic basis (considering in
particular the extent to which the schemes do in fact serve to attract
additional, viable domestic buyers to the privatization process), and will
eventually be phased out. The Government has recently reviewed and modified the
tax incentives for investments in company shares, in order to ensure that such
investments are competitive with other investments opportunities for domestic
individuals and companies.
21.   Emnloyee Benefits.  It is important that the privatization process as a
whole, as well. as individual transactions, meet with a minimum of social
approval. The maintenance of an orderly process is one means in this regard.
Also, the Transformation Law provides for the participation of the employees of
an SE in its privatization. According to the Asset Policy Guidelines, the SPA
can provide an allowance to employees to purchase shares of the transformed SEs.
The maximum amount of this allowance cannot be higher than 10 of the value of
the company's equity, or the annual salary of the employees. The employees of
an SE under privatization thus know in advance their potential participation, on
a voluntary basis.   The Government has also submitted to Parliament a bill
covering employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) to enhance ownership
opportunities for employees; under its provisions, employees may receive an
ownership interest in their company through collective action.
22.   Tranfers to Social Security Administration.   The Government is also
reviewing the possibility of transferring substantial resources to the Social
Security Administration in the form of portfolio share holdings in transformed
SEs. The final decision will be taken based on the funding requirements for the
social security system. However, the Government recognizes that such a transfer
would impose significant challenges, and that responsible administration of
transferred assets would require the early establishment of a competent portfolio
administration authority that would operate under carefully prepared policies and
criteria, including the following: (a) The amount of assets to be transferred
each year will be determined, inter alia, in light of SPA's privatization
program. (b) The Social Security Portfolio Administration will hold a portfolio
of minority investments (typically, about 10 percent of the voting shares in a
transformed SE), with the objective of maximizing long term returns from capital
appreciations and also dividends. It will in its operations take into account
the need not to disrupt the markets through large transactions, and in particular
not to create disruptions through early attempts to dispose of large positions
of stock. (c) Normally, these assets will be administered as investments and
without attempting significant ownership influence, outside of participation in
the annual meetings.   However, there would be exceptions when required to
safeguard the value of the investments. (d) Th.e portfolio administration will be
staffed with a sufficient number of competent professionals, and will establish
proper routines for management and control of assets, under proper auditing.



- 47-                         Annex 2
Page 8 of 26
23.   In view of the uncertainties still surrounding the basic decisions
concerning these questions, the Government is not yet in a position to enunciate
its stated Social Security Administration portfolio policies related to the
possible asset transfers. However, if and when a final decision is taken to
transfer substantial state assets to the Social Security Administration, the
Government will consult with the Bank concerning the implications for SPA's
privatization program, the establishment of portfolio administration capacity,
and the related policies and criteria.
24.   Cgomensation Law.   A law has recently been adopted that will provide
partial compensation for past confiscations of property. Under this scheme,
compensation notes of up to Ft.60 billion may be issued to eligible claimants,
to be used in part for the acquisition of shares and company assets from SPA.
This presents significant opportunities and challenges for the privatization
program. The related policies are under advanced preparation, the main features
of which include: (i) SPA would have flexibility in accepting notes as full or
partial payment; and (ii) it will offer a series of instruments that will be
offered in a timely manner for the holders of compensation notes, possibly
including new instruments like participation in investment funds.
25. The State Property Agency. SPA has made remarkable progress in a very
short period of time, and has assumed a wide range of tasks and responsibilities.
Despite these achievements, the agency is facing heavy pressures and severe human
resource constraints in undertaking the Government's privatization program. In
order to maximize the benefits from its activities, SPA has adopted a
comprehensive institutional development program focussing on staffing, technical
assistance and internal organization, and addressing key bottlenecks and present
weaknesses in the organization. SPA has also adopted a detailed work program for
1992, including the steps leading to the objective of having completed by the end
of that year (since SPA's establishment) privatizations equal to 12 percent of
assets in the competitive sector, of which privatizations for about 7 percent
were far advanced or completed by end of 1991. In the second half of 1992, SPA
will adopt a detailed work program for 1993, consistent with a target of
privatization in that year of SEs with assets of at least 10 percent of total
assets in the competitive sector. The Government has provided SPA with the
resources to strengthen staff capacity and skills, in particular to further
develop SPA's asset management functions, the decentralization of small and
medium privatizations, and other tasks in SPA's 1992 work program.
26.   Lesgal Franework.   The present legal framework for privatization is
reasonably complete. However, the existence of several legislative acts with
numerous amendments and possible contradictions makes understanding of the legal
implications by Hungarian and foreign nationals difficult and may result at times
in, an unduly cumbersome privatization process, and the exercise of property
rights is not clearly and fully defined in all respects.    In addition, a
significant number of smaller problems is evident in the existing laws, and there
is a need to develop the background legislation and practices. To this end, a
legislative review commission was established under the Ministry of Justice for
ensuring that the legislation connected with SE ownership, transformation and
privatization forms a sound and coherent basis for achieving the Government's
objectives.   The objective of the commission has been to prepare draft



- 48 -                        Annex 2
Page 9 of 26
modifications and clarifications to the existing transformation and privatization
laws that have now been approved by Government and submitted to Parliament.
27. The Government sees the recently adopted Accounting and Auditing Law as
very important for the general development of the enterprise and financial
sectors in Hungary. The Law entered into effect on January 1, 1992, at the start
of the fiscal year. The Government will give full support to the effective
implementation of this Law, including through an ambitious dissemination program
that is already under implementation. It will also review with the Bank other
subsequent measures to strengthen and modernize the accounting and auditing
profession in Hungary.
28.   Local Ent2rvrises and Cpogeratives. The Parliament enacted in January 1992
a Law on Cooperatives and a Law on the Transformation of Existing Cooperatives.
These laws define the framework for the establishment of new cooperative property
and clarify the procedures for determining the ownership rights of the members
of existing cooperatives.   It is also expected in this regard that many
cooperatives ma; in fact, once the appropriate legislation is in place, decide
to transform themselves into companies governed by the Law of Economic
Associations. The statistical data are inadequate on the enterprise sector, and
in particular on smaller enterprises, non-agricultural cooperatives and local
enterprises; this issue will be addressed soon by the statistical authorities.
However, it is known that the enterprises under local government control account
for only a small portion of the competitive sector and are primarily providing
local services of various kinds. Many of these local enterprises are organized
as budgetary entities; their future roles are related to the resolution of
various complicated issues concerning local government financing and land and
property ownership issues. Enterprises that were established by the former local
councils that are organized in the present state enterprise forms will be
included in the transformation process. Privatization issues concerning these
enterprises are the responsibility of SPA.
Ownership Reform
29. Ownership Policy. The Government has announced a fundamental enterprise
ownership policy with three principal components:   First,  that it is the
Government's policy to develop the ownership function in the enterprise sector,
in order to strengthen corporate governance in Hungary; second, that the SEs will
quickly be placed in the same legal position as privately owned companies through
transformations into company form; and third, that the Government will take the
necessary steps to exercise the ownership rights over state-owi.ed enterprises
organized as share-holding companies governed by the Law of Economic
Associations, within the parameters established in this Law, and without
involving the Government in operational management. Within the Government, the
policy responsibility for state asset ownership and privatization issues has been
placed with a Minister without Portfolio. The Government's ownership objectives
will be achieved through the elimination of the present SE legal formats, the
rapid transformation of SEs into company form, and the establishment of an
effective ownership framework for the transformed enterprises.
30. By the end of 1991, 216 SEs were already transformed into company form, and
SPA is in the process of reviewing 636 additional applications for early



-49                           Annex 2
Page 10 of 26
transformation. Under its ownership policy the Government intends that, the
self-management and state administered forms for SEs will be eliminated by the
end of 1992, possibly with a few exceptions for some SEs with significant non-
commercial objectives and that might be retained in state administered form. The
legal measures to enforce this rapid transformation have been approved by the
Government and submitted to Parliament, and include an exemption from the
valuation  now  required  for  the  completion  of  a  transformation.    The
transformation process will be supervised by SPA, and the State Asset Management
Company (SAMC). Within its overall transformation timeframe, the Government will
encourage all SEs to transform rapidly into company form, with particular
emphasis on the following priority classes of enterprises:  SEs in the first and
second privatization programs, as well as in the self privatization program, and
SEs in the vineyard, constructicn and trucking sectors, the enterl.:ises within
the former oil and gas trust and the power trust, the SEs now earmarked for
longer term state ownership, and SEs requesting early transformation.   The
Government will also review the possible inclusion of other classes of SEs among
the transformation priorities.   About 400 SEs with total assets of Ft. 500
billion will have been transformed between June 1991 and end-1992.
31.   Exercise of Ownershin.  The Government will separate clearly the exercise
of state asset ownership from sectoral policy and regulatory administration.
32.   Transient Ownership.   All transformed SEs (except for the long-term
holdings discussed below) will be the responsibility of SPA, which will also be
responsible for the general development of the ownership function in these
companies. SPA will have the right ani responsibility to exercise fully all the
ownership rights of the state in these companies, in accordance with the Law of
Economic Associations and other applicable laws, with the objective of maximizing
over time the value of these assets while facilitating as much as possible their
early privatization on reasonable terms.   To this end, the Government has
provided SPA with sufficient additional resources. SPA has already established
an asset valuation, supervision and control department, and also developed its
institutional development plan.
33.   In order to develop the ownership function in Hungary,  SPA will in
particular take actions along the following lines. First, it will develop a
monitoring system, which will specify minimum informatlon requirements from each
company to its board of directors (while under state majority ownership), and the
selective reporting by the company boards to a small unit within SPA. Second,
to str3ngthen the functioning of company boards, it will steps to (i) establish
criteria for the selection of board members; (ii) develop a remuneration policy
that will provide appropriate incentives for board members; (iii) develop a
roster of potential directors and a public registry of directors; (iv) provide
training for board members; and (v) after some time, review and initiate steps
to improve as necessary the legal role of boards and the legal status, rights and
responsibilities of board members.
34.   For the individual transformed SEs, SPA will exercise its ownership
primarily through the selection and monitoring of company boards, and through the
mechanism of contracting out the ownership responsibilities to private
contractors  (this  scheme  is  already  under  advanced  preparation).    The
establishment of the company boards will provide the transformed SEs with an



-5  -                         Annex 2
Page 11 of 26
organ clearly responsible for strategic decisions and management oversight, and
will also provide an opportunity to inject appropriate expertise to assist and
guide management. The boards, as representatives of the owner(s), will also
provide a different (and often longer-term perspective) from that of daily
management, and with particular focus on maintenance and growth of the capital
in the transformed SEs. For these reasons, the establishment of the boards can
be expected to improve the performance of the transformed SEs. In addition, the
boards will also help SPA to decentralize parts of its control function over
privatization  transactions.    SPA will  also utilize  other mechanisms  as
appropriate, such as direct contracts with the enterprises and the selective
establishment of holding companies, especially in cases where a series of
companies might be facing similar problems and their early privatization is not
possible. In exceptional cases, such as when enterprises are in crisis or when
evidence exists of negligent behavior by managements and/or boards, SPA will also
be prepared to act more directly, primarily through replacements of the
directors. In addition, SPA will also continue to be responsible for the state's
management of portfolio (minority) holdings in privatized enterprises.   Such
assets require different management from that of ownership of state enterprises;
the portfolio management will follow the principles already established in SPA's
Asset Policy Guidelines, which emphasize the commercial, profit-oriented basis
of the asset management and the expected increased decentralization of portfolio
management.
35.   Longer Term Ownership.  The Government has announced its decision to open
up all SEs for privatization to domestic or foreign investors, with a limited
number of exceptions. Longer term state ownership (including minority ownership)
will be maintained for the time being in 22 enterprises in the industry and
infrastructure sectors, selacted activities of 46 enterprises in the agriculture
sector, 16 enterprises engaged in the publication of books for school children,
4 enterprises engaged in defense-related trade, and some 100 others that are
engaged in providing public services and other non-commercial activities.
Together, these account for about 20 percent of total SE assets. 100 percent
ownership will be maintained in the Railways, Airport and Postal Services
enterprises and some 30 others largely under the Ministries of Culture and
Education, Defense, Justice and Social Welfare. 51 percent ownership will be
maintained in enterprises in petroleum, power, aluminium, telecommunications,
airlines, defense industries and related trading companies and some 90 cultural
and public services enterprises. 25 percent ownership will be maintained in some
pharmaceutical and traditional china pottery enterprises and some 30 others in
infrastructure and agriculture. All other SEs will be open to full privatization
including to foreign investors. The Government's announcement of this list will
help remove present ambiguities in the minds of some foreign investors. The
limited list of restricted enterprises will be updated on an annual basis in line
with the general opening of Hungary's economy, and the Government is also
prepared to consider any attractive offers for the enterprises on this list. All
these SEs are expected to operate on mostly commercial terms, will be able to
enter into joint ventures and the selling of assets, and private investment
(including foreign) will be welcomed in the sectors covered by these enterprises,
including in particular petroleum, power, chemicals and telecommunications. In
view of importance of banks in the transformation process, the Government is
preparing for the privatization of the four major state-owned commercial banks.



-51-                          Annex 2
Page 12 of 26
A privatization policy for these banks is under discussion and will be formulated
by end 1992.
36.   For the long-term ownership interests, responsibility within the Government
will be with the designated Minister without Portfolio, who will exercise the
ownership rights and asset management responsibility through a new State Asset
Management Company (SAMC) that will be formally established shortly.  The SAMC
will be a 100 percent Government-owned joint stock company with a small
professional staff that will report to the Minister through a Managing Director
and a Board. SAMC will exercise its ownership over the long-term state-owned and
companies primarily through a number of diverse intermediaries (including holding
companies) that will be established and begin operations during 1992, with a
reasonable  control  span permitting  efficient  resource  use.   Appropriate
objectives and policy statements will be established for each intermediary, as
well as criteria for the selection of board members and a monitoring system. The
Government will provide adequate resources for the operation of the SAMC in a
timely manner and as required for the establishment and operation of the
intermediaries. The draft law covering the establishment, operation, powers and
responsibilities of SAMC has been approved by the Government and will be
submitted to Parliament.
37.   Other State Pro_erties.  Under the Government's new ownership policy, all
property of entities financed out of the central budget, including assets used
either for administrative purposes or for general public use (such as streets and
national parks), will be administered by the Government's treasury asset
management entity that reports to the Minister of Finance. This entity will
develop policies for the various types of assets, such as continuing their
administration by central budget entities, leasing the assets for a fee, allowing
the continual free use, and possibly selling-off. The Government will also
pursue a land policy reform under which most of the cultivated land is expected
to become the property of private individuals. A law clarifying the ownership
of non-agricultural real estate, with the transfer to local governments of most
state-owned flats and considerable amounts of non-residential real estate is
already in force. Restrictions on real estate acquisitions by foreigners will
be eased and a much simpler approval system will be introduced.
38.   Implementation.    The  implementation  of  the  ownership  reforms will
necessarily take considerable time, due to the fact that they represent
significant changes from past and present practices in the SE sector, and that
the reforms will requiro substantial human resource development at the government
and enterprise levels. Accordingly, an initial SPA work program for the reform
has been prepared that will cover a period of about six months and that will lay
the basis for a subsequent more ambitious program. The initial work program
includes in particular (i) specific steps to implement SPA's contracting out
mechanism (including the preparation of legal documentation, establishment of
criteria for evaluating contractors and steps to establish a proper monitoring
mechanism of ownership contractors); (ii) steps to develop systematic policies
and criteria for the exercise of ownership (including for the use of company
boards and for the establishment of holding companies); and (iii) the steps to
prepare a subsequent (one year) comprehensive implementation program that will
be initiated at the latest by mid-1992 and will be fully implemented by June
1993. This latter program will cover all important aspects of the implementation



-52 -
Page 13 of 26
of the reform, including detailed criteria and timing for items such as (i)
ownership function development (monitoring mechanism, board member selection and
training, etc.); (ii) selective establishment of holding companies under SPA;
(iii) encouragement of ownership contractors; and (iv) selective direct exercise
of ownership by SPA.
39.   The decision to create SAMC is very recent; accordingly, the establishment
of this entity will take some time.  Preparations are under way to make it
operational, in line with the provisions of the draft Law covering its
establishment and with an initial work program and sufficient resources, as
quickly as possible. The draft law is currently expected to be adopted by mid-
1992 and requires the establishment of SANC and the start-up of its operations
within three months thereafter. The responsibility for timely preparation of the
necessary actions and elaboration of the organization and policies of SAMC has
been entrusted to a committee headed by the Minister of Finance and including the
Minister of Justice and the Minister without portfolio responsible for Ownership
Policy and Privatization. Upon its establishment, SAMC will finalize its work
program, including a timetable for the establishment of intermediaries, before
December 1992.   Both SAMC and SPA will be provided quickly with qualified
management and sufficient staff and other resources to carry out their functions
in a.cordance with the timetable for the transformation of SEs, and will operate
under clear statements of objectives and work programs.  They will also have
access to extensive domestic and foreign consulting services to carry out their
tasks. The Government will also encourage and facilitate the mobilization of
external funds for this purpose.
40. The ability of SPA and SAMC to carry out their respective ownership
functions is of key importance for the success of the ownership reform. To this
end, each of these institutions will prepare and implement an ownership
institutional development program (for SPA this will be separate from its overall
privatization development program), addressing such issues as the internal status
cf  the  ownership  administration,  staffing,  resource  requirements  and
availability, internal and external reporting and further development of detailed
ownership policies.
41. It will be important for both SPA and SAMC to utilize actively the boards
of the transformed SEs as the principal tools of corporate governance and
management oversight. Initially, the Government will draw on readily available
human resources in this regard, e.g., by reappointing members of existing
supervisory committees and by drawing on key managers in the enterprises
themselves, normally supplemented by at least one external member who would
typically be appointed board chairman. Thereafter, it intends for the ownership
organizations to move quickly to expand the number of external directors on most
company boards, with the goal of establishing a majority of external directors
on most boards. These measures will build in part on initial efforts already
undertaken by the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT) in this regard,
particularly concerning the identification of board members and the monitoring
of their activities.



-53-                         Annex 2
Page 14 of 26
IaJ&ptae esxacuins
42. Aprgach. Numerous SEs in Hungary require significant restructuring in
order to meet the challenges of the new market conditions. Typically, this will
include measures affecting sales, marketing, product spectrums and production
profiles, cost reductions, and quality enhancements. In general, while large
new investments will not be required at the early stages of this process, many
SEs will continue to suffer from financial problems.   The Government is
determined not to bail out enterprises as in the past or to engage itself in
restructuring, unless absolutely unavoidable. Rather, given its commitment to
the growing role of market mechanisms, the responsibility for restructuring will
lie with the enterprise managements themselves (for the transformed enterprises
under the direction of their boards of directors), who are expected to mobilize
financing directly from financial institutions or from the capital markets.
Where possible, SEs, including those with serious problems, will be sought to be
privatized as they are, thus leaving the responsibility for their restructuring
to their new private sector owners. However, in highly concentrated sectors,
decentralization will be pursued actively to facilitate privatization and
strengthen competition.
43.   The Government restructuring policy also stipulates that the new ownership
organizations, working through the company boards, will actively encourage the
transformed SEs to restructure systematically their operations, in particular
through the mechanism of annual performance targets that would be agreed between
the  relevant ownership  organization and the company boards.   Financial
restructurings (such as debt to equity conversions) may be undertaken as part of
a comprehensive program for an enterprise, where required to ensure its longer
term viability or to make it ready for privatization, but will not include the
infusion of new capital from government sources. Enterprises will be required
to mobilize their capital in the market on commercial terms.
44.   An enterprise-by-enterprise program development exercise has been carried
out by NIT, with the objective of segmenting the SEs according to privatization
prospects and restructuring requirements. This exercise has been very useful in
focusing the policy discussions on key issues, in utilizing information available
within various parts of the Ministry, and in identifying candidates for early
privatization. MIT's work program for 1991 builds in part on the results of the
segmentation exercise, in particular through a major study of loss-making SEs
that has just been completed. This study examined about 300 SEs, with a view to
developing a better understanding of the reasons for these losses together with
possible recommendations for policy and regulatory changes where appropriate, as
well as recommendations at the sector and enterprise levels that will be
communicated to the individual enterprises, inter alia, through MIT's
representatives on the enterprise councils, as l-ng as self managed SEs remain
in that form. A longer term monitoring of loss-v, "ring transformed SEs will also
be considered in this regard in consultation with SPA's ownership administration.
NIT's 1992 work program, which has now been prepared, builds, inter alia, further
on the results of the program development exercise and the ongoing study.
45.   Restructurina  Institutions.      The  Government  would  like  to  see
restructurings undertaken through the interactions between enterprises and the
financial sector; however, the latter is still not fully developed and there is



54-                         Anneu, 2
Page 15 of 26
a lack of institutions that can undertake engagements in enterprises on
commercial terms. The Government will therefore encourage the development of
such institutions. As a first step, it is promoting the establishment of a
restructuring and privatization investment corporation (RPIC), which on a profit
basis will take on ownership of selected SEs in difficulties, turn these around
through restructuring,  and then dispose of the shares at a profit.   The
Government wants to attract foreign capital (preferably in a majority position)
and professional management for this entity, which will be a precondition for its
establishment. Under this scheme, the Government would put equity in the form
of shares in state owned companies, plus a portion of liquid resources expected
to be mobilized from external resources (such as the EC PHARE program) on a grant
basis; no resources will be provided from the budget.   It is the Government's
target that this entity should be established in 1992. Consultants financed
under an existing Bank loan have developed a detailed business plan for the RPIC.
The selection of a professional lead investor is now under way;   this lead
investor will in turn play the leading role in the mobilization of investment
funds from other sources. On the basis of its experience with this entity, the
Government will subsequently consider to promote other financial institutions.
46.   Finally,  the Government has established with bilateral international
support an independent, non-profit foundation, the Hungarian Development
Foundation,   ('HUDEFO"),  that  will  provide  analytical  support  for  SE
restructurings, primarily through a service of low cost, focused enterprise-
specific strategic reviews ("quick-scans") that will provide impetus and
guidelines for the restructuring processes within the individual SEs. Initially,
this service will be offered to the enterprises identified for restructuring
under MIT's segmentation exercise. This approach is promising for promoting
enterprise restructurings, in that it will provide, at a modest cost for the SEs
concerned, assistance that is focused on the strategic requirements for the
individual SEs. HUDEFO was established in 1991 and will complete 50 quick-scans
during 1992, of which 15 by mid-year.   It will in this respect draw on the
experience from the six demonstration restructurings that have been initiated by
the Bank in the context of the proposed loan. (For these cases, existing Bank
credit lines were used to finance consultants under the first phase; for the
second phase, the technical assistance will be provided on a grant basis by the
EC PHARE program.) Depending on demand, the quick-scan services will be offered
also in the subsequent years. The Government will pursue actively the expansion
of the activities under HUDEFO, will take steps to mobilize substantial external
resources for follow-up technical assistance, and will in due course try and
develop further the activities of this foundation as a focal point for demand-
oriented restructuring services. The Government will review the progress of this
unit with the Bank from time to time.
47. Enterprise Liquidations. The restructuring of enterprises will involve
the liquidation of excess capacity and unproductive assets, reductions in
employment and changes in management. Bankruptcy and liquidation procedures are
therefore important restructuring mechanisms. Starting with the introduction of
a liquidation and bankruptcy framework in 1986, the Government has continually
taken measures to improve its effectiveness. These measures have resulted in an
increasing trend in the number of liquidations. Thus, the number of filings at
the Metropolitan Court grew from 604 between 1986-89 to 630 in 1990, and 1,268



-55 -                        Annx2LZ
Page 16 of 26
in 1991.  The number of completed liquidations increased from 246 in 1986-89 to
206 in 1990, and 480 in 1991.
48.  The Government aims to improve further effectiveness of the bankruptcy
system in line with its role in developed market economies. To this end, an
improved Bankruptcy Law was adopted by Parliament, and took effect in January
1992. This Law abolished the legal institution of refloatation by the state,
established specific time limits for the different stages of the bankruptcy and
liquidation procedures, and established a simplified procedure where the assets
are insufficient to cover liquidation costs. The Government has also established
objective criteria for eligibility of liquidators with the objective of
increasing the pool of liquidators.   Also, beginning in 1991 bankruptcy
proceedings are being initiated against any enterprise in arrears to the social
security system and the tax authorities for more than three months, and the
number of courts competent to deal with bankruptcy proceedings has been
increased. Finally, under the ownership reform the ownership organizations will
have as part of their mandate to pay special attention to enterprises that are
either having payment difficulties or are making losses, with a view to encourage
restructurings or to initiate closings of activities.    Financial discipline
should increase significantly from the recent adoption of the new Accounting and
Auditing Law and the Banking Law, which together will force creditors, in
particular banks, to recognize their loan arrears problems and thus put pressure
on them to step up loan collection efforts significantly. Up to now, this
pressure to a large extent had been missing.
49.   These measures are expected to speed up further the bankruptcy and
liquidation processes in Hungary: as a result, the number of filings and of
completed cases would increase significantly. This trend is already evident in
the first few weeks of 1992. The Government will monitor and review closely the
progress in this area. In particular, statistics will be compiled regularly on
the nature, size and origin of entities that enter bankruptcy or liquidation, and
number of resolutions.   The Government has agreed with the Bank on a schedule
for the monitoring of the aggregate figures for bankruptcy and liquidation cases.
Tne Government will inform the Bank of progress in this area on a half-yearly
basis, will review with the Bank the trends including impact on the banking
system, and will consider corrective actions, as necessary.
Program Ravie
50.   The Government's program for the reform of the SE sector is ambitious,
complex and will be implemented by a number of ministries, agencies and corporate
entities. In particular, the privatization component depends on actions at the
level of the SEs themselves, as well as to a very large extent on the actions and
attitudes of agents and, in particular, demand from the potential investors.
Economic and political developments may also affect the progress of the program.
For these reasons, we will carry out a special in-depth mid-term review together
with the Bank. Its purpose will be to ensure that a systematic examination of
all important aspects will take place. The terms of reference and institutional
mechanisms for this review have been agreed, and involve a regular schedule of
data gathering on all important aspects of the reform program, detailed case
studies by outside consultants of selected privatization cases, and a thorough
review by the Bank and the Government jointly of the status and progress of the



-56 -                         Annex 2
Page 17 of 26
SE reforms. On the basis of this review, we will examine with the Bank all
important aspects of the SE reform program, identify any constraints to its
effective implementation and take additional measures, as needed.
Cncl-usiong
51.   Important positive results have been achieved from our stabilization and
structural adjustment program, which give us confidence that we will now be able
to sustain and accelerate the reform process. Further pressures on Hungary's
economy will be exerted in the coming years by the adverse international economic
environment, the disruptions of the regional markets, and still cautious behavior
of the private international financial markets. Under these circumstances, it
is important for Hungary's economic development that the reform process be
continued vigorously. Hereunder, the reform of the present SE sector, with its
still dominant role in the economy, is of particularly crucial importance for the
modernization of the productive sectors of the economy and to re-initiate
economic growth. We therefore intend to move ahead rapidly and decisively with
the reforms affecting this sector, as described in this letter. The support of
the Bank has been very useful for the design of the SE reform program, and is
important also for the implementation of the program. We will monitor closely
the implementation of the SE reforms and the impact that these will have on the
economy. If necessary, and after consultation with the Bank, we will implement
further measures  to  accelerate  the  adjustment  process.    The  Government
appreciates the support that the Bank has provided us in our adjustment efforts
in the past, not only in the form of financial assistance but also through its
collaboration in important economic and sector work. We are confident that we
will be able to intensify further this collaboration in the coming years.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Mihaly Kupa
Budapest, March 12, 1992
attachment: ERL Policy Matrix



Poic  Ar{¢eja ari Obictives                                                     fL
1. NACROECONMIC EPICIES
1o stabilize the level of               Good inplatmetation of acro             Satisfactory macroeconomic              *Satisfactory  tro performance
exterl debt ani moderate                potcles lbut inflation remsatd          perfonmnce towards current              towards Indikators id tareets
inflation to single digits by      hlSh (35-37X) and 6DP declined               account and fiscat deficit              agreed ter SAL 2
adi 1993, aid ly the basis for          by r-9s  in 1991                        target agreed for 1991 under
sustained growth and enhanced                                                   SAL 2
access to external capital
flton
II.   m umVATATION
Strate
To privatize mst of the SE              Coprehensive strategy adopted
sector In the long tern with a          for rapid and efficient
target of redueciTn  the share of       privatization, focussing on the
SE gross assets to less than            orderly sale of coepetitive SEs
SO% of the conWpetitive sector          through aulti-track approach
by end 1994
SPA work program for 1992 widbr         Adoption of detailed SPA work           *Satisfactory progress towards
preparation                             program for 1992, including the         inpltmenting 1992 I ork program,
objective of coapteting by end          including towards reachfng 121
1992 privatizations equat to            target
PrIvatfzatIons completed for            121 of assets in caqpetitive
6.91 of competitive SE assets           sector since SPA establishment
*Adoption of detailed work
program for 19935 consistent
with a target of privatization
in 1993 of SEs with assts of
10X of total assets in the
coaetitive sector
Oroani zat ion
To strengthen SPA as the                SPA institutional development           Adoption of coqprehensive SPA           *Satisfactory ifpletentation of
Goversalent's privatization             program under preparation               institutional devetopment               SPA instittitonal development
agency together with the                                                        program focussing on staffing,          program
development of decentralIzed            SPA recruiting additional               technical assistance and
privatization mechnism to               consultants and long-term               internaL organization
eWpedite privatization progress         advisors
Ii
0 



Police Area MM oblectivs                Status                                   By Narch 19E 1                          B  Deeber 1992
Active Privati2stim
(a) To privatize rapidly                First Prfvatizatfon Program of                                                   Since September 1990: (C)
medium  to targeescaLe                  20 SUs With total asses of Ft.                                                   privatizatfoa  initiated of at
enterprises through SPA mwiaged         70 bitlion launched awd                                                          leost 60 enterprises  fth total
progr   NW speciat cases                advisors selected for each;                                                      assets of Ft. 300 biliton;  iff)
Second Privatfantion Program                                                    Privatization process defined
ano_nce  and 12 candidates                                                      for at least 40 enterprises
selected for Phase 1;                                                           with total assets of at least
construction and vineyard                                                       Ft. 200 billion; (ffi)
program  wuder way                                                              Privatizatfon process completed
(to the point of sale) since
Septamber 1990 for at least 25
enterprises with total assets
of Ft. 100 billion.
(b) To develop pipeline of              Close cooperation in place for           Identification of privatization
privatization candidates                privatization betmen SPA and             candidates for 1992 (from
sector ministries                       restructuring and enterprise
analyses)
Segmentatfon exercise in NIT                                                                                        °°
identified more than 100 SEs
with no signifieent obstacles
for early privatization
Retail Privatization
To privatize about 6.000 retail         Retail Privatization Law                Detailed program for 1992                Satisfactory i¢plementation of
outlets over 3 years and a              adopted                                  adopted with auctions to be             1992 program
further 3,000 units now under                                                   announced in that year for
ltese contracts within 6 years          Retail privatization unft               2,500 units
established in SPA
Auctions have been hetd for             Satisfactory implementation of          Detailed program for 1993
2,648 units of which 2,120 have         1991 program                            adopted with auctions to be
been sold                                                                       announced in that year for alt
remaining (about 1,500) units
Initial problems with lease                                                                                       d3
contracts have been resolved.                                                                                    OQU
0~
th
o



Poliev Area snd Oblectives              Status                                   BY March 1992                           Bv Deceober I992
Privet . otin
To facilitate enterprise-               Legat framework adopted, and                                                     Experierce through aid-1992
initiated privatizaticn urder           procedures estabtished In                                                        reviewed, and fremiewr,k
adequate contracts through              particular In areas of                                                           m ended, if required, fn order
trarsparent rules and                   evaluatlon and reporting                                                         to expedite the privetization
strei  lined monitoring                 criteria, cutoff points wnd                                                      process
procedures                              response time
Approved 84 cases in 1990 and                                                   Completed review of 400
246 cases in 1991                                                               proposals sinee January 1, 1991
Ouver-Initiated Privatization
to encourage privatization              Law now permits such                                                             Review completed of all buyers
initiatives by potential                privatization.  Poticy                                                           initiated proposals Or at least
purchasers                              formulated with response time,                                                   75 relevant proposals,
steps to encourage competitive                                                  whichever is less
bids, valuation requirements
and decision criteria. About
60-70 relevant requests wider
evaluation, 20 transactions
completed.
Decentralization through self-
Privatization
To decentralize and accelerate          SPA has finalized measures to                                                    irplementation of the easures
privatization of enterprises            expedite and decentralize                                                        to expedite and decentralize
with less than 300 employees            privatization process for smtl                                                   privatization process for salt      I
and assets and annual turnover          enterprises, including                                                           enterprises, including (1)
of less than Ft. 300 million            selection of e(igible advisors                                                   contracting advisors for first
for first list of 350 smalL                                                     list of sialt enterprises; (ii)
enterprises                                                                     review of experience of these
privatizations and redesign of
scheme as required; and (iii)
identification of eligible
advisors for a second group of
600 enterprises
£nm
To provide appropriate                  Two schems in place as of                                                        Review completed of experience
finanming of domestic                   March 1, 1991 to support both                                                   up to mid-1992l   and schemes
privatization to help                   large scale and retail                                                          modified as necessary to
development of local                    privatization                                                                    achieve objectives               0 t
entrepreneurs                                                                                                                                            ooX
x



eoti  Arts ,d   bttys rch 19                                                                        8v ecmer19
ectW-snecitf Is DrfIazat(on
Privatize, fn a phse  iimer,            Lega frimwork for mining               Submission to Goverment of              L8Y nd mode contrct approved
Sectors were spciel measures            including oIl and gas uder              draft Ninine Law (Including oSl         nd in opertfin and bidding
are raptrd prtor to                     adanced prepration                     and gse) providing for prfvate          proess for expleration acreage
privtitation                                                                   foreign Investment in mining,           iniffeted
ot snd ga  exptoration end
prodtion
Prospects for coumnetlasation
of poer sector under study.
Soeriet has decided to
trsform NNT Into copanr
form by end 1991
akfre sector portfolio Issues
reewaed
BU*ing privatization policy                                                    Banking privatization policy
under preparation                                                              forwutated
To implement accounting ad             Accounting and Auditing Law             Effectiveness of new Accowiting
auditiMn standards In tlne with         approved by ParLament                  nd Auditing Law
internatf0nat practfces
Dissemination program prepared                                                 Dise_ination program  compteted    0
and under apleemmntation
Leaat Devatoement
To strengthen the tegat                 Basic legislation In place            Review by comission of tegal
framework for transformation,          incLuding for transformation            practfces and requirements for
privatization and enterprise            and privatization                      privatization and ownership
4perations                                                                     reform completed and draft
Legislation (Laws on long-term
ownership, transitional
ownership, and amendments to
related Laws) approved by
Goveriment and subitted to
Parliament
o~r
00
a1%



PollcZ Area and Obiectives              Status                                            192                            S eceber
111.  D9WRSIP REFOR
Lticy and Organization
To establish policy and overell         *overrsent has amewunced its
development of the ownership            awership policy together with
framework and organizational            decisions on basie features of
framework for the exercise of           its orgonizational framework
Sr ownership                            for ownership of state assets
ifnludirg the appointnment of
,PA as responsible for most
state ownership In companies
under the Law of Economic
Associations, and the
identification of a narrow
number of longer term
overwuent ownership interests
to be controlled through a new
State Asset Management Coapeny
(SAMC) to be established.
Minister without Portfolio is
coordinating ownership and
privatizatfon policy issues
Law on assets owned by local
goNermuents, primarily Limiting
these to public services, In
place
ItP
N t
0
N: 
0'



Pol Icy Area and Obiectives             Status                                  By Yarch l99                           BY December 1992
Ci) To devetop institutions to         Draft SPA ownership                     (a) Adoption of initial (6-             *Ilplementation of initiat work
exercise offective professional         institutional program under            month) SPA work progrui for the         program
ownership over state                    preparation                             exercise of effective
enterprises                                                                    ownership, with specific steps          *Adoption of satisfactory
to implement                             mp eareensIe rain SPA
contracttng nehanism                   wonership ifpltenststion
(including patwied steps to            program, with detailed criteria
strengthen legal documentation,        and time schedeles of steps for
developing criteria for                (i)  ownership function
evaluating contractors, and for        development; (ii) selective
implementing a monitoring              establishment of holding
mechanism), to develop                 companies under SPA; (iii)
systematic policies and                encouragement of m_ngement
criteria for the exercise of           contractors; and (iv) selective
ownership including use of             direct SPA exercise of
coapany boards and holding             ownership
companies, and to prepare a
comprehensive subsequent main
(one-year) work program
Oecision taken to establish             (b) Adequate initial resources
SAMC                                   provided by Government for
ownership function of SPA
Inter-ministerial committee set        *SA4C established and in
up to prepare the detailed             operation with a satisfactory
establishment of SANC, with a          initial work program and
timetable for implementing             concomitant resources. Ubrk
actions                                program woutd include a
timetable for the rapid
establishment of intermediaries
under agreed criteria, a clear
delineation between SANC and
SPA, and appropriate
institutionat development
measures
(ii) To organize and staff             SPA's present portfolio                 Preparation initiated of                *Adoption and satisfactory
institutions under new                 management department in                detailed SPA ownership                  earty implementation of
ownership framework                     operation as nuctleus for               institutional development              comprehensive SPA ownership
expanded SPA ownership                 program                                 institutionat development
authority                                                                      program including upgraded         >
internal status, staffing.
Consultants being recruited to                                                 resources, reporting and         D
assist in preparation of                                                       further policy development         X
ownership policies and
institutional improvements                                                                                     0
_   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Poticy Area and obiecttves               Status                                    S    ac1B2 Li
Iransfu tafw
To transform alt state                   216 transformetimns already                                                        *TrasforumtIon since jwu  1991
enterprises  nto modem  ccpany           approved, and 636 urder                                                            of 400 SEs with gross assets of
foes urder Ilwsary's Lm  *f              evaltutimi by SPA                                                                  Ft. 500 bitlion, including
Economic Associations (possibly                                                                                             enterprises In th  fitst and
except for a few infrastructure                                                                                             second prlvatihation progrs,
and service sector enterprises)                                                                                             s te(s, SEs In the vineyard.
construction, and trucking
Industries, CXT and MNW, SEs
for tong-term state owiership
and SEs requesting
transformatlon
Goverevoent has decided on               Draft laws requiring
transformation of all SEs into           transformation of all SEs                Alt self-managed SEs and almost
companies by end of 1992, with           approved by the Government and            all state administered SEs
possible exceptions of some              subitted to Parliament                    transformed into companies
enterprfses that may remain in
state administered form
Break-up of OiL and Gas Trust
(OKGT) completed, including the
transformation into company
form of OIMT as well as the
establishment of 13 separate
companies outside of core
activities
Portfolio MPnaeement
To establish policies for the            Outline of poticies developed                                                     lIplementation of agreed poticy
effective magement of the                ard contained in Assets Policy
state portfolio (non                     Guidelines.  Agreed policy
controlling) assets                      formulated, covering principles
of profitability and
professinalm management
OQ
0
0%



Policy Area  and ObWeetives               StatLs                                   By Maech 1992                             b   Der  1992
lv. effo$F,l£IP"CTN RIN             -
to provide framework for                 Substantial program denelopment           Agreement on NIT work program            Carrying out of 1992 work
restructuring to be carried out          completed based on segmentation           for 1992                                 program
iwere SEs cannot f irat be               analysis for industrial
privatized, with the aim of ti)          enterprises under MIT, covering                                                    Agreement on work program  for
making SEs ready for                     about 600 enterprises, In order                                                     1993
privatitation and (i1)                   to identify priorities.  NIT
improving operations of SEs              enterprise restructuring policy
that wilt remain in the state            for 1991 established and under
sector                                   satisfactory impletentation,
including study of loss-making
enterprises in order to
identify possible steps at the
SE, regulatory and policy
levels
Instftutionat
To estabtish institutions to             Review completed of finmil                                                         Establishment of RPIC
support restructuring based an           report by consultants recruited
commercial (profit) criteria             to prepare framework for
Restructuring and Investment
Finance Corporation (RPIC)
Recruftment of lead investor                                                                                            co
under way with EBRD support
Initiate systematic                      Foundetion (iIUDEFO")                                                              *Foundation in operation with
restructuring with larger                established with initial                                                           satisfactory work program
nmuner of SEs through                    bilateral financial support,                                                       through 1993 and first 15
establishment of autonomous              inter alia, to undertake                                                           "quick-scan restructuring
restructuring unit                       restructuring diagnoses for                                                        diagnoses completed by mid 1992
about 50 SEs per anrua
Fifty Nquick-scansf completed
Snecial Sectors
To establish reconstructed coal          Pit closures program in place.                                                     Program adopted for financial
company structure, with self-            Three coal companies in                                                            restructuring of coal mining
supporting companies                     bankruptcy proceedings                                                             sector, to be carried out upon
completion of bankruptcy
proceedings
Direct Restructurina
Restructuring of up to 6                 Programs prepared for the                                                          Continued support toward
enterprises with Bank support            participating SEs; consultants                                                     satisfactory progress in SE
completed the first phase                                                         restructuring including for        X a
assigments                                                                        enterprises being restructured  ( X
with Bank support
0
0%h



Poticy Area and  biectives              Status                 1                     esfter 1992 
Linuidation and Rankrustcy
To iuptement a revised                  New taw adopted by Parliawnt,            Effectiveness of new
satisfactory bankruptcy                 including an impoved structure           Liquidotion ard Bankruptcy LeW
frmmwrk                                 of priority umm  creditors 
steps to speed up procedures
Cered to 604 cases between              Agreed monftoring of                     Review of the liquidation and
1986-89, 630 and 1,268 cases            Liquidations and bankruptcy             bankruptcy proce
filed in 1990 and 1991,                 cas
respect ivetly
Objective criteria established
for eligibility of liquidators
to encourage a significant
increase in their nmdber
V. PROGRAL REVIEW
To establish mechanism for              Draft terms of reference for            Terms of reference and review            *Review completed followed by
systematic in-depth mid-term            the review under preparation            mechanism agreed                         consultation between the
review between the Government                                                                                            Government and the Bank on the
end the Bank of enterprise                                                                                               recomendetfions of such review;
reform process in order to                                                                                               the subsequent actions to be
ensure that program adjustments                                                                                          taken to liplement the Progera m
can be made  if required                                                                                                 adopted by the Government
adequately reflecting the
results of such consultation
*Proposed core conditions for
Second Tranche release
OQ :
0
0%



-66 -                            Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGQRY
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION (ERP) LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare loan:                              Fifteen months
(b)  Responsibility for project preparation:                  Government/Bank
(c)  First Bank mission:                                      September 1990
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:                             February 1991
(e)  Negotiations:                                            February 1992
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                           April 1992
Section II:   Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Section IL: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness and Release of First Tranche (SlOO million)
None
(b)  Conditions of Second Tranche Release (SlOO million)
The release of the second tranche of the loan will be based on the following
actions and results:
(a)   Macroeconomic:   Satisfactory  macro  performance   towards
indicators and targets agreed under SAL 2 (para 24).
(b) Privatization:
(i)   Satisfactory progress in the implementation of SPA's
institutional development program and 1992 work program,
including towards reaching the target of completing by
end 1992 privatizations of SEs with assets accounting
for 12 percent of assets in competitive sector since SPA
establishment (para 66);
(ii)   Adoption  of  detailed  SPA  work  program  for  1993,
including a target of privatizing in 1993 SEs with
assets accounting for 10 percent of total assets in the
competitive sector (para 66).



.67 -                              Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Stens to strengthen ownershig and governance:
(i)   Transformation since June 1991 of at least 400 SEs with
total assets of Ft. 500 billion (para 69);
(iU) Satisfactory implementation of SPA's initial ownership
work program and adoption of a detailed SPA ownership
implementation program (para 77); and adoption and
satisfacto,ry   progress   in   implementation   of   a
comprehensive SPA ownership institutional development
program (para 78);
(iii) Establishment of State Asset Management Company (SAMC),
which should be in operation with a satisfactory initial
work program (para 79).
(d)   Lw_tructuring:
(i)   HUDEFO (enterprise restructuring and promotion agency)
should be in operation with a satisfactory work program
through 1993 and should have completed its first 15
restructuring diagnoses (para 86);
(ii) Joint review of the liquidation and bankruptcy process
(para 89);
(e) Program Review:
(i)   Completion of review of the implementation of the
program, consultation between the Government and the
Bank on the iecoumendations of this review, and adoption
by the Government of subsequent actions to implement the
program adequately reflecting the result of this
consultation (para 93).



-68 -                                      Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRXSE REFORM LOAN
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
A.   SArE-MENT OF BANK LOANS Al
(As of December 31, 1991)
vsa Million
Loan    Fiscal                                                                (Less Cancellations)
So.     Year           Borrower                  Prolect                        Loan      Undisbursed
Fifteen Loans Fully Disbursed, including six 5-Loans                         1,202.9
Of Which: SALn. 8EZALs and Protram Loans
2965    1988    RepubLic of  ungsary         Ind. Sector Adjustment Loan        200.0
3328   190    Nat'l Benk of Hungary         Structural Adjustment Loan I       200.0
Total FuLly Disbursed SAL, SECAL and Program Loans            400.0
Loans Under Disbursement:
2697    1986    Republic of Hungary          Power                               64.0        23.2
2700    1986    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Ind. Restructuring I               100.0        12.1
2709    1986    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Ind. Energy Conservation            Z5.0         3.6
2738    1987    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Crop Production Improvement        100.0         0.1
2834    1987    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Ind. Restructuring II              150.0        41.6
2847    1987    Republic of Hungary          Telecommunications                  70.0        15.1
2936    1988    Nat'L Bank of Hungary        Agroprocesing Modernization        70.0        33.9
2966    1988    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Technology Development              50.0        27.9
3020    1969    Nat'l Bank of Hunasry        Ind. Restructuring UII             140.0       113.5
3032    1989    Republic of Hungary          Transport II                        95.0        65.7
3055    1989    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Energy Development (Conserv.)       10.0         7.7
3056    1989    Nat'l Oil & Gas Trust        Energy Development (Oil & Gas)   100.0          85.8
3191    1090    Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Financial Systems Modernis.         66.0        50.6
3229    1990    Nat'l Bank of tungery        Integrated Agricultural Export   100.0          47.5
3264    1091    Hungarian Telecom. Co.    Telecommnications II                  150.0       140.0
3313    1891    Republic of Hungary          Human Resources Development        150.0       140.0
3347    1991 k/ Nat'l Bank of Hungary        Structural Adjustment Loan It    250.0         12500
Total                                     3,092.9 q/
Of which: Repaid                          342.2
Total now hold by the Bank                2.750.7
Total Amount Sold                              0.0
Of which Repaid:                             0.0
Total undiabursed                                      1.1S8.5 S/
M/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/I1A financed projects in
xecution, which is updated twice yearly - . circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
5i SAL/SECAL Loan.
g/ Includes the 8200 million ECO operation which was approved by the Executive Directors it July 1990.



- 69 -                                      Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRSE BEFORM LOAN
THE STATUS OF BANX GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1991)
Gross CoaMitments
Fiscal                                             Type of                       _US$ Million
Year                 Obligor                      Business                          Loan   Eauity   Total
1987             UNIC Bank                   Cossercial Banks                        -      3.23      3.23
1987              Lysine                     Prepared Animal Feed                   8.55   2.70      11.25
1988             Glass Wool                  Glass & Glass Products                 3.44   1.39       4.83
199              Glass Wool                 Non-Metallic Mineral Products           -      0.14      0.14
1989             Dunamont                    Plastic Materials                     28.64   3.76    32.40
1990              Dexter Mold                Plastic Materials                      2.97   0.94       3.91
1990              FHF                        Securities Market                       -      7.50      7.50
1990              FRIA                       Securities Market                       -      0.04      0.04
1990              Tetra Pak                  Paper Containers/Boxes                 7.40   3.18      10.58
1991              Budapest Bank              Multi-Purpose Baks                    26.36    -        26.36
l991             Magyar Suzuki               Motor Vehicles                        33.35   6.52    39.87
1991              UMHB                       InvestmeUt/Merchant Banking             -      1.47      1.47
i992              Glass Wool                 Glass & Non-Metallic Mineral            -      0.50      0.50
1992              FANIC                      Insurance Companies                     -      2.57      2.57
1992              Unicbank                   Comaercial Banks                      10.00       -     10.O
Total Gross Commitments                                         120.72  33.93   154.64
Less:- Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments. Repayments.
Write-offs and Sales                                    11.27   0.01      11.28
Total Comaitments Held by IFC                                  1J9.45  33.92   143.36
Total Undisbursed                                                63.04    3.57   66.51
Total Outstanding                                                46.40   30.35   76.75
Rkm D6199.2
Fdmmq 4~ 1992



FORMER
H U N G  A R Y                                                                  CZECHOSLOVAKIA                               SOUNIET
0       ~~40        a0                                                 UNION* 
LIRBAN AREAS                  R-A- RO ADS k
eSELECTED TOWNS         -        RAILROADS. 
/FMEGYE CAPITALS                  EGYE (COUITY) BOUNDARIES                       g                         {lujh,i
NAMONAL CAPITAL                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES i .  f
%   TfS>t.<
,? X < W , To
u  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EYHAZAdm<Nf
AUSTRIA                                                                                                                             SON w t ST 
nZALAEGEN\  . + t    ! - -\,                                   > _a  ];    ~~~~ROMNIA
<_ T ( SZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGED                                                                                  .GNPLAND 
bZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o \ t 9 / Z
} > AUSrRIA NGAR5{ 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
k~~~~~~f               d, .*v YL*OSIAVLA  



