Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15814
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE REFORP LOAN
(LOAN 3459-HU)
June 27, 1996
Country Operations Division
Country Department 2
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US Dollar Equivalents
(Forints per US$)
Average Annual
1991          74.74
1992          78.99
1993          91.93
1994          105.16
1995          125.7
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APVRt         -      State Privatization and Holding Company
AVU           -      State Property Agency
AVRt          -      State Holding Company
CMEA          -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD          -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFSAL         -      Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EIB           -      European Investment Bank
EU            -      European Union
ERL           -      Enterprise Reform Loan
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
HUDEFO        -      Hungarian Development Foundation
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
NBH           -      National Bank of Hungary
PHARE         -      Poland-Hungary Assistance for Economic
Reconstruction
SAL           -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SAMA(s)       -      State Asset Management Agency(cies)
SEs           -      State Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Enterprise Reform Loan
3459-HU
CONTENTS
Preface ......................................................
Evaluation Summary .......................................................
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ........................                                     .............................1
A.   Statement of Objectives .....................................................                                        1
B.  Achievement of Objectives ....................................................2
C.   Major Factors Affecting Project ....................................................3
D.  Project Sustainability .......4.............................................4
E.  Bank Performance ....................................................                                                 S5
F.  Borrower Performance ....................................................S5
G.  Assessment of Outcome .....................................................6
H.  Future Operation ....................................................9
I.  Key Lessons learned .....................................................9
PART II.  STATISTICAL TABLES ..................................................... 11
Table 1: Summary of A ssssments ....................................................                                     12
Table2: RelatedBankLoans/Credits ....................................................                                    13
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................                                          15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement.: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..........................15............ I
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants ........................                                                               16
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................                                                           17
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions ........................                                                               17
Appendices:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR ............................ 18
B. Second Tranche Release Document ............................ 20
C. Mission'sAideMeomoim ............................                                                                               28
dThs document hu a re*ueted distribution  nd may be used by recipients only In the perfomance of their
o Mcic   duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorizaton, 






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Enterprise Reform Loan
3459-HU
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Enterprise Reform Loan in
Hungary, for which a loan in the amount of US$200 million equivalent was approved on April 7, 1992,
and made effective on May 8, 1992.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully
disbursed by June 30, 1993; the second tranche was released on October 13, 1993, and the loan was fully
disbursed by January 10, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Mihaly Kopanyi, senior economist, Hungary Resident Mission, and
reviewed by Michel Noel, Division Chief, Country Operations Division, and Jane Loos, Project Adviser,
Central Europe Department. The borrower provided comments that are included as appendices to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission (June 20-23,
1995). It is based on material in the project files and other related Bank documents. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and
commenting on the draft ICR.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Enterprise Reform Loan
Loan 3459-HU
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
(i)    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focused on
supporting the country's program of structural adjustment to make the economy more efficient, flexible,
market responsive and competitive in external markets. The Bank has been heavily involved in the
enterprise sector and has provided assistance in formulating a medium-terrn sector strategy as well as
support through nine lending operations. This includes five lending operations which are relevant to this
Loan: the First and Second Industrial Restructuring Projects, which closed in June and September 1993,
respectively; the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL), which closed in June 1991; the Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL I) which closed in June 1992; and the second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II)
which was closed as of December 31, 1994. The Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL) was approved in 1992, and
aimed at complementing the SALs by supporting fundamental reforms of the enterprise sector focused
squarely on ownership and privatization.
Project Objectives
(ii)   The Government's enterprise reform program which was supported by ERL had two principal
objectives. First, it sought to establish effective ownership for all enterprises, either through rapid
privatization or through the establishment of effective corporate govemance by the state. Second, it sought
to encourage decisive restructuring in order to speed up adjustrnent to new market realities and productivity
growth. The program was to be implemented in parallel with the macroeconomic and regulatory reforms
supported by the IMF s 1991 Extended Arrangement and the Bank's SAL II. The ERL had two main groups
of objectives: (a) commercialization and privatization of state enterprises; and (b) enterprise restructuring,
within the context of an improved bankruptcy and liquidation framework (paras. 1-5). The loan was
expected to be instrumental in both the conceptualization and the detailed design of the integrated enterprise
reform program.
Achievement of Objectives
(iii)   The Government did meet all of the targets specified under the ERL (as defined by tranche release
criteria under the loan): (a) the commercialization of SEs was completed; (b) 54 percent of state equity in
the competitive sector was divested by end-1994; (c) bankruptcy and liquidation procedures became
predominant tools in enterprise restructuring; and (d) institutional development programs for AVU, AVRt
and HUDEFO were implemented (paras. 6-9). The ERL did not address the sectors defined then as "non-
competitive" (basically large utilities), because the Bank and the Government agreed that it was essential to
develop an appropriate regulatory framework for the privatization of these sectors. It took nearly two years
(from early 1994 to end 1995) for the Government to develop a proper regulatory framework, to implement
the necessary price adjustment and to substantially reduce the levels of minimum mandated State holdings
in the infrastructure enterprises. The completion of these tasks enabled the Government to regenerate the
privatization drive with the sale of many large utilities at the end of 1995. By early 1996, more than 75



ii
percent of GDP was being generated by the private sector, only one third of initial State equity remained to
be privatized. and foreign private participation in utility companies and the banking sector exceeded 40
percent and 50 percent of capital respectively.
(iv)   Certain shortcomings adversely influenced project implementation between 1992 and 1994.
Management initiated enterprise restructuring remained sporadic, reorganizations by bankruptcy procedures
remained insignificant, several Government approaches to resolution of troubled enterprises failed to meet
their objectives. Commercialization of state enterprises was crucial but not sufficient for strengthening
corporate governance. Many managers adopted a wait-and-see attitude and delayed critically needed
restructuring, further exacerbating the poor financial situation of most SEs. The supervisory boards did not
always uphold the rights of the majority shareholder, the Hungarian State (para 10). The pace of
privatization was hampered by annual policies on State asset management under which SAMAs had to
operate (e.g., politically acceptable floor price, employment level, majority ownership retained by the
State). SAMAs faced several competing objectives, and they were further handicapped by lack of continuity
in having three sets of top management over a three-year period.
Sustainability
(v)    The ERL supported reforms on enterprise governance, privatization and restructuring in a period
when Hungary was experiencing a deep recession with large fiscal and current account deficits. The
previous Government's macro economic policies were not applied consistently, and failed to attack the root
cause of low growth and widening internal and external disequilibria. In March 1995, the new Government
announced a set of measures aimed at stabilizing the economy which have led to an invigoration of
structural reforms, and cuts in fiscal expenditures, and which have improved Hungary's position in the
international capital markets. By 1995, gross enterprise losses had declined significantly (to an estimated 4
percent of GDP from 14 percent of GDP in 1992); banks refrained from financing losses; and foreign and
joint venture firms became predominant in exports. The improvement of the legal framework and
regulatory regime led to the breakthrough in the privatization of the utility sector (paras. 13-15). The new
Government engaged in a major program to accelerate the pace of privatization and banking sector reforms
supported by the EFSAL.
Bank and Borrower Performance
(vi)   The Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. There were no
significant deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project implementation, and project supervision was
adequate. The Bank team was well rounded and encompassed several specialists in different aspects of
privatization. The Bank was also successful in coordinating the assistance of EU-PHARE and utilizing
Japanese Grant funding for technical assistance for enterprise restructuring efforts. The Bank had a positive
impact on both the conceptualization and design of the program (paras. 16-18). The overall performance of
the Borrower and the concerned Government agencies (NBH, AVU and AVRt) was satisfactory in all
phases of the project cycle (paras. 19-20), as was compliance with all main loan covenants.



iii
Asssment of Outcome
(vii)   Hungary's State ownership was initially exercised by AVU and AVRt. However, in mid-1995, this
task was taken over by APVRt with the purpose of consolidating the shift towards expanded privatization.
AVU had a reasonable privatization and restructuring record. It successfully commercialized all of the SEs,
privatized 75 percent of its initial holdings in enterprises, liquidated more than 300 SEs and played a
significant role in enterprise restructuring (para 23). At the time of establishment of APVRt, about HUF
254 billion of AVU's initial holdings in 665 enterprises was still to be privatized, but those were mostly SEs
of lower quality. A concentrated effort will be necessary to divest these enterprises. AVRt's record in
privatizing State assets was poor (9 percent of its initial portfolio by mid-1995). This was due to the
previous Government's policy of retaining sizable long-term State ownership in a wide range of enterprises,
primarily in large utility companies (para 26). However, the pace of privatization has accelerated under the
new privatization act which was adopted in mid-1995 and which made it possible for APVRt to
immediately privatize about half of the energy and telecom enterprise portfolio in the second half of 1995.
High priority is being given by APVRt to privatization of the remaining large strategic enterprises.
(viii) Hungary has made tremendous progress in developing a working bankruptcy system as a vehicle
for restructuring the enterprise sector. A tough new bankruptcy law (which took effect on January 1, 1992)
led to a wave of filings. There were 27,500 liquidation cases in three years (an unprecedented number in
the region). This process has captured a significant albeit not predominant share of large loss-making
enterprises. Liquidation has remained the overwhelming court procedure, since court-led restructuring has
not played a very important role (para 27). The law was amended in September 1993, to remedy the
deficiencies observed in the first 18 months of practice. The Government is in the process of preparing
further modifications to the bankruptcy and liquidation framework which would leave intact the thrust of
the existing working system, but would substantially enhance the incentives of bank creditors to file for
liquidation of non-viable borrowers.
(ix)   From today's perspective, it is clear that the ERL had a positive impact on the privatization process
in Hungary. The privatization targets (see Box. 1) were met; institutional development programs for AVU
and AVRt were implemented, albeit with mixed results; bankruptcy procedures were reviewed and
amended; and a vehicle for providing institutional assistance for enterprise restructuring (HUDEFO) was
established. Following the enterprise restructuring efforts made by several Government agencies and
business institutions, the role of leading enterprise restructuring was taken over by the commercial banks.
There were also other important manifestations of the successful reforms carried out by the authorities. In
response to the reform environment, by end-1995, about 200,000 private firms and 21,000 joint ventures
with foreign firms had been established, and cumulative foreign direct investment inflows exceeded $12
billion, the largest in Central and Eastern Europe (paras. 30-31).
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
(x)    The reforms undertaken under the ERL provided an important input to the on-going reform process.
The ERL was instrumental in the first stage of privatization (1991-1994), which was focused on
privatization of small and medium SEs; on improving the legal framework for enterprises; and on initiating
centralized enterprise restructuring. Lessons learned in implementing the reforms under the ERL also
provided important inputs into the second stage of reforms and privatization, supported by the EFSAL. This
second stage (initiated in 1995) incorporates, inter alia, a shift to privatization of utility enterprises; a shift
from Government restructuring to privatization of large SEs; a shift from centralized to bank led
restructuring; and a shift to bank restructuring and bank privatization. The invigoration of privatization
started with the adoption of a new privatization law which provides for a major broadening of the



iv
privatization base. It requires that majority State-ownership be maintained in only a limited number of
enterprises in public services (e.g., the nuclear plant, railways, etc.). The policy program of the new
Hungarian Government accords high priority to the acceleration of the privatization effort and the virtual
completion of privatization by the end of 1997. The Government also intends to implement a major
overhaul of public finances, which would be supported by the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan
(PSAL) currently under preparation.
(xi)   Some lessons that have emerged from this exercise and which could be relevant elsewhere are
(para 34):
(a)    In the case of publicly-owned enterprises, privatization is the preferred means of forcing
adjustment and maximizing the probability of the enterprise returning to profitability. In
many cases, the enterprises need to be reorganized through the bankruptcy process or to be
liquidated.
(b)    Work-out of troubled enterprises proved to be more difficult than expected. Although the
commercial banks were expected to act as agents in the work-out of financially distressed
enterprises, they were lacking expertise and facing narrow capital markets, and their
incentives to do so were limited. An earlier restructuring, privatization and strengthening
of individual banks, which is only now being undertaken and supported through the
preparation of the EFSAL, could have had a major positive impact on the restructuring the
enterprise sector.
(c)    The development of the regulatory regime for natural monopolies should be addressed as
early as possible. Enterprises in the utility and infrastructure sectors were not considered
under the ERL as part of the "competitive" sector. They were expected to be privatized
once a proper regulatory framework was in place. However, there was no specific
conditionality under the ERL to monitor progress in this field. It took two years for the
Government to complete all the prerequisites.
(d)    Another important lesson that emerged from the design of this project is the difficulty in
establishing targets that could be monitored effectively, when unclear definitional and
measurement problems exist, accompanied by unexpected magnitude of changes, and
exacerbated by lack of financial records and inadequate accounting systems (see Box 1).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Enterprise Reform Loan
Loan 3459-HU
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.      Statement of Objectives
1.      With the coming to power in 1990 of a democratically elected Govemment, the Bank's assistance to
Hungary entered a new phase. In support of the Govemment's objective of radical transformation to a
private, market economy, the Bank approved two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) focusing on
measures to increase competition in domestic markets, further trade liberalization and support social
reforms. A Government strategy was being implemented with the aim of handing over state assets
predominantly through market transactions in parallel with phased reforms of the legal system and
development of regulatory regimes. The Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL) was approved in 1992, and aimed
at complementing the SALs by supporting fundamental reforms of the enterprise sector focused squarely on
ownership and privatization.
2.      The Government's enterprise reform program which was supported by the ERL had two principal
objectives. First, it sought to establish effective ownership for all enterprises, either through their rapid
privatization or through the establishment of effective corporate governance by the State. Second, it sought
to encourage decisive restructuring in order to speed up the adjustment to new market realities and to
establish the foundation for long-term productivity growth. The program was to be implemented in parallel
with the macroeconomic and regulatory reforms supported by the IM's 1991 Extended Arrangement and
the Bank's SAL II. It was recognized in Hungary, as in the other Central and Eastern European countries,
that an efficient market economy required not only well-functioning product markets and incentives for
short-tern cost minimization, but also well-functioning asset markets and incentives for asset appreciation.
It was also recognized that such asset markets could not emerge unless there were long-term profit
maximizing owners operating in these markets.
3.      The program which was developed to achieve these objectives was outlined in the Govemments
policy letter dated March 12, 1992. Privatization was to be accelerated to reduce the share of state
enterprises (SEs) in the competitive2 sectors of the economy to less than 50 percent by the end of 1994. In
parallel, effective corporate governance was to be introduced in all SEs, starting with their conversion into
Hungary started a centrally managed privatization program in 1990. The Privatization law stipulated that all State
enterprises should be corporatized prior to their privatization, and State assets were to be privatized mainly for cash. In 1990,
virtually all State enterprises were taken over from line ministries by State Asset Management Agencies (SAMAs): the State
Property Agency (AVU), the State Development Institute (AFI), followed (in 1992) by the State Asset Management Co. (AVRt).
In 1995, all the privatizable state assets were concentrated into the State Privatization and Asset Management Company
(APVRt).
2  Competitive sector was defined to comprise those non-agricultural subsectors where: (i) enterprises would be expected to
operate for profit (thus excluding social services, cultural activities, defense and education, natural parks, special R&D units); and
(ii) a reasonable element of competition is present or could be expected (thus excluding namiral monopolies such as electricity,
water supply, public transport and telecommunications). Due to definitional and judgmental issues, the financial sector was also
excluded.



2
company form in order to facilitate and accelerate the privatization process and, in the interim, to resolve
decisively the problem of the "absent" owner. Restructuring was to be encouraged through new market-
oriented institutions and improved implementation of the liquidation/bankruptcy framework.
4.     In order to support the Government's enterprise reform  program, the ERL had two main
objectives: (a) commercialization and privatization of state enterprises; and (b) enterprise restructuring,
within the context of an improved bankruptcy and liquidation framework. Through close cooperation
with the Government in the course of preparation of the ERL, the Bank was instrumental in both the
conceptualization and detailed design of the integrated SE reform program for privatization, enterprise
governance and restructuring. The success of the program was considered critical by both the Bank and
the Hungarian authorities to the transformation of the Hungarian economy and its overall economic
prospects.
Boxl. Establishment of Privatization Targets for:the ERL       .  ... . ... . .
The calculation of state assets targeted for privatization from the outset was co plcte biy ral
definitional and measurement problems. The privatization target was generally sti ters of t s
referred -to as thte"competitive sector', ad in spite of relative consensus on fits: definition, there:were soe
disagreements over the activities this comprised. Aggregate.enterise statistics:focused on: gros aslsesand
did not show figures for debt or equity. Accounts of State enterprises contained numerous si
including under-valuation (or non-inclusion) of land and lack of provisions/write-offsir b  and d
debts and inventories. These distortions were addressed&by estimating the fair marketvalue of theasto
,Ss .when they were transformed into new joint stock companies :withcreation 1of .the inbaae"
sheet. Several hundreds of de-novo companies were created frm units carved,-out of lgSEV complexes
AVUs starting (untransformed) portfolio consisted of 1857 SEs and about HUE 1,650 biion   .Of
Stat assets. However, at the time of ERL preparation, AV U still did not havea consolidatediacui
system nor sufficient computer system, because itstmandatee was considered:to.:be i:limited tto: rad
management of privatization. By the end of 1992, on onone quarter ofthe SEt': had. bee  corporutied
Taking these constraints into account and based on the datasuitted -by; thevariousl miires, the Bank
estimated the assets of the competitive sector to: be of the order of IHUF 20O) billi on. Byt d194,
virtually all of the SEs had been corporatized or liquidated without transformation. AVs releva4initi
portfolio for ERL purposes (with the inclusion of interim transformations .and;S asset revaluaions)~taii
realistically be estimated as HUF 2,575 billion in equity holdings ofwhich HUF 1,130 billion were in te
competitive sector and HUF 845 billion in the non-competitive sector Divestiures byend-I994 included
HMUE 936 billion of equity in enterprises in the competitive sector,::and H.UF61 billion in the non-
competitive sector. Therefore, more than 54E percnt of the competitive see.ots initial state asst wer
divested by both the AVU and AVRt by end-1994 (seeTable 1.1).
S.     There were significant difficulties and risks associated with the program. The reforms were
unprecedented in their ambition and success depended heavily on the performance of government
institutions that were already struggling with numerous responsibilities. The program tried to deal with this
constraint through a gradual build-up of responsibilities, institutional development technical assistance
linked to restructuring, and measures to decentralize activities. The Government was also expected to face
growing social and political pressures from rising unemployment, exacerbated by the sharp decline in trade



3
with ex-CMEA markets, particularly the former USSR. To ease the transition, the Government was
expected to improve unemployment insurance and social assistance, promote new business ventures, and
enhance the functioning of the labor market, assisted by SAL II and the Human Resources Project approved
in mid-1991.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
6.     The Government did meet all of the targets specified in relation with the ERL (as defined by the
tranche release criteria under the loan): (i) the commercialization of SEs was completed; (ii) more than 50
percent of state equity in the "competitive sector" was divested; (iii) bankruptcy and liquidation procedures
became predominant tools in enterprise restructuring; and (iv) institutional development programs for AVU,
AVRt and the Hungarian Development Foundation (HUDEFO) were implemented. There were also other
important positive developments, such as the emergence of a large number of private firms (200,000), the
largest foreign direct investment inflow in Central and Eastern Europe ($12 billion from 1989 to 1995), and
the surge in joint ventures with foreign firms (21,000) (see para 31).
7.     The developments which took place under the ERL facilitated the revitalization of privatization and
the breakthrough in enterprise restructuring which started in conjunction with the preparation of the
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) in the second half of 1995. By the end of 1995,
SAMAs had established 1634 joint stock companies from the initial 1299 SEs and an additional 466 SEs
were liquidated without transformation. New opening balance sheets were prepared for these companies,
based on international accounting standards. The previous accounting distortions were eliminated, and the
aggregate book value of the State assets increased significantly this way (Box 1). By second tranche release
of the ERL (end-1993), half of the initial portfolio (924 SEs) had been transformed. After a slow down in
1994, the pace of privatization accelerated and at the end of 1995, only 32 percent of initial State equity
remained to be privatized, beyond the assets mandated to be retained by the State. About 60 percent of
State equity in the competitive sector (overall 53 percent) and virtually all retail outlets were privatized by
end-1995: Foreign private participation in utility companies and the banking sector increased significantly
to levels exceeding 40 percent and 50 percent of capital respectively, by the end of 1995.
8.    The initial privatization program did not include a large share of the State's equity holdings
(amounting to $8 billion), because of the Government's decision at that time to retain substantial State
ownership in the large energy and infrastructure enterprises (defined then as the "non-competitive" sectors),
and the statutory limits which were placed on such privatization. The Bank's advice on this issue was that
the privatization of these sectors should take place within the framework of a credible, enforceable and
predictable regulatory regime. A very difficult and sensitive precondition of the privatization of these
utilities was the elaboration of a politically acceptable price adjustment program with the aim of providing
moderate profitability for the enterprises. To accomplish this, a more than one hundred percent price
increase was required for the household price of gas, electric energy and telephone services. It has taken
nearly two years for the Government to develop a proper regulatory framework, to implement the necessary
price adjustment, and to substantially reduce the mandatory required holdings in the infrastructure
enterprises through the new privatization law adopted in mid-1995. Following these reforms, about 42
percent of State equity in the non-competitive sector was privatized in the second half of 1995.
9.    Restructuring of troubled enterprises has taken place in a number of ways. In the 1992-1995 period,
5,500 bankruptcy and 27,500 liquidations were initiated. One third of the SEs in number, representing more
than 7 percent of initial state holdings by value, were liquidated, with the inclusion of a significant albeit not
predominant share of large loss-making enterprises. By the end of 1995, seven large SEs (e.g.,
Borsodchem, TVK) were successfully restructured. However, a significant amount of revenue was spent on



4
financial restructuring of non viable SEs without clear privatization targets. SAMAs were often adversely
influenced by line ministries. The low efficiency of centralized restructuring programs led the Government
to the conclusion that decentralized work-outs of troubled debtors implemented by the banks would be a
more appropriate approach. At the start, however, commercial banks were not financially and institutionally
able to be the engine of work-out activities. Further modifications also had to be made to the bankruptcy
and liquidation framework, leaving intact the thrust of the existing working system, but substantially
enhancing the incentives of banks and state creditors to file for liquidation of non-viable borrowers. The
restructuring of the banking sector and shortcomings of the bankruptcy liquidation framework are being
addressed through the proposed EFSAL.
10.   Several shortcomings adversely influenced project implementation. Commercialization of SEs,
which placed them on the same legal basis as private enterprises, has been crucial but not sufficient for
strengthening corporate governance. Many managers adopted a wait-and-see attitude, and delayed critically
needed restructuring, further exacerbating the poor financial situation of most enterprises, while the
supervisory boards did not always uphold the rights of the majority shareholder, the Hungarian State.
Management initiated enterprise restructuring remained sporadic, bankruptcy procedures continued to play
an insignificant role in enterprise restructuring, centralized enterprise restructuring was spoiled by line
ministries. At the level of the project, the pace of privatization was hampered by various legal constraints
and by annual policies on State asset management under which SAMAs had to operate (e.g., politically
acceptable floor price, employment level, majority ownership retained by the State, mandatory asset
transfers to semi-state institutions). In addition, SAMAs had several competing objectives and were further
handicapped by a lack of continuity because of the turnover of three sets of top management over a three
year period. The new privatization law and the business policy of the State Privatization and Asset
Management Company (APVRt) have provided a much better framework for Hungarian privatization.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.    Several internal and extemal factors had a strong influence on Hungary's growth performance and
the pace of privatization over the life of the ERL project (1992-1994). Exogenous shocks were, in part,
responsible for the decline in output in Hungary. Economic activity was severely affected by the collapse
of the CMEA, by major droughts in 1992-93 which affected agriculture output and by the UN sanctions on
Yugoslavia which had a major impact on transport and other sectors. Moreover, the recession in Westem
Europe affected the outlook for Hungarian exporters. The pace of structural reforms slowed down and this
also significantly affected the performance of key economic sectors. The reduction of export subsidies and
the introduction of the bankruptcy law in 1992 forced interruption of several loss-making export activities,
which also contributed to the export collapse.
12.   After the wave of enterprise reorganizations and liquidations which swept the country in 1992,
restructuring and downsizing slowed down. Large enterprise losses financed through defaults on bank loans,
arrears to the State budget and Social Security, and arrears to other enterprises greatly weakened the
enterprise and financial sectors and contributed to the fiscal deficit. Thus, four large state banks became
troubled at the end of 1992 and became technically insolvent in 1993. The Government made several
attempts to resolve the problem of bad debts. A significant part of the total HUF 120 billion bad loan
portfolio, carved out from the banks during the Loan Consolidation Program in 1992, was resolved mainly
by liquidation, partially through secondary market transactions. The so-called 1993 Debtor Conciliation
Program proved to be an inefficient altemative to regular bankruptcy and liquidation procedures and was
cancelled by the Government in 1995. The huge bad loan portfolio, identified during preparation of the
latter program, remained a burden for the large state banks and is being addressed by the EFSAL.



5
D.    Project Sustainability
13.    The ERL supported reforms on enterprise governance, privatization and restructuring in a period
when Hungary was experiencing a deep recession with growing fiscal and current account deficits. Despite
launching a set of reforms aimed at accelerating the establishment of a market economy, the previous
Government's macroeconomic policies were not applied consistently, and failed to attack the root cause of
low growth and widening internal and external disequilibria. As a result, some macroeconomic targets
agreed as part of SAL II were not achieved (as evidenced by the cancellation of the third tranche). At the
end of 1994 it was evident that, without strong corrections, Hungary would have faced long-term
repercussions in terms of availability of foreign capital, growth, the continuation of the reforms, and the
process of integration with the EU. In March 1995, the Hungarian Government announced a set of measures
aimed at stabilizing the economy. These measures have been accompanied by an invigoration of structural
reforms and cuts in fiscal expenditures. The March 1995 package has already generated significant
improvements in macroeconomic performance, and restored Hungary's position in the international capital
markets. Continuing Government efforts are reflected in the 1996 Central Government Budget.
14.    Privatization and the first achievements of enterprise restructuring, in parallel with the improving
export market conditions, played a significant role in Hungary's macroeconomic performance in 1995.
Aggregate gross enterprise losses, which exceeded 12 percent of GDP in 1992, declined to about 5 percent
in 1995. Losses are expected to come down to 2-3 percent of GDP in 1996. In the 1992-94 period, while
hundreds of small and medium-size SEs were restructured through regular bankruptcy and liquidation
procedures, the restructuring of large, loss-making SEs remained incomplete. As a consequence of the
Government's strong bank restructuring efforts--supported by the EFSAL--banks stopped financing
enterprise losses, aside from some interest accruals on fully provisioned loans. There remains today only
some residual loss financing from tax arrears and from SAMAs (e.g., special development programs for
socially sensitive industries and geographic regions such as Borsodferr). Further Government and bank
actions aiming at accelerating the reorganization of potentially viable enterprises and the liquidation of non-
viable enterprises, which is crucial to sustaining the reforms undertaken under ERL project, is being
supported by the EFSAL.
15.    After progressing satisfactorily (in 1992-93), the pace of privatization slowed down and two-thirds
of State assets remained to be privatized at end-1994 (para 24). Revitalization of privatization was a
principal objective of the new Government. The new privatization law which became effective on June 17,
1095, provides for a major broadening of the privatization base through a radical contraction of the
mandated minimum State shareholdings in strategic enterprises. The privatization of major utilities was
facilitated by the 1994 gas supply and electricity laws, decrees on electricity and gas pricing issued in July
1995, and several consecutive price increases which started in January 1995. This improvement in the legal
framework and regulatory regime led to a breakthrough in the privatization of the utility sector in late 1995,
unprecedented in the region. The Government, with the assistance of the Bank, has launched a major
program to accelerate the pace of privatization and banking sector reforms supported by the EFSAL. The
current program targets the divestiture of virtually all State holdings in enterprises, except in a limited
number of public service enterprises in which long term State ownership would be retained over the 1995-
1997 period. After the very successful 1995 privatization, less than one-third of initial state shareholdings
remained to be privatized at the end of 1995.
E.    Bank Performance
16.    The Bank's performnance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. There were no
significant deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project implementation, and project supervision was



6
adequate. The Bank team was well rounded and encompassed participation by several specialists in
different areas of privatization. The project also benefited from the continuity of having the same team
involved in the project from its inception to the release of the second tranche. The project scope could have
been broader. As the project evolved, it became evident that the early inclusion of commercial banks as
principal agents in the work-out process of problem and debt ridden enterprises, could have eased the
burden of losses on the financial sector and accelerated the enterprise restructuring efforts.
17.   The Bank was successful in facilitating institutional development of the SAMAs and
commercialization of SEs, which was virtually completed by the end of 1994. The Bank was also successful
in coordinating the assistance of EU-PHARE and utilizing Japanese Grant funding for technical assistance
to enterprise restructuring efforts. During the implementation phase, several supervision missions visited
Hungary periodically to review all major aspects of the ERL reform program with the Government and the
concerned agencies. As required under the Loan, AVU supervised the preparation of a number of case
studies of state owned enterprises that were privatized. The Bank reviewed these studies and discussed
major conclusions (e.g., on improving valuation, tendering process, bid evaluation criteria, transparency of
the bidding process, etc.) with the AVU.
18.   The Bank's objective is to continue to support the systemic transformation process in Hungary.
Building on its long-term relationship with Hungary, and taking into account the recent activities of other
bilateral and multilateral organizations in the region, the Bank intends to coordinate its activities closely
with these institutions and to allocate resources in the most efficient and beneficial way. Bank activities are
expected to focus on three major areas: (i) restructuring and privatization of the enterprise and financial
sectors; (ii) public finance and public administration reform; and (iii) improvement of the social and
economic infrastructure. During this period, in addition to the EFSAL, the Bank plans to lend for selected
investment projects which increase efficiency of public expenditure, support environmental programs, and
improve conditions for private sector development.
F.    Borrower Performance
19.   The overall performance of the Borrower and the concerned government agencies was satisfactory
in all phases of the project cycle, as was compliance with all main loan covenants. As mentioned in pam
16, the project scope could have been broader which, in turn, would have accelerated the pace of
privatization. Along with the preparation of the new privatization law at the end of 1994, however, the
Government did change its views on opening up the restricted sectors for privatization, and also embarked
on a bank rehabilitation and privatization program, which is supported by the EFSAL.
20.   The cooperation and exchange of information between the Bank, NBH, AVU and AVRt was
excellent. During project implementation, several deficiencies with respect to the operational guidelines of
both AVU and AVRt that impeded the pace of privatization were identified. These were: (i) the lack of
operational guidelines for negotiations between enterprises and their creditors; (ii) the absence of a more
active policy of divestiture in the case where no credible buyers could be found; and (iii) recycling part of
privatization funds into doubtful restructuring programs. Most of these issues were addressed through the
frequent dialogue and supervision missions that the Bank had with its counterparts and are being addressed
within the context of preparation of the EFSAL.
G.    Detailed Assuesment of Outcome
21.   Hungary's State ownership has been exercised by several SAMAs. The State Property Agency
(AVU) was established in March 1990 to hold the State's ownership, to commercialize SEs and to manage



7
the privatization of virtually all State enterprises in all
subsectors. Subsequently, the State clearly defined the            Table 1.1: The Progrm of Privatbatfo
number of companies in which it wished to hold a                                1990-1994
longer-ternm  ownership.  In October 1992, and as a                                Number of      Book
condition under the ERL, the State Holding Company                                 Enterprie  Value of State
(AVRt) was set up, based on Act ,1113 of 1992, on the                                            Equity
"Management and Utilization of Entrepreneurial Assets                                          HUF billion
Permanently  Remaining  in  State  Ownership",  to           Ownership of State
manage holdings in enterprises in which the State opted      equityore
to  retain  a  minimum,  albeit  mostly  significant         AVU                     I,841        1,098
ownership stake. Even though it held fewer enterprises,      AVRt b/                   171        1,477
the value of AVRt's portfolio was larger than AVU's,         Others                     86          200
because it included the largest Hungarian enterprises,       subtotal                2,098        2,775
most of which were concentrated in the areas of energy,
infrastructure, industry and finance. By end-1994, the       Divested by AVU as of
Government learned that the pace of privatization            12/94
slowed down severely preparation of utility enterprises      liquidation               523         322
for privatization did not go well. Consequently, a new       sold 100 percent          653         206
Privatization Law, a new  privatization agency and a         sold partially            248          147
new  privatization policy was found as indispensable         subtotal                1,424         676
purpose to  consolidate the shift towards expanded
privatization.  In  mid-1995,  APVRt  became  the            Total Asset Sales
successor of former SAMAs with the mandate to                equity reduction as of     -           168
conclude Hungarian privatization.                            12/94
22.    In 1990, AVU's starting portfolio consisted of        Divested by AVRt. as of
1857 SEs. It did not have an aggregate balance sheet         luan3
covering its enterprise portfolio, at the time of ERL        liquidation               13 105
preparation (but a balance sheet was elaborated in the       sold 100 percent          2            1
course of AVU's institutional development program            soldpartially             23           138
under the ERL). By end-1995, virtually all the initial       subtotal                  36           153
SEs had been transformed into joint stock companies,
1299 SEs were corporatized, while 333 new companies          Total Divested as of       -          997
were established using units carved out from  SEs. In        12/94
addition, 630 SEs had been liquidated, of which 466
SEs  were  liquidated  without transformation  into          State Equity Portfolio
corporations.  Taking   into  account  all  of  the          managed by AVU and        823        1,578
transformations, spin-offs and asset revaluations, the       AVRt as of 12/94
SAMAs' combined  initial enterprise  portfolio  can          AVU                      665          254
retrospectively  be  estimated  as  including  2098          AVRt                      158        1,324
enterprises representing a total State equity holding of     ___after_Ing   __sfonnation_and___sfers
about HUE 2,775 billion ( Table 1.1).                        a/ after last transformiations and transfers.
b/ excludes AVRt shares in 10 financial institutions
(HUF 62 billion initial book value).
23.    As a part of the ERL and as a condition for the
release of the second tranche, institutional development     Source: AVU and AVRt
programs for both AVU and AVRt had to be adopted by
3 An additional Govemment Decree (126/1992) specified the state-owned entities which were to remain partially or
totally in State hands.



the respective Boards. This condition was complied with. In addition, AVU also carried out a
reorganization of its internal structure in response to the changes in the structure of its program. A full
review of compliance with second tranche release conditions is contained in Appendix 2.
24.    AVU had a reasonable record in privatizing State assets. More than 700 of its initial enterprises
have become fully private in the course of its operation. Total divestitures by AVU amounted to HUF 844
billion, or roughly 75 percent of its initial holdings in enterprises. These divestitures have included sales to
foreign and domestic investors primarily in cash, but also through subsidized credits provided to encourage
participation of the population e.g., so-called E-credits, installment payments, leasing, swaps for
compensation notes, and also liquidation (which have resulted in new private owners) and asset sales
(initiated by enterprises, and approved by AVU). Following a promising start, the pace of privatization
slowed down in 1994. At the time of establishment of APVRt, about HUF 254 billion (25 percent) of AVU
initial holdings in 665 enterprises was still to be privatized. A concentrated effort will be necessary to divest
these enterprises in view of their low quality. APVRt's commitment to undertake this effort is being sought
under the EFSAL.
25.    AVRt's record in privatizing State Assets was poor. By end- 1994, AVRt had divested HUF 153
billion of State equity, or only 9 percent of its initial holdings, primarily through partial sales of
enterprises (including divestiture of a 33 percent stake of MATAV telecom company -- the largest
telecom acquisition in the region), and a very limited number of liquidations. Although AVRt's poor
privatization records were partly due to delays in the start up of its operations, it was also due to the
Government's policy of retaining sizable long-term State ownership in a wide range of enterprises.
Indeed, these statutory minimum State holdings implied that AVRt could divest only 36 percent of its
total holdings. In addition, only HUF 240 billion (in 76 enterprises) or 18 percent of its holdings were
allowed by law to be divested down to a minority State holding. Moreover, most of the high value,
energy and infrastructure companies were not included in this group.
26.   Hungary's privatization was revitalized during the second half of 1995. When the new
privatization law came into force in June 17, 1995, all of the privatizable state assets were transferred
into APVRt and a new privatization program was initiated. APVRt's initial equity holding in enterprises
totaled about 1.6 trillion of which about HUF 400 billion was sold by the end of the year, and HUF 800
billion was still to be divested. About HUF 338 billion equity holdings will be retained by the State.
Large utilities represented the most valuable segment of the portfolio of APVRt which managed to sell
half of its equity stake in this segment by end 1995. The total amount of cash sales almost doubled since
end 1994, but this tendency is not likely to continue because less than half of APVRt's remaining
portfolio has the requisite quality. High priority is to be given for privatization of the remaining large
strategic enterprises. Small and medium enterprises are to be sold under a simplified privatization
scheme, while APVRt minority portfolios are to be offered to the existing private owners. Lower prices
and higher direct costs are projected in privatization of the remaining small and medium enterprise
portfolio, due to its unfavorable quality.
27.    Hungary has made tremendous strides in developing a working bankruptcy system as a main
vehicle for restructuring the enterprise sector, which has captured a significant, albeit not the predominant,
share of large loss-making enterprises. A tough new bankruptcy law, passed by Parliament in 1991, took
effect on January 1, 1992. The law had the effect of initiating automatic bankruptcy proceedings for any
enterprise that had overdue debts of more than 90 days. This aimed at eliminating inter-enterprise arrears
and improving financial discipline, by enforcing a "hard budget constraint" on enterprises. The law led to a



9
wave of filings for bankruptcy and liquidation.4 The law was amended in September 1993 to remedy the
deficiencies observed in the first 18 months of practice. Following these amendments, average monthly
filing for bankruptcy and liquidation decreased dramatically, from 170 and 760 before September 1993, to
around 13 and 400 respectively, after that date. The limited capacity of the courts delayed resolutions. In the
1992-1995 period, 5500 enterprises were filed for bankruptcy; of the 27,500 liquidation cases filed half
were closed due to administrative reasons, 7300 were announced by the court, and 4100 were still to be
investigated prior to announcement at the end of 1994. The completion of an average liquidation procedure
has required about 2 years.
28.    The decrease in the number of filings does not necessarily mean that all the 1993 amendments were
unjustified. The automatic trigger was a very stringent feature of the law, and the automatic moratorium on
overdue payments opened room for abuse by some managers who filed for bankruptcy in order to obtain
temporary relief from debt service. The Government is preparing modifications to the bankruptcy and
liquidation framework which will leave intact the thrust of the existing working system, but will
substantially enhance the incentives of bank creditors to file for liquidation of non-viable borrowers, and
improve the efficiency of the reorganization and liquidation procedures. This is to be achieved inter alia by
providing better creditor control over liquidators and the liquidation process, and by creating stronger
incentives for liquidators for conclusion of liquidation procedures.
29.    In the framework of the Industrial Policy, formulated by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in
1992, a program was developed to assist enterprise restructuring. The Government established the
Hungarian Development Foundation (HUDEFO) on a pilot basis with bilateral support (e.g., Dutch grant).
HUDEFO was established as an independent, non-profit foundation, financed partly by Japanese grant
funds, and aimed at providing inexpensive analytical support for the restructuring of state and private
enterprises. HUDEFO's activity was focused on enterprise-specific strategic reviews (quick scans) to
provide impetus and guidelines for the restructuring process of individual enterprises. By end-1994,
HUDEFO had provided analytical support for the restructuring of a group of 50 enterprises. In the period of
1994-1995, 1HUDEFO has also provided follow-up "help-line" and consulting assistance to about 30
enterprises from the first group of enterprises, in the areas of sales, marketing and finance and has initiated a
regional-level quick scan program for about 20 enterprises in the agro-industrial sector, water supply and
gas supply subsectors in Western Hungary. HUDEFO has recently started a turnaround management
program with the focus on subcontracting issues among real or potential suppliers of large international
joint venture companies in the light elecric industry.
30.    From  today's perspective, the ERL has had a positive impact on the privatization process in
Hungary. The privatization targets were met (see Boxl); institutional development programs for AVU and
AVRt were implemented; virtually all of former State enterprises have been corporatized; the bankruptcy
legislation was reviewed and amended; institutional assistance for enterprise restructuring (HUDEFO) was
established; and the legal framework and the regulatory regime were significantly improved. The enterprise
restructuring effort was less successful. In spite of technical assistance, management initiated out of court
enterprise restructuring remained sporadic. Operational restructuring of enterprises by bankruptcy
procedures remained insignificant. Several Government approaches to resolution of troubled enterprises
failed to meet their objectives; the 1993 Debtor Conciliation Program was an inefficient reorganization
4   From January 1992 through September 1993, there were 5,000 filings for bankruptcy (by managers), and 16,000 filings
for liquidation (mainly by creditors). Half of the total of filings ended up in "administrative closure", i.e. closure by court due to
formal inadequacy. By September 1993, the courts had announced a decision to proceed with about 3,300 reorganizations, or 60
percent of the bankruptcy cases. Roughly half of the cases announced by the courts had concluded at least temporarily with
agreements between debtors and creditors, and the rest has been followed by liquidation procedures. By September 1993, the
courts had also announced the decision to proceed with 4,200 liquidations.



10
alternative to court-led bankruptcy procedures and raised concerns of moral hazard. The low efficiency of
centralized restructuring programs led the Government to the conclusion that decentralized work-out of
troubled debtors implemented by banks is the more appropriate means of achieving the enterprise sector
restructuring goals.
31.    There were also other important manifestations of the reform efforts carried out by the authorities
such as: (i) the large number of new private firms which have helped push the private sector's share in GDP
to an estimated 65 percent in 1994 and above 75 percent in 1995; (ii) the average size of Hungarian firms
has shrunk, as the share of firms with less than 50 employees rose from 55 percent to 90 percent of total
firns while the number of firms with more than 300 employees fell from 19 percent to 2 percent of all firms
between 1989 and 1993; (iii) the largest foreign direct investment (FDI) inflow in all of Central and Eastern
Europe, with the cumulative stock of FDI increasing 30-fold from $190 million in 1989 to over $7 billion in
1994 and to about $12 billion in 1995; (iv) the surge in joint ventures with foreign firms, the number rising
from 1,900 at the end of 1989 to 21,000 by end-1995; and (v) the successful reorientation of exports from
the ex-CMEA countries to the advanced industrialized economies in the West, with the share of exports to
the EU increasing from 25 percent in 1989 to 50 percent in 1993, and to 60 percent by the end of 1995
(when about 70 percent of exports were produced by foreign and joint venture enterprises).
32.   In the 1992-1994 period, Hungary experienced a deep recession, and its economic transformation
was slowed by the accumulation of internal and external debt, with huge enterprise and bank losses. The
real economy's gross losses exceeded 14 percent of GDP in 1992. The system-wide losses which were
being experienced by enterprises were financed partially by arrears, and the bad debts were jeopardizing the
stability of the financial and enterprise sectors and economic growth. This created a huge burden on
commercial banks. As a consequence, credits to enterprises collapsed in real terms. Since then, however,
aggregate gross enterprise losses have decreased gradually. They amounted to 5 percent of GDP in 1995,
and are expected to decline further to about 2-3 percent of GDP in 1996. The enterprise reform program
initiated under the ERL and which is being extended and supported through the EFSAL, will help
accelerate privatization of all enterprises and speed-up corrective actions by the Government and the
management, owners, and creditors of loss-making or highly indebted enterprises to contain and reduce
enterprise losses. Due to successful corrective actions on bank restructuring, banks are no longer financing
losses aside from some interest accruals on fully provisioned loans. The bad loan portfolios are being
resolved with the growing contribution of secondary market institutions. By resolving the problem of
arrears to the banks, to the State, and to other enterprises, the corrective actions will facilitate the
privatization of viable State-owned enterprises on a going concern basis and will expand access of private
enterprises to new bank credit.
H.    Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
33.    The ERL provided an important input to the on-going reform process. The ERL was instrumental in
the first stage of privatization (1991-1994), which was focused on privatization of small and medium SEs;
on improving the legal framework for enterprises; and on initiating centralized enterprise restructuring.
However, lessons learned under the ERL also provided an important input for the second stage of reforms
and privatization policy, supported by the proposed EFSAL. This second stage (initiated in 1995)
incorporates, inter alia, shift to privatization of utility enterprises; shift from Government restructuring to
privatization of large SEs; shift from centralized to bank led restructuring; and shift to bank restructuring
and bank privatization. The invigoration of privatization started with the adoption of a new privatization law
which provides for a major broadening of the privatization base, through radical contraction of the
previously mandated minimum State shareholdings in specified enterprises. It requires that majority State-
ownership be maintained in only a limited number of enterprises in public utilities (e.g., the nuclear plant,



I1
railways, etc.) The policy program of the new Hungarian Government accords high priority to the
acceleration of the privatization effort and the virtual completion of privatization by the end of 1997. The
Bank has promised major support for the acceleration and expansion of this reform effort through the
preparation of the EFSAL which supports the Government's 1995-1997 enterprise and banking sector
program. The Government also intends to implement a major overhaul of public finances, which would be
supported by the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) currently under preparation.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
34.    Some lessons that have emerged from this exercise and which could be relevant elsewhere are:
i. Wherever possible, in the case of publicly-owned enterprises, privatization should be the
preferred means of forcing adjustment and maximizing the probability of the enterprise
returning to profitability. In many cases, the enterprises need to be reorganized through the
bankruptcy process or through out-of-court settlement or to be liquidated.
ii. Work-out of troubled enterprises proved to be the major problem in the 1990's. Government
programs on enterprise restructuring provided inefficient alternatives to work-out through
privatization or bankruptcy procedures. SAMAs successfully facilitated the privatization of
some enterprises together with financial restructuring of enterprises being divested. However,
significant amount of resources were also channeled to non-viable enterprises for purposes
unrelated to their privatization. Although the commercial banks were expected to act as agents
in the work-out of financially distressed enterprises, they lacked expertise and faced narrow
capital markets, and did not have the capital base and incentives to do so. An effort to achieve
significant restructuring, privatization and strengthening of individual banks early in the
process could have had a major positive impact on the pace of restructuring the enterprise
sector.
iii. The development of the regulatory regime for natural monopolies should be addressed as early
as possible, because the necessary framework for privatization of infrastructure takes a long
time to put in place. Enterprises in the utility and infrastructure sectors were not considered part
of the "competitive" sector (according to the definition agreed under the ERL) although they
could have been prime candidates for strategic foreign investors. They were expected to be
privatized once a proper regulatory framework was in place. However, there was no specific
conditionality under the ERL to monitor progress in this field. It took two years for the
Government to complete all the prerequisites, and privatization of these enterprises took place
in unprecedented magnitude and speed at the end of 1995.
iv Another important lesson that emerged from the design of this project was the difficulty of
establishing targets that could be monitored effectively, when unclear definitional and
measurement problems exist, accompanied by uncertainties on the magnitude of possible
changes, and exacerbated by lack of financial records and inadequate accounting systems (see
Box 1).



12
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial      Partial     Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro policies                       0i                            i               L i
Sector policies                    L                            L                 Li
Financial objectives                Li             L              0                2i
Institutional development                          Li            Li 0L
Physical objectives                 L              L             Fi
Poverty reduction                     i            Li            L 
Gender issues                       L              L             Li
Other social objectives             Li             Li            L
Public sector management            L                            Li
Private sector development                                       L                 L
Other (specify)                     L              L             L                 L
B. Project sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely              Uncertain
T                       1:L                    LiO
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                     Li                                               L i
Preparation assistance             L i                                              Li
Appraisal                          Li                                               Li
Supervision                          i                                              Li
D.Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                          i                                              Li 
Implementation                       i                     1                          i
Covenant compliance                  i                                                 i 0
Operation (if applicable)          Li                      Li                       Li
E. Assessment of outcome   Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Highly Unsatisfactory
Li                              Li                 Li



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                      Purpose                   Year of      Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
I . First Industrial      Support the restructuring of             1986       Closed
Restructuring Project   Hungarian Industry (Plastic
Processing) to enable it to achieve
international competitiveness and
increase convertible currency exports
2. Second Industrial       Support the restructuring of            1987       Closed
Restructuring Project      Hungarian Industry (Rubber,
Agricultural and Food Processing
Machinery Industry) to enable it to
achieve international competitiveness
and increase convertible currency
exports.
3. Industrial Sector       To support the Government's             1988       Closed
Adjustment Loan          program of economic stabilization
and structural reform. To increase
the efficiency and international
competitiveness of the industrial
sector to enable increased exports to
the convertible currency markets.
4. Structural Adjustment   To help the Government establish a      1990       Closed
Loan                    competitive market economy, restore
reasonable and sustainable rate of
growth, improve the country's
external creditworthiness, and reduce
the rate of inflation. Policy reforms
to improve the performance of
enterprises form the core of the
economic program
5. Second Structural       To support the Government's             1991       Closed
Adjustment Loan         medium-term economic reform
program by deepening reforms
supported by SAL I.
Following Operations
NA



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                           Date planned 1/          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Initial Executive Project Summary)                          10/30/90
Preparation                                                                 11/12/90
Appraisal                                                                   03/14/91
Negotiations                                                                02/10/92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                                03/12/92
Board presentation                                                          04/07/92
Signing                                              04/27/92               04/27/92
Effectiveness                                        05/08/92               05/08/92
First tranche release (if applicable)                05/08/92               05/08/92
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                NA
Second tranche release                               12/31/92               10/13/93
Project completion                                   06/30/93               12/31/93
Loan closing                                          12/31/93              06/30/94
1/ Planned date unavailable except where noted.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
IBRD Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate         Actual           Actual As Percentage
(US$ thousands)                     of Estimate
1993                   200                   100                 50 percent
1994                                         200                 100 percent
Date of Final Disbursement: 01/10/94



16
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section   Covenant   Status    Original   Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Type                 Fulfill-
ment
Date
LA            3.01          P         C                 Procurement to be govemed by Schedule 3 to the LA      Complied
LA            3.02(a)       F         C                 Borrower to maintain satisfactory records and accounts  Complied
in accordance with sound accounting practices
LA            3.02(b)       F         C                 Borrower to have records and accounts, including those  Complied
for the Special Account, audited... not later than six
months after the close of the fiscal year.
LA            3.02(c)       F          C                Borrower to maintain appropriate records and accounts  Complied
for all expenditures for which withdrawals were made
from the Special Accounts and ensure that audit report
contains a separate opinion by the auditors
GA            3.01(a)      M           C                The Guarantee and the Bank shall from time to time at  Complied
the request of either party exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the program and the
actions specified in the Schedule of this Agreement.
GA            3.01(b)      M           C                Prior to each such exchange of views, the guarantor    Complied
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
Covenant type:                                                                           Status:
M    Managerial                                                                          C = Complied with
F    Financial
T    Technical
P    Procurement
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs"
Planned                         Revised                           Actual
Stage of prOJeCt cycle                      Weeks                           Weeks                            Weeks
Through appraisal                           263.0                            237.0                            158.9
Appraisal - Effectiveness                    20.0                             15.0                            24.1
Supervision                                  49.0                            23.0                             25.5
Completion                                    7.0                             11.0                             9.0
Total                                    339.0                           286.0                            217.5
1/ US$ amounts unavailable.



17
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
No. of      Days in                            Performance Rating,       Types of
Stage of project cycle       Month/Year        Persons      Field    -   Specialization'    Implemen-    Develop-        problems'
tation       ment
Status     objectives
Through appraisal             Mar/Apr 89          5            7              F,E,J
Feb 90           3            12               F
Sept/Oct 90         8           22             E,F,O,J
Nov 90            6            14             F,E,P
Appraisal - Board approval      Apr 91            9            7            E,F,O,P,J
May/June 91         4            14             E,F,P
Sept/Oct 91         1            9                F
Mar 92            2           10                F
Board approval -                June 92           1            8                F
Effectiveness
Supervision                     Aug 92            2            8               F,P              I             I
Nov 92            2            8               F,P               I            I
May 93            1            5                F
June 93           3            9               F,P              2             2
Mar 94            2                            F.O
Completion                     June 94            2            6               F,O              S            S
I - Specialization                                                      2 - Performance Rating                3 - Types of Problems
E = Economist                                                            I - Minor problems                   F - Financial
F = Financial Analyst                                                   2 = Moderate Problems                T - Technical
M = Marketing Specialist                                                3 = Major Problems                   M = Managerial
0 = Operations Officer
P = Public Sector Specialist
J = Lawyer
/ Not all team members were present for entire mission.



18
Apndix A
Page I of 2
REVIEW OF THE
ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN (3459/HU)
FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
OBJECTIVES
The loan supported the Government's program aimed at accelerating sharply the privatization,
commercialization and restructuring of the state enterprise sector, thereby strengthening the market
economy in Hungary.
The aim of the series of inter-related reform actions has been to introduce significant changes within the
state enterprise sector in areas of efficient ownership and corporate governance, privatization as well as
restructuring and exit of uneconomic units.
BENEFiITS
In the years of the program implementation (1992 and 1993) substantial progress was reached in all areas
covered by the operation. The policy steps agreed in the context of the ERL have been taken, the targets
met, the loan has been fully disbursed. The progress seems to be sustainable, the program objectives still
have high priority. A dialogue has been continued with the Bank in the context of the preparation of the
proposed EFSAL.
a.     Ownership issues
It is important that by establishing AVU in 1989 the function of the missing real owner was
institutionalized and corporate governance introduced.  That way the prior potential misuse of
"spontaneous" privatization could be avoided. The exercise of state asset ownership function has also been
clearly separated from sectoral policy and regulatory functions of the line ministries and other government
entities. With establishing AV Rt in 1992 the ownership responsibilities of the two institutions had to be
redesigned and institutional development programs elaborated.
b.     Commercialization
By the time of the second tranche release (mid 1993) more than 900 state enterprises were
transformed into a corporate form under the Company law (compared to covenanted 400) thereby placed on
the same legal basis as private companies. By the end of 1994 virtually all state enterprises were
corporatized. In this transformation process the enterprises have undergone a valuation along business
principles and in order to ease subsequent privatization, some restructuring took place as well. For instance
most of the highly concentrated market structures that limited competition were broken up into competing
entities (e.g., in various agroprocessing industries, cement etc.) The oil and gas as well as the power sector
also received more transparent structures in transformation.
c.     Privatization
From the very beginning, Hungary opted for privatization mainly in a commercial way, through
sales and not through free distribution of shares. This was in line with its primary privatization objective to
improve efficiency by attracting real owners into the enterprises. The rapid privatization of state owned
entities through a multi-track approach with appropriate oversight was a major objective of the ERL.



19
Aptedix A
Page 2 of 2
Both AVU and AVRT went through a major institutional development, supported also by the ERL.
They adopted work programs to meet the ambitious privatization targets. The covenanted 12 percent
benchmark for 1992 and the 10 percent for 1993 have been met. The principal target to reduce the share of
state owned property to less than half in the competitive sector by the end of 1994 has also been achieved,
in spite of the fact that the preparation of privatization of the large utilities (e.g., oil, gas, power) in the
portfolio of AVRT needed more time. Namely, before starting with privatization of large natural
monopolies, an improved regulatory framework had to be in place.
The telecom company was privatized in 1993 to a strategic investor (plus EBRD, IFC) just after
having the adequate legal regulation in place, Privatization of other large utilities such as gas distribution,
electricity and oil sector has been initiated. Having a reviewed and improved privatization law been
adopted in the spring of 1995, the pace of privatization accelerated tremendously. 1The new privatization
agency APV RT created by merger of AVU into AVRT achieved an unprecedented volume of privatization
including that of the oil, gas and power sector, yielding more than US$ 3 billion in proceeds.
d.    Restructuring and the Bankruptcy Framework
Numerous enterprises need significant restructuring in order to meet the challenges of the new
market conditions. This requirement is much broader than the turnaround of companies in acute financial
distress but generally should be achieved at the company level, without state involvement, except providing
limited analytical and advisory support, possibly from grant sources. Thus bankruptcy and liquidation
procedures may have an important role in restructuring potentially viable entities but these are not the
exclusive restructuring tools of the management and the real owners of the company.
The main objective of the new bankruptcy and liquidation legislation of 1991 was to impose
financial discipline on the companies first breaking the large involuntary inter-enterprise arrears. The
revision in 1993 could then focus on allowing creditor-led arrangements. Suggested amendments in 1996
would lead to further finetuning and improvement.
RELATIONSHIP WITH TIE BANK
Various World Bank loans supported the wide-ranging policy, legislative and institutional reforms
which helped to create much of the foundation of a functioning market economy in several ways.
The close cooperation in the course of preparation of the ERL and the valuable intellectual input of
the staff was instrumental in finalizing a coherent concept and formulating the detailed design of the
program. The cooperation between the Bank and the Hungarian counterparts was very good throughout the
implementation of the program.  The missions' critical but flexible approach showed excellent
understanding of the situation, outstanding ability to grasp the constraints implied by the specific nature of
the transition process. Their professional competence and creative attitude largely contributed to the
success of the operation.
M:\HUN\ERL\ERC53.DOC
June 24, 1996 16:22



20
Avoendix B
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Page I of 8
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SecM93-1076
From: The President                                       October 19, 1993
HUSNGARY - ENTERPRISE ORRM LOAN fLOAN 345.9.HUJ
1L Bacwud
1.    Hunpgy accelerated its efforts to transform the econmy into a modem market ecmy
foloins the multi-party elctions - the firt in over fort yeas - in early 1990. Comig at a time
when Hungays heay debt burden and percepto   of greater region  rks were causing
interatoal vetor to reduce tber exposure, the aceeastion of maet oietd rden roeured
an increase in the level of BDank asistance to Hungay and an inteniation of structa  rornu
Thes reform   ere suPported by the Bank through two SAL& (1990 and 1991) Prior to that,
efoms were supported by a series of hybrd loans for industrial restructuing nd in 1988 by an
duti Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL). The basic thrust of the refer. wa to complete the
tastion to a compettive market economy in Hungry by increasing cmpetion  nd by emphaising
the role of markets and the prvate sector. The role of the sate, drcwtly as owner of producive
asts, and indirectly through specific and targeted Interventions in ecooomic  ity, wu to be
reduced substantialy.
2.    The State Enterprie (SE) sector still dominated the Hungarian economy, in spite of the rapid
gowth in the private sector over the past few year  Due to this heay preponderaw e, it wcucial
for Hungary's conomic development that economic reforms at the macrok-lvel be accompanied by
meuures that would bave a more direct impact on the performance of economic agents and
enterprseu  To this end, the Oovemment implemented a serl of inter-related SE sector remfr
The aims of thene reforms was to restructure the economy and thu restore economk growth by a
sries of rapid and signifiant changes with{n the SE ector in the areas of privatizatlon, wnerhip
reform ad corporate governance, restructurlng and the exit of uneconomic units
Eecutive Diector and Alnates              Questi  on this documents my be
Office of the Preidents                  referred to: Mr. Hiran Herat (Et32489)
Executve Vce Preident - IFC and MIGA
Vice Presidents - Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads - Bank, MFC and MIGA
r Thi documcnt hai a reutricted distnbiution and may be used by rmcipients only in thc perfonnance
of their ofricial duties its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auhorization.



21
Aooendix B
Page 2 of 8
-2 -
3.    The four main components of the Government's structural reforms were: (i) reducion of the role
of the state through private sector development and measures to reduce the role of the state budget in
redistributing resources through taxes and subsidies; (ii) intensification of competition through strong
reliance of import and domestic price liberalization, promotion of small and medium sized enteprise,
and an effective anti-rust policy including the break-up of highly concentated markets stuctures tht
limit competition; (iii) financial system reform, including further libelization and improved prudental
regulations and supervision, and increased competition in the financial sector; and (iv) the further
development of an adequate social safety net. The reform of the SE sector was of crucial importance for
the success of these components.
4.    The ERL was to support the Government's enterprise reform progrun aimed at accelerating
sharply the privatization, commercialization and restructuring of the state enterprise sector, thereby
strengtding the market economy in Hungary.
5.    Pursuant to Section 3 of the Guarantee Agreement, discussions were held with the Hungrian
authorities to review the progres in implementing the reform program. This  eorandm reviews
recent economic developments, and progres in implementing specific actions for second tranche release
a specified in the Guarantee Agreernent.
U. Macroeconomic Dredopmw   in 1992/93
6.    The stabilization program of 1990-91 and the collpe of domestic demand helped to turn around
the current account of the balance of paymeas from a deficit of nearly $1.5 billion in 1989 to a surplus
of $123 million in 1990 and about $300 million per year in 1991-92. As the CMEA collapsed, exports
were successfully redirected to western markets and the country kept current on all its external debt
obligations. As the situation stabilized, Hungary's access to intraional bond markets improved and
the countrY attmcted over one-half of the total direct foreign investment provided to Cental and Eastern
Europe in 1991-92. On the internal front, consumer price inflation came down from 35% in 1991 to
23% in 1992, and interest rates have decreased accordingly. However, measured GDP has contracted
by a cumulative 18 percent since 1989, reflecting the collapse of CMEA trade, the impact of stabilization
policies on domestic demand, augmented by a sharp increase in household savings, and the falling output
in the SOE sector. As a result of the recession, unemployment increased rapidly to an estimated 12
percent of the labor force by end-1992.
7.    Direcly related to the recession and to the deteriorating situation of SOEs, the public finance
crisis is one of the most difficult issues facing the Government today. On the revenue side, tax receipts
fell short of expectations as the drop in output was larger than expected, the SOE tax base continued to
shrink, and the Government was unable to collect efficiently from the expanding private sector. On the
expenditure side, the rapid increase in the number of unemployment claims and in the number of social
assistance requests exerted powerful upward pressures, which have been difficult to resist in the absence
of a sharp curtailment in the acquired rights of some social security recipients. Thus, the consolidated
state budget deficit increased from 4.5% of GDP in 1991 to 7.1% of GDP in 1992.
8.    A fcl deficit of similar magnitude is projected in 1993, partly due to the lower than expected
level of economic activity. Although industra production seems to be turning around in the last few
months, GDP is projected to decline by about 1-3% this year, reflecting the sharp slowdown in the



22
Appendix B
Page 3 of 8
3 -
icultwual sector. Exports have dropped by nearly 30% in the first half of the year, while impos have
increased slighly, leading to a substntial deterioration in the extermal accounts. Thus, the current
accounl deficit may reach about $2.5 billion (6.5% of GDP) in 1993. The National Bank of Hungary
(NBH) has tightened monetary policy and has accelerated the rate of devaluation to reverse this trend.
The IMF Board of Directors has recently approved a new Stand-by agreenent that provides the
framework for continuing the stabilization process through end-1994.
111. Review of Implementation of Actions for Second 1ninche Rdleas
9.    The program supported by the Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL) is outlined in the Govemment's
Letter of Reform Policy (LI dated March 13, 1992 and the matrix of policy reform actions attached
to the UP. The following specific measures are listed for second tranche release in the Schedule to the
Guarane Agreement.
(i)    Continued mainteance of a macro-economic framework consistent with the objectives
of the Programn, as determined on the basis of indicators aceptable to the Guarantor and
the Bank.
ODi)   Satisfactory implementation of SPA's, Lnsatdona develop mat progrm and work
program for IM2, as agreed with the Bank, including adequate progrs in the
privatization of state enterprises in the competitive sector with comnbined assets equa to
at least 12% of total assets of enterprises in the competitive sector as defined by
agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
(iii)   Adopdon of a dtae work program by SPA for 1993 consistent with the privatizaion
during 1993 of state enterprises in the competitive sector with combined a     equal to
at least an additional 10% of total assets of enterprises in the competitive sector as
defined by agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
(iv)   Trformatlon after June 1991 of about 400 state enterprba, with combined assets
equal to at least Ft. 500 billion into companies subject to the Guarantor's Law of
Economnic Association.
(v)    Satisfactory implmentaton of SPA's  na owneship work progmm.
(vi)   Adopion by SPA of a dealed ownerhip  rlme         on pogram,  and of a
comprehensive ownership institutional development program, both agreed with the Bank,
and initiation of implementation thereof.
(vii)  Eahm    of te St Asset Management Company and adoption of its initial work
progrun, a agreed with the Bank.
(viii)  Adopdon by dh Hupwfa Developmnt Foundaton (HUDEPO) of its wor pigram
through the end of 1993 ad completion of restructuring diagnosis for at least 15 state
enterprises.



23
Appendix B
Page 4 of 8
-4-
(ix)   Completon of a rcvew of dhe inial appolcation of Low IL of 1991 on Banknzptcy
Procedures, Liquidation Procedures and Final Settlement.
(x)    Conpleton of a reiw of te   plaon ofthe stte exteprise reform pogrom,
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, consultation between the Guarantor and
the Bank on the recommendations of such review, and adoption by the Guaantor of the
subsequent actions to be taken to implemnent the Program adequately reflecting the result
of such consultation.
10.   (i)    Macroeconomic framework.
(a)    On September 15, 1993, the Board of the IMF approved a 15-month Stand-by
arrangement in an amount equivalent to SDR 340 million (45% of quota) to the
Republic of Hungary. This agreement replaces an EFF program that bas been
off-track since March 1992. The new Stand-by program focuses on the current
fiscal inbalance (see para 11) and establishes parameters to reverse the
deteriorating trend of the past 2-3 years. Its success will depend to a large extent
on the resumption of economic growth next year, which is expected to boost
revenues and lower expenditures resulting from the prolonged recession, e.g.
unemployment benefits. The program allows for a recovery in public sector
investnents and is consistent with strucrl reforms of the Hungrian economy.
(b)    Over the medium-term, we expect that a consensus could be mustered to
implement the in-depth structural reforms required in the banking and enterprise
sector, in the restructuring of the budget, public administradon and social
security, and in tax administration. This would enable the Government to
accelerate enterprise and bank restructuring and privatization. It would also
reduce the state budget deficit to a level that can be finnced in a non-inflationary
way and without excessive crowding-out. Freeing domestic resources would
allow a rapid expansion of private sector activity and employment which, in turn,
would reduce pressures on social safety net outlays and release public resources
to finance public investment in essential infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance. This, coupled with the restructuring of enterprises and the growing
relative weight of the private sector would lead to a subsntial increae in the
productivity of investment over the second half of the decade.
(ii)   SPA 's institonal developmnx programfor 1992: Progrm as agreed was imnplemented
in a form satisfactory to the Bank. SPA's strategy has been to privadze most of the SE
sector gradually with target of reducing the share of the SE gross assets to less dtan 50%
of the competitive sector by end 1994. As a condition of tranche release SPA had agreed
to privatize state enterprises with combined assets equal to at least 12% of total assets of
enterprise in the competitive sector by end 1992. The competitive sector represents
about 2,000 billion forints (in 1990 prices and as greed by the Bank), from the time of
the Agency's inception, an estimated 16.9% (or 337 billion forints) of the competitive
sector has been privatized (excluding transfers to local governments, to the compensation
progrm and to the social security program). SPA has also carried out a reorganization



24
ADDendix B
Page 5 of 8
-5-
of its internal structure in response to the changes in the structure of its programs. Under
the new structure, an external personnel directorate has been set up to select, appoint and
supervise SPA's representatives at the supervisory boards, managers and company
comnussioners. These representatives share ownership responsibilities with desk officers
in charge of privatization, with the former being involved in a day to day basis and the
latter focusing on a few strategic decisions, such as the transformation of the companies,
the review of documents and business plans, review of controlling reports and vote in
share holder meetings.
(iii) Adoption of a detailed work program by SPA for 1993: For 1993, the SPA has adopted
a work program of ownership and asset management policies satisfactory to the Bank.
In 1993, the SPA's goal is to privatize SEs with assets of at least 10% of the competitive
sector. Note: In accordance with the Government Decree of August 1992, SPA had
transferred by end of 1992, a significant part of its portfolio (enterprises that would
remain prtially or totally in state ownership) to the Hungarian State Holding Conpany
(see vii) and selected ministries. In the first four months of 1993, SPA has sold 52
billion forints worth of assets, which on an annualized basis would represent 7.6%
privatization of state assets. Based on the privatization results of the first quarter and
case by case projections for the rest, SPA is confident of meeting their target.  SPA's
major objectives for 1993 are to further accelerate the pace of privatization by: (i)
increasing the supply of available assets; (ii) increasing operational efficiency of assets
available for purchase; and (iii) increase the flow of information available on enterprises.
SPA is also in the process of introducing new methods to accelerate the pace by: (i)
setting up a privatization facility for small investors (to be implemented in 1994): (ii)
allowing instalment payments for purchase of enterprises; (iii) leasing; and (iv) continue
the ESOP program. The process of transformation of all enterprises will be completed
by December 1993.
(iv)   Transformadion after June 1991 of about 400 state exterprlse,: As of June 1991, 708
companies have completed the transformation process. 411 companies have yet to be
transforned.  These companies are expected to be transformed under a simplified
procedure and the process to be completed by December 1993.
(v)   Imlee on of SPA' InsAl ownership wo  prokram  SPA has comnpleted all phases
of the initial ownership work program as agreed with the Bank: (i) criteria were
developed for selection and appointment of SPA's Board representatives, while a roster
of potential board members has been established; (ii) preparation of detailed work plan,
including a detailed listing of 1992 operational targets wu completed and adopted by the
board in March 1992; nd (iii) specific steps were developed to implement the contracting
out mechanism including the preparation of legal documentation, establishment of criteria
for evaluating contractors and steps to establish proper monitoring mechanism such as
company boards.
(vi)   Adoption by SPA of a deiled ownership implemetaton progrw SPA has adopted
a detailed ownership implementation program satisfactory to the Bank. SPA's principal
objective is to privatize as rapidly u possible the assets under its ownership. However,



25
Avnendix B
Page 6 of 8
-6 -
due to a variety of reasons (i.e. excessive debt burden, outdated technology, etc.), it is
envisaged that a significant portion of its amets will remain under SPA ownership for
some time. For these assets, SPA has the responsibility to exercise its ownership (as the
legitinate representative of the State) within the rules applicable to Hungary's market
economy. Under this framework, SPA will carry out its obligations to prepare
enterprises for prvaization. SPA will not manage the enterprise itself, but has the right
to exercise its ownership through the corporate boards.
(vii)   E           of he State Asset Management Company: After initial delays the
Hungarian State Holding Company (HSHC) was established in late 1992. This entity
replaced the State Asset Management Company (name change only) mentioned in the
SAR. The HSHC has adopted a work program satisfactory to the Bank. This entity is
entmsted with exercising the ownership rights of the Hungarian State in 163 state owned
enterprise that are to remain, at least partially, the property of the State. The Act of
Parliament which set up the HSHC also stipulates the targets for maximum holding of
each of these companies by the HSHC by 1997. To meet these targets a program of
privatization of some 50% of the portfolio is necessary. It is also possible that the bi-
annual reviews of the Act of incorporation of HSHC will result in an increase in
privatization targets. For instance, many companies in the portfolio are targeted to be
invested down to minority holdings (such as banks), while the utilities are 50% + 1 vote
targeted at present. Once this is achieved it is likely that further divestiture will be
agreed with the exception of a few companies such as research institutes (dealing with
confidential defense projects). A privatization plan is expected to be made as part of
each company's strategic plan. Thus, while the HSHC has a mandate to manage the
companies it owns, it has also the mandate for a substantial privatization task. Excluding
the banking portion of its portfolio, it has to privatize nearly 50% of its total asset value.
The objectives of the HSHC are: (i) to manage the assets etrusted to it so as to
maximize their value, and to preserve certain strategic activities, provided it can be done
at reasonable costs; (ii) to privatize partially the companies it holds, to the maximum
extent allowed by law, and (iii) to pay a dividend to its owner, the Hungarian State.
These objectives are to be pursued in conjunction with the economic policy objectives of
the government, as formulated by the policy guidelines approved by parliament. The
HSHC intends to exercise the rights of a prudent owner by establishing a clear strategy
for each company, in cooperation with its management, and provide guidance, incentives
and financil help, so that each company will be able to fulfill its potential to the fullest
extent possible, or arrauge for its merger, consolidation or closure, as the case may be.
(viii)  Adopdon by Ste Hugwsgrx Devclopmut Foundadon (HUDEFO) of Its work progrn:
The HUDEPO has adopted a work program through the end of 1993 satisfactory to the
Bank. As of June 30, 1993, HUDEPO had provided analytical support for the
restructuring of 44 SEs and private enterprises, prinarily through a service of low cost,
focussed enerpries-specific strategic review (quick scans) which has provided impetus
and guidelines for the resructuring process within the individual enterprises. This
process is expected to continue with the inclusion of larger SEs. HUDEFO will also
provide follow-up assistance to enterprises in areas of sales, marketing and finance.
HUDEFO has initiated a regional-level quick scan program for the agro-industrial sector
for the Zala county in Western Hungary and two more counties have showed interest in



26
Atmendix B
Page 7 of 8
-7-
duplicating this process in their counties. They have also embarked on a "Total Quality
Management (TQM)" project for about 20 of the quick scan candidates to assist them to
reach international quality requirements by obtaining the ISO-9000 "Third Party
Certification (TPC).
(ix)   Comp6don of a rmw  of the inal appUcadon of Law IL of 1991 on Bankruptcy
Predures: A review of the application of the Bankruptcy Law was made in early 1993,
and amedments to the Law has been sent to Puliament for discussion. As of July 1993,
bankruptcy procedures have been initiated against 2925 businesses (46% private, 43%
cooperatives, and 11% state enterprises) of which 1880 cases have been resolved either
through liquidation (825) or agreements reached with creditors (1015).
(x)    Completion of a RcWew of the Implementation of the Swte Enterprse Rform
Progr= Several supervision missions (4) that visited Hungary periodically have
reviewed all major apects of the Reform Program with Government authorities including
key ministries, SPA and the State Holding Company. As required under the Loan, SPA
supervied the preparation of a munber case studies of state owned enterprises that were
privatized. The Bank reviewed these studies and major conclusions were discussed with
the SPA (e.g. valuation, tendering process, bid evaluation criteria, transparency of the
bidding process, etc.). The Bank is satisfied that the Governments program for this
sector utisfactorily incorporated the findings and conclusions of this work, as reflected
in this memorandum. The Govenment, with the assistance of the Bank is launching a
major program to accelerate the pace of privatization and eliminate remaining constraints
through the Enterprise Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), currenly under
preparation.
IV. Hsgwya ', Reldons wthhe IMF
11.   On September 15, 1993, the Executive Directors at the IMF approved a 15-month Stand-by
arnogement in an amount equivalent to SDR 340 million (45% of quota) to the Republic of Hungary.
Tbis agreemnt replaces an EFF program that hs been off-track since March 1992. The new Stand-by
includes fiscal mesures that would bring the Consolidated State Budget deficit down to 5.5% of GDP,
with ceilings on net domestic assets, credit to the Government and on total external liabilities in
convertible currencies, and with floors on the stoclk of international reserves. Performance criteria has
been set through the end of 1993, with indicative ceilings for the end of 1994.
V. Disbursnements
12.   Following the effectivenes of the Loan on May 8, 1992, the first tranche of $100 rnillion has
been fully disbursed. The procurement of eligible goods has been carried out in accordance with the
Bank's gidelines and to the Bank's satisfaction



27
Apyendix B
Pag 8 of:8
-8 -
W. Condusions
13.   In the context of wide-ranging economic and political reforms, progress on the overall Economic
Stabilization and Enterprise Reform Program has been stisfactory. AIthough there has been some
slippage in the macro-conditionalities, the Government is conmitted to. implementing measures to bring
the program on track ad a a result, the final tranche under SAL 11 is expected to be released soon. A
Stuad-by arrangent with the IMF was approved in September. The main economic challenge has been
to create conditions for a renmption of economic growth while presrving the favorable sentiment of
intrntional investors. The Bank, in addition to providing needed finacial assistance, has helped the
authorities design policies for managing the transition from stabilization to growth through the ERL to
accelerate the conmercilization, restructuring and privatization of Hunpry's ste enterprise sector.
These efforts are expected to be sustained under the proposed EFSAL. The presence of the Bank,
pardcularly in highly visible opertions like the ERL, SAL 11 and the EFSAL currendy under preparation,
lso sends a  esage to iternational investors that Hungary's structural reform program is on track.
14.   We believe tht the progress in implementng the program has been good. The criteria for release
of the Loan's second tache have been met. The Government of Hungary has therefore been advised
tha the second tranche of USS 100 million is now available.
Lewis T. Preston
President



Agoedix C.
P8: J, of 2.
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE REFORIM LOAN (Loan 3459-HU)
AIDE-NfEMOIRE
1.    A mission visited Hungary from June 20-23, 1994, to discuss and agree with the borrower
and implementing agencies views on project implementation and the steps to be taken in preparing
the Implementtion Completion Report (ICR) for this Loan. The mission met with representatives
of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH), the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT), the State
Property Agency (SPA) and the State Holding Company (AV Rt). The mission would like to thank
the various counterparts for their assistance. This aide-memoire is subject to confirmation of the
management of the World Bank.
2.     As appraised, the project comprised of support to the Government's enterprise refortn
program aimed at accelerating sharply the_privatization, commercialization and restructuring of the
state entersnrise sector, thereby strenahening the m'arket economy in Hungary.
3.    Conditions for release of the second tranche included, inter alia, adoption of work programs
for the SPA and the HUDEFO; establishment and adoption of a work program for the AV Rt;
transformation of 400 state enterprises into joint stock companies after June 1991; review of the Law
on Bankniptcy, and review of the enterprise reform prograrn. Continued maintenance of the macro-
economic framework was also required. Following the conclusion of a 15-month Stand-by
Arrangement with the IMF in September 1993, the second tranche under this Loan was released on
October 13, 1993. The Loan has been fully disbursed.
4.    The ICR will examine in detail implementation of the program supported by this Loan and
will focus on the targets, achievements and macroecmt ic performance.  It wi.l also look at
developments in these areas since the time of tranche relee.
5.     The mission met with the NBH, MIT, SPA and AV Rt and discussed the format for the
proposed ICR. The NBH will cocrdinate the gathering of data from both the SPA and AV Rt, and
MIT. In this context, the SPA and AV Rt will submit the following information:
SPA:
*     The current status of the SPA's work program, including information on the
ent!rprises under SPA ownership which have been privatized to date.
*      SPA's future privatization program and strategy.
*     Tne status of SPA's institutional development program, past achievements, current
status and future plans.
*     The status of SPA's ownership implementation program and any deve!opments
thereof.
*     The status of transformation of state enterprises and what mechanism is in place to
deal with state enterprises that have not being transformed.
AV Rt:
*      wTne current status of AV Rt's work program and portfolio, including information
tun the enterprises privatized to date under AV Rt's ownership.
*      AV Rt's future plans for the management and privatization of its portfolio.
*     The status of AV Rt's institutional development program.



29--
2.9
2                                     iegq2 2ofl28
*     Status of bankruptcy laws and regulations.
*     Information on bankruptcy proceedings (cases) completed and in process to date.
- MTlatHnEFQ  -              ---             - .-  -....................   . ..- ..    __
*     Achievements and status of HUDEFO's work program with respect to providing
analytical support for the restructuring of state and private eoterprises. Information
on the Restructuring and Privatization Corporation (RPIC).
6.    Timetable: The following program was agreed for the preparation of the ICR:
Basic data mentioned (para 5) to WB by NBH                    early Sept
Draft report to NBH for comment                               early/mid-Oct
Receipt of borrower's contribution and comments               early/mid-Nov
Final draft report                                            end-Nov
Hiran Herat
for the World Bank
Budapest
June 23, 1994


















