Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3459 HU
                     (Enterprise Reform Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 27, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3459 HU
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor hereby declares its commitment to
the execution of the program (the Program) referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the loan agreement of even date
herewith (the Loan Agreement) between the Bank and the National Bank
of Hungary (the Borrower);
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement the Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
million dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to undertake such
other obligations;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                             Guarantee
      Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of the Loan all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The Vice President or the General Manager of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            National Bank of Hungary
            Department for International
              Development Institutions
            H-1850 Budapest
            Szabadsag ter 8-9
            Republic of Hungary
            Cable address:Telex:
                  BANKO                227267 SMAFU-H,
                  Budapest             225755 BANKO-H or
                                       227028 BANKO-H
Page  3
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
                  By /s/ Mihaly Kupa
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                           Europe and Central Asia
                           SCHEDULE
              Actions Referred to in Section 3.01 (a)
             of this Agreement and in Paragraph 4 (b)
                of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
1.    Continued maintenance of a macro-economic framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program, as determined on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Guarantor and the Bank.
2.    Satisfactory implementation of SPA's institutional devel-
opment program and work program for 1992, including adequate
progress in the privatization of state enterprises in the
competitive sector with combined assets equal to about 12% of total
assets of enterprises in the competitive sector as defined by
agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
3.    Adoption of a detailed work program by SPA for 1993 con-
sistent with the privatization during 1993 of state enterprises in
the competitive sector with combined assets equal to at least an
additional 10% of total assets of enterprises in the competitive
sector as defined by agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
4.    Transformation after June 1991 of about 400 state enter-
prises, with combined assets equal to at least Ft. 500 billion into
companies subject to the Guarantor's Law of Economic Association.
5.    Satisfactory implementation of SPA's initial ownership work
program.
6.    Adoption by SPA of a detailed ownership implementation program
Page  4
and of a comprehensive ownership institutional development program,
both agreed with the Bank, and initiation of implementation thereof.
7.    Establishment of the State Asset Management Company and
adoption of its initial work program, as agreed with the Bank.
8.    Adoption by the Hungarian Development Foundation of its work
program through the end of 1993 and completion of restructuring
diagnosis for at least 15 state enterprises.
9.    Completion of a review of the initial application of Law IL of
1991 on Bankruptcy Procedures, Liquidation Procedures and Final
Settlement.
10.   Completion of a review of the implementation of the state
enterprise reform program, under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, consultation between the Guarantor and the Bank on the
recommendations of such review, and adoption by the Guarantor of the
subsequent actions to be taken to implement the Program adequately
reflecting the result of such consultation.
