Page  1
(Public Enterprise Transformation and Privatization Project)
between
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY AS REPRESENTATIVE OF
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated August 22, 1990
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 22, 1990, between THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY AS 
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects 
supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available 
to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
(a)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank referred to in Recital (A) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(b)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, means the 
Grant;
(e)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read the Grant Account;
(f)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(g)
Section 4.01. shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator 
shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the 
proceeds of such withdrawal.";
(h)
Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17) and (19), 
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.02 (a)(i), 
6.02 (g), 6.02 (h), 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01, 
12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are deleted;
(i)
The second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted; and
(j)
All references to "the Guarantor," wherever such term is used in the 
General Conditions, shall not apply to this Agree-ment.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and 
"¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in an amount of thirty four 
million eight hundred thousand yen (¥34,800,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Administrator.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Page  3
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the 
depart-ments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical 
Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation; Transfer of
Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. The First Deputy President or the General Manager of the National 
Bank of Hungary shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions;
For the Recipient:
National Bank of Hungary
Department for International
  Development Institutions
H-1850 Budapest
Szabadsag ter 8-9
Republic of Hungary
Cable address:
Telex:
BANKO
227267 SMAFU-H,
Budapest
225755 BANKO-H or
227028 BANKO-H
For the Administrator:
Page  4
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
By /s/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account for 100% of 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of consultants' services required for the carrying out of the 
Technical Assistance and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expendi-tures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance consists of studies and technical support required for:
(a)
the carrying out of a detailed review of the existing legal framework 
regulating public enterprise transformation and privatization and the formulation of 
objectives and operational criteria for the implementation of such public enterprise 
transfor-mation and privatization; and
(b)
the development and carrying out of a program for the initial operations 
of the State Property Agency responsible for supervising public enterprise 
transformation and privatization, including the identification of enterprises suitable 
for transforma-tion and privatization and the initiation of the process for their 
transformation and privatization.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services
Page  5
In order to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of the Technical 
Assistance, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfac-tory to the Recipient on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Administrator in August 1981.
