Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3961 RU
                              Loan Agreement
                      (Standards Development Project)
                                  between
                            RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated March 7, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3961 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1996, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
      (b)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
and
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Gost" means the State Committee of the Borrower for
Standardization, Metrology and Certification;
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "PPIU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement; and
      (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated October 18, 1995 and
January 29, 1996 between the Bank and the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The
Page  3
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
Page  4
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through Gost with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain, within Gost a Project Preparation and Implementation
Unit (PPIU) responsible to Gost with adequate authority to
coordinate, supervise and report on the execution of the
Project and with a staff of competent individuals in sufficient
numbers.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about February 28, 1997,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by March 31, 1997, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank's views on the matter.
      Section 3.04. For the purpose of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
Page  5
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or the Deputy
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Ilyinka Street 9
            103009 Moscow
            Russian Federation
                                          Telex:
                                          112008
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                           82987 (FTCC), or
                                           64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Washington,
D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
                          RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                          By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
                                          Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                          Regional Vice President
                                          Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                Dollar              to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)   Consultants' and         8,200,000          100%
      other services
      and training
(2)   Goods                   13,500,000          100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures,
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures
                                                  (ex-factory
                                                  cost) and 80%
                                                  of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(3)   Civil works                600,000          80%
(4)   Refunding of               400,000          Amount due
      Project                                     pursuant to
      Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                     of this Agreement
(4)   Unallocated               1,300,000
                               __________
        TOTAL                  24,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods, under contracts not exceeding $300,000
equivalent, individual consultants under contracts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, consultants' firms under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 and works under contracts not
exceeding $200,000, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the
Borrower's integration into international cooperative networks
on product and quality standards, the harmonization of the
Borrower's product standards with international standards and
the upgrading of the certification capacity of Gost.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:
      Establishment of the Russian Data Center within Gost for
the fulfillment of the task of the standards enquiry point, to
act as electronic clearinghouse and depository for Russian and
international standards required by the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, acquisition and installation of a large
network and data base system needed therefor and carrying out
of minor civil works required for the installation of large
equipment.
Part B:
      Identification of the Borrower's product standards within
priority sectors, which do not conform with international
standards, assessment of the extent of the divergence between
nonconforming national and international standards, evaluation
of the nature of constraints to harmonization of national and
international standards, rewriting of nonconforming standards
to render them compatible with international standards, and
provision of consultants and translation services and
acquisition and installation of standards data bases needed
therefor.
Part C:
      Strengthening of Gost's capacity to carry out testings and
certifications of selected products through provision of
training and testing, metrology and other equipment needed
therefor with a view to gain international accreditation under
the relevant systems.
                               ***
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                                 Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
      On each 15 May and 15 November
            beginning 15 May 2001
            ending 15 November 2012                    1,000,000
_____________________________
Page  9
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                     Premium
                                        The interest rate
                                        (expressed as a percentage
                                        per annum) applicable to the
                                        Loan on the day of
                                        prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                         0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                           0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                         1.00
      maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $446,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost $70,000 equivalent or less per
contract, and not to exceed $288,000 in the aggregate, shall be
Page  10
procured under lumpsum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date,
a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract.
3.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $410,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $235,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.    Direct Contracting
       Equipment which must be purchased from the original
supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or are of a
proprietary nature and costing $610,000 equivalent or less in
the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of
the Guidelines.
Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract:  (i) procured under the
provisions of Part A hereof; and (ii) the first two contracts
to be awarded under the provisions of Part C.1 irrespective of
their estimated cost, and thereafter each contract estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
Page  11
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
 1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1 million.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
Page  12
                   for deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; or
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
Page  13
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
