           Document of
          The World Bank




                                   Report No: 28608-MAI

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-31360)

               ON A

              CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$66 MILLION

              TO THE

       REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

              FOR A

SECOND SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT




            May 26, 2004

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 1998)

                   Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
                            MK1 = US$ 0.0374
                          US$ 1 = MK26.693

                         FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1 -   June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS                Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BA                  Beneficiary Assessment
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs                Community Based Organizations
CES                 Capacity Enhancement and Studies
CSP                 Community Sub-Projects
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DEC                 District Executive Committee
DFID                Department for International Development
ECAM                Employers Consultative Association of Malawi
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FBOs                Faith Based Organizations
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOM                 Government of Malawi
IDA                 International Development Association
IEC                 Information, Education and Communication
LAs                 Local Authorities
MASAF               Malawi Social Action Fund
MASAF II            Malawi Second Social Action Fund
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                 Management Information System
MU                  Management Unit of MASAF
NGOs                Non-Government Organization
NRSC                National Roads Safety Council
O&M                 Operation and maintenance
PMCs                Project Management Committees
PWP                 Public Works Program
SOCAM               Society of Accountants in Malawi
SSP                 Sponsored Sub-Projects
TWC                 Technical Working Committee

                  Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
               Country Director      Hartwig Schafer
                Sector Manager       Dzingai Mutumbuka
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Hope C. Phillips Volker

                                           MALAWI
                                 Second Social Action Fund


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              27
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            28
Annex 10. Capacity Enhancement Achievements                                      66
Annex 11. Borrower's ICR                                                         75

Project ID: P049599                                                  Project Name: MASAF II
Team Leader: Hope C. Phillips                                        TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: May 26, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MASAF II                                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-31360
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (40%); Other social services (30%); General
                            water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%); Health (10%)
                  Theme: Social risk coping (P); Other social protection and risk management
                            (P); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (P); Other urban development (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/15/1997                                     Effective: 02/10/1999                02/10/1999
     Appraisal: 04/14/1998                                         MTR:                             02/15/2002
      Approval: 10/15/1998                                      Closing: 05/31/2003                 11/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Malawi/Malawi Social Action Fund Management Unit
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Hope C. Phillips                               Norbert Mugwagwa
ICR Primary Author:             Suleiman Namara


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The preparation of this intensive learning ICR included holding a stakeholders workshop that was attended
by the Project staff, Government (central and local) staff, non-governmental organizations, and donors. The
workshop discussed the 2003 Beneficiary Assessment,the Listenership, Readership and Viewership Survey,
a Department for International Development (DFID) evaluation of the Public Works Program, among
others. The outcome of the stakeholders workshop is contained in Annex 9.

The Malawi Second Social Action Fund (MASAF II) was a follow-on operation of MASAF I, and the
US$66 million Credit became effective while MASAF I was still under implementation. The development
objective of MASAF II was to enhance and sustain the provision and use of resource endowments by
beneficiary communities which would contribute to poverty reduction through: (a) addressing the need for
socio-economic infrastructure development in rural and urban areas; (b) supporting safety net programs
through creation of temporary employment for the very poor and financing initiatives to assist the most
vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children, persons with disabilities, the aged and those affected by
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS); and (c) enhancing in-country capacity to identify,
prioritize and implement projects by training of stakeholders at national, regional, district and community
levels.

The development objective was clear, realistic, and in line with the (a) Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
of August 4, 1998 (Report No. 18349 MAI) whose objectives included reducing poverty through targeted
interventions for the poorest, as well as (b) Government of Malawi (GOM) Poverty Alleviation Program.
The Project was not overly demanding on the Management Unit (MU), notwithstanding the inclusion of a
new component, and was not complex or risky. It continued to support nation-wide activities, and the
number of institutions that would be involved could not be predetermined. There were no co-financiers,
although parallel financing was provided part way through the Project.


3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had the following five components.

Community Sub-Projects (CSP) would finance community demand driven socio-economic infrastructure
(rehabilitation, extension and construction of primary and secondary schools, health facilities, rehabilitation
and construction of markets, small scale water supply, storm drainage and sanitation, pavement of access
roads, and construction of roads and bridges) in rural and urban areas. The component was premised on
the vision, endowments and capabilities of community groupings to forge a development process that would
produce intermediate to long-term benefits to the poor. Pro-active participation of beneficiaries in
identification and prioritization of needs, decision making, implementation, social mobilization and capacity
building, beneficiary targeting, project monitoring and evaluation and information, education and
communication (IEC) were integral parts of this component. Project Management Committees (PMCs),
with technical support from the Local Authorities (LAs), played a pivotal role in facilitating project
implementation, including mobilization of the required community contribution.

Public Works Program (PWP) would finance labor-intensive works as a safety net scheme in targeted poor
rural and urban areas and, in so doing, not only created assets, but also provided a cash transfer to the



                                                     - 2 -

beneficiaries. MASAF II paid a wage rate below the minimum market rate as a self-targeting mechanism.
Activities financed included road maintenance and rehabilitation, land husbandry, afforestation, water
supply, sanitation and drainage schemes. Road networks for rehabilitation and maintenance were
earmarked by the sector ministry but selection and implementation was done through community
consultations using participatory approaches conducted by the District Executive Committees (DECs).

Sponsored Sub-Projects (SSP) was going to support initiatives identified by NGOs/CBOs in collaboration
with the vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children, persons with disabilities, the aged and the
HIV/AIDS affected. All sub-projects were implemented through agencies including NGOs, CBOs and
Faith Based Organizations (FBOs). This was a pilot to test whether NGOs/CBOs were effective and
efficient providers of essential services to disadvantaged groups.

Capacity Enhancement and Studies (CES) would finance capacity building of the MU, as well as national,
regional and district agencies in the use of procedures and systems. The criteria for selection of the type
and mode of capacity building was developed jointly amongst MASAF and the stakeholders. The
component also financed project related studies, including Beneficiary Assessments, and specific studies to
further enhance the operation and impact of the Project. The CES was implemented by the MU.

Incremental Operating Costs would finance salaries, benefits, operational travel and subsistence of staff
while supervising sub-projects; it also covered the operation and maintenance of offices, project vehicles,
and equipment. Funding for the IEC activities was provided for under this component, and included
financing of quality IEC interventions as articulated in the IEC strategy.

A number of lessons from MASAF I were incorporated in the design including, among others: (i) the
concern on management of strong community demand for sub-projects; (ii) the need to agree and build
monitoring and evaluation systems around poverty reduction indicators; (iii) methods to sustain community
based or local government supported maintenance of assets; (iv) capacity building techniques to foster
inter-agency cooperation and collaboration; (v) recognition that communities have capacity to manage the
full sub-project cycle in record time; (vi) strong ownership of the project at all levels of government; (vii)
appreciation of the complementarities between the CSP and the PWP components; and (viii) the importance
of involvement of Local Government staff.

As a "repeater" operation, MASAF II continued to support the creation of community level social and
economic infrastructure to benefit the poor, enhanced their participation in prioritizing and implementing
sub-projects through PMCs, and the participation of women. In an economy that was prone to adverse
weather shocks, MASAF II continued to provide support for the poor through targeted PWP. In response
to the high HIV/AIDS infection rates, and the attendant rise in vulnerability, the SSP component was added
to support the vulnerable through intermediary agencies such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
or community based organizations (CBOs). MASAF II also built the capacity of staff from NGOs, private
sector, MU, National, District, and Assemblies, thereby supporting the GOM's decentralization efforts.

In addition to incorporating lessons from MASAF I, the design of these components also took into
consideration the capacity of the MU, including its administrative and financial capacities, and the
components were reasonably linked to achieving the Development Objective.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:



                                                      - 3 -

Based on the assessment of various elements of the project design and preparation, quality at entry is rated
satisfactory. The project contributed to and was consistent with the CAS objectives of improving
infrastructure, improving the quality and access to education and health services, as well as ensuring the
provision of a safety net. It was also in line with GOM's priorities as articulated in the Poverty Alleviation
Program. MASAF II built on the successes of MASAF I and fine-tuned its processes as the cornerstone of
the new self help and community development paradigm adopted by GOM to deal with pervasive poverty.
The design process was participatory, incorporated the lessons learnt from MASAF I and other
international experiences, findings from the March 1997 Beneficiary Assessment (BA), and a number of
studies carried out as part of the preparation. Mechanisms to increase the likelihood of sustainability, to
minimize recurrent costs implications, to reflect sector priorities and the involvement of sector ministries
were given due diligence during the design. The preparation process resulted in a product that had a good
balance between what worked in MASAF I, and innovations arising from the preparation process.
Although the output indicators were not as robust as they could have been, the ambiguity was clarified
during the midterm review. The risks identified in the Project Appraisal Document were relevant, the
mitigatory measures were adequate, and the "modest" risk rating was appropriate. Notwithstanding the
capacity building efforts under MASAF I, the need for continued support towards sustainability efforts was
properly included in MASAF II. The mainstreaming of the environment, through inclusion of environment
impact assessments (EIAs) in the sub-project cycle, is to be lauded.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
MASAF II enhanced and sustained the provision and use of resource endowments by beneficiary
communities; therefore the outcome/achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. The objectives of
MASAF II are consistent with the CAS of May 14, 2003 (Report No. 25906 MAI) which indicates that
three pillars would be built upon during this period, with the third pillar identified as "improving service
delivery and strengthening safety nets." The assessment is based on impact studies undertaken after
implementation (including the case study of Social Funds Experience in Africa­ Scaling Up of Poverty
Reduction in Malawi and Zambia -April 2004), the Beneficiary Assessment (November 2003), the output
indicators as provided in Annex 1, and Section 10 of this Report. Additionally, statistics indicate that
social expenditures as a ratio of GDP in Malawi rose from 9% between 1998/99 to 2000/01 to 10.9% in
2001/02. MASAF being the biggest poverty reduction instrument in Malawi, with its strong focus on
social capital formation, and putting cash in the hands of the poor communities and the vulnerable, a
certain incremental percentage of social expenditure can partly be inferred to MASAF.

According to the case study of Social Funds Experience in Africa ­ "Scaling up of Poverty Reduction in
Malawi and Zambia" (April 2004), the impact of both MASAF and the Zambia Social Investment Fund is
rated positive thus confirming that indeed MASAF benefited the project target beneficiaries. The study
confirmed that MASAF project beneficiaries enjoyed :

    ·    Improved access to social services.
    ·    Increased utilization of these services and assets.
    ·    Higher quality of services and assets.
    ·    Opportunities arising from infrastructure development.
    ·    Gains from skills and abilities to work together and organize themselves.

The 2003 BA also indicates that support through MASAF II to the education sector has significantly
improved enrollments, reduced the walking distance to schools and reduced the drop-out rates. Similarly,
investments in water and sanitation activities have reportedly reduced the incidences and treatment of



                                                      - 4 -

waterborne diseases in the sub-project areas, reduced distances to safe water sources thereby making more
productive time available to women and children, and increased the prevalence of use of good hygiene
habits. MASAF II has been able to address the community identified needs for socio-economic
infrastructure in rural and urban areas.

The BA (2003) also points to poor technical quality of sub-projects. While it is not possible to quantify the
magnitude of sub-standard construction, statistics on the condition of MASAF I sub-projects carried out by
the Centre for Social Research et. al. (October 2003) presents an indication of the magnitude of the
problem under MASAF I. The study found that of the 121 education (school blocks and teachers houses)
and 30 boreholes sub-projects sampled, 35% of the school blocks and 18% teachers houses reported having
serious defects, with almost 50% of the school blocks having some damage on the floor. On the boreholes,
50% of the school boreholes and 2/3 of the stand-alone boreholes were reported as providing an adequate
flow of fresh drinking water while 20% of the former and 10% of the later were no longer functional.
These statistics need to be interpreted with the shortcoming outlined below. The study was for MASAF I
and did not provide the factors that contributed to the defects of these assets. However it is likely that the
poor quality of construction could have been a major contributor. Under MASAF II though an
improvement in the design, incorporation of lessons learnt from MASAF I, strong MU and the greater
involvement of the district staff in desk and field appraisals, monitoring and supervision, as well as the
training of maintenance committees may have significantly reduced the magnitude of sub-standard
construction found under MASAF I levels. Therefore the quality of construction of MASAF II assets is
likely to be significantly better than that of MASAF I.

With respect to the intention to support safety net programs through creation of temporary employment for
the very poor, the BA looked at the benefits generated through the PWP, which included: temporary
employment, and cash transferred into the hands of the workers, with the biggest expenditure item reported
to be food. The BA found that roads and bridges constructed reportedly improved access for farmers to
farm inputs, markets and clinics both during rainy and dry seasons thus improving on the quality of their
lives. Although the BA findings reported that communities considered the wage rate below the market
wage rate, the case study of Social Funds Experience in Africa concluded that the project was paying
above the market wage rate. MASAF was paying on a task basis, whereas the minimum wage is a daily
wage rate; this may have led to the impression that MASAF was paying a wage rate below the market.
Both studies however conclude that the project was a major source of employment in the sampled areas and
therefore had a great potential for poverty reduction. Community groups who participated in PWP have
demonstrated that these interventions can be used for enhancing economic progression of the beneficiaries.
Pursuance to this, a scheme with CARE Malawi, financed by DFID, in four districts is testing approaches
that would add value to the effectiveness and impact of PWP beyond the wage transfer mechanisms.

With respect to the aim of financing initiatives to assist the most vulnerable groups, a wide range of
activities were supported. The target groups included orphans, street children, HIV/AIDS affected people,
the aged, people with disabilities, widows and widowers. The interventions included early childhood
development centers, vocational skills centers, agricultural activities for food security and nutrition and
income generating activities. Though funding of sub-projects through the SSP commenced late in 2001, the
completed projects are already distributing benefits to the vulnerable such as improving the nutrition
standards of the orphans and a sense of hope to life. Some of the youth have gained skills in tailoring,
carpentry and tin-smithing, tree planting, retention of soil fertility, and knitting. The disabled have
improved mobility through provision of wheel chairs, tricycles, special sandals, crutches and special frames
and increased confidence.

With respect to the endeavor to enhance in-country capacity to identify, prioritize and implement projects


                                                      - 5 -

by training stakeholders at all levels, MASAF II has also succeeded in this. Community demand for
sub-projects was overwhelming, intermediary agencies, local and National Government staff and PMCs
were trained and an IEC strategy was developed and implemented.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Community Sub-Projects (CSP) (US$51.1 million; IDA US$42.61 million, GOM US$2.24 million, and
Beneficiary Communities US$6.24 million). The CSP component funded 2,255 sub-projects against the
target of 2,164. According to the BA (2003), the sample indicated increased school enrollment which
ranged from 1.4% to 63%, improved learning environment due to provision of permanent classroom blocks
and furniture and reduced distance to schools. The percentage of infrastructure (schools, health units and
other) used, managed and maintained is 98.2% against a target of 70%. The failure to attain 100% is
mainly the result of health units which remain un-staffed. The component not only met the physical
indicators, but also contributed to institutional development through the training provided to PMCs.
Despite the shortfall on the training of artisans in skills improvement, the component related well to the
development objectives, and is rated highly satisfactory.

Public Works Program (PWP) (US$13.1 million; IDA US$12.5 million, GOM US$0.6 million). The
target of 286 sub-projects was surpassed, with 382 completed. Against a target of 720,000 people to
receive two months wages, only 535,676 had received these. The failure to meet this target was the result
of variations from the original assumptions that (a) each sub-project would employ 630 people;
participants per sub-project were actually 300; and (b) the duration of the sub-project would last between
3-4 months; the sub-projects typically lasted 8-9 months. While the number of beneficiaries was fewer
than estimated, the period for which an individual received wages was for a longer duration. The number
of women in receipt of wages for at least two months exceeded the targets by 144% (i.e., 244,274 women
received wages for at least two months against the target of 100,000); however the percentage of women in
PWP PMCs was only 25% against the target of 50%. The reasons advanced are that women in very poor
and vulnerable households are so involved in survival activities that the opportunity cost of sitting in
meetings is too high to be afforded. Impressive outputs were also recorded in the number of households
receiving employment: 119,039 compared to the set target of 80,000. Sub-project costs going towards
unskilled labor was 46%, surpassing the target of 40%. The component related well to the development
objective, met the physical target set, and, notwithstanding the shortcomings noted above, is rated
satisfactory.

Sponsored Sub-Projects (SSP) (US$0.6 million; IDA US$0.5 million, GOM US$0.1 million). This
component is rated highly satisfactory. The original allocation of US$0.5 million was for a pilot to test
whether NGOs/CBOs were effective and efficient providers of essential services to the disadvantaged
groups, and the target was for 43 sub-projects. Based on the performance of the NGOs/CBOs, and the
community demand, an additional US$2.8 million was provided through savings from other components.
While one would have expected, with the additional funding, that 258 sub-projects would have been
supported, in fact the component financed 384 of the 1,344 community requests received, far exceeding the
anticipated sub-project target. Although no targets were set relating to the number of people to benefit
from SSP, of the 252,686 beneficiaries, 209,832 were orphans, 4,698 were the elderly, 40 were street
children, 18,154 were chronically ill and those affected by HIV/AIDS, and 20,962 were people with
disabilities. The proportion of women participating in committees was 54% against the target of 50%, and
the number of NGOs/CBOs that were trained in project cycle management was 275 against the target of
10. Support to early childhood development centers provided the children with a conducive learning
environment and opportunity for improved nutrition status through the feeding program.




                                                       - 6 -

The BA points to the need to clarify the roles of participants, in particular the Project Supporting
Committees (PSCs), which were to serve as the link between the implementing CBO, direct beneficiaries
and the wider community. Steps were taken to clarify this through workshops and it is expected that clarity
of roles will go a long way in improving accountability and transparency thus contributing to empowering
the vulnerable. The component also related well to the Development Objective, graduating from a pilot to a
mainstream component, provided support to poverty reduction, and building capacity of both NGOs/CBOs,
and also the beneficiaries. This component is rated highly satisfactory.

Capacity Enhancement and Studies (US$3.9 million; IDA US$3.9 million). Although the performance of
this component is mixed, with areas of success and targets which were not met, the component is rated
satisfactory. During MASAF II, 614 public and private sector persons (excluding PMCs) had been trained
in CSP, including village head persons, group village head persons and ward councilors. While it was
expected that 2,900 artisans would receive training on skills improvement, only 30 benefited. This was due
to lack of interest on the part of the technical training institutions in-country to provide this training. In the
last half of the project life, the MU entered into a collaborative arrangement with the Technical and
Vocational Entrepreneurship Training Centre to provide support in this area. Under PWP, the expectation
was 300 people would undergo training; the target was surpassed as 195 Councilors were oriented, and 109
Assembly and sectoral staff were trained. Training was provided to 16,054 people, including CBOs, and
the PMCs under PWP and CSP. The trained members of MASAF staff stood at 926 which included 18
internal training courses, workshops, studies, and field visits undertaken, with 17 staff provided with
external training. The training contributed to enhanced capacities of MASAF staff and other implementing
agencies to manage and implement sub-projects. Only 16 out of a target of 21 studies were undertaken by
the end of the project period since the PHRD grant for preparation of MASAF 3 funded a number of
studies on the future role of MASAF. Since EIAs were internalized in all project appraisals, the target of
1,395 was surpassed as almost all sub-projects were screened for EIA. Challenges under this component
were mainly due to the vacancy of the Monitoring and Evaluation post.

Incremental Operating Costs (US$7.5 million; IDA US$6.5 million, GOM US$1.0 million). The MU and
Zone Offices functioned well. With support from Local Authorities and NGOs/CBOs, community demand
to plan, prioritize, prepare and implement sub-projects was stimulated. This component also funded IEC to
sensitize stakeholders on MASAF II procedures and processes, document lessons learnt and feed these back
to the concerned stakeholders. IEC continued to be the oil that facilitated the MASAF II operations. A
Listenership, Readership and Viewership Survey, covering 15 districts in 3 regions, indicated that more
than 95% of those interviewed were aware of the Project and that men and women were equally targeted.
However, there was reportedly a big knowledge gap regarding MASAF principles between PMC members
and their communities. This could have been improved through: (i) creating a strong information interface
at district level; (ii) ensuring that project related information circulated optimally between MASAF Zone
Managers/field office staff, PMCs/PSCs, and communities; and (iii) developing information content and
channels, factoring in the existing high levels of illiteracy. Overall, this component is rated satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic rate of return (ERR) of 29% was calculated at appraisal for primary education, water and
roads under the assumption that communities are rational economic actors and that their choices reflect the
greatest return to their inputs of labour, time and materials. At the time of appraisal ERR ranged from
15% for secondary schools to 50% for primary schools. ERR for roads was estimated at 26% at the time.
It was also assumed that the communities in MASAF would follow the same pattern of sub-project
selection as in MASAF I. On the basis of its orientation to supporting vulnerable groups, the economic
justification for SSP was assumed strong. These assumptions, though theoretically sound, are not found



                                                         - 7 -

realistic as they fail to capture the immediate benefits (both in terms of quality and quantity) accruing to
communities arising from public infrastructure and other externalities arising from these public
investments. The ICR has therefore focused on the use of a cost effectiveness and efficiency analysis,
comparing MASAF use of resources with other organizations. The least cost analysis undertaken at
appraisal indicated that the unit costs of MASAF projects were about half the cost of commercial works.
For boreholes, the unit cost difference was about 20% lower than the traditional projects. According to a
2003 review undertaken by EMC Jatula Associates, "Review of Cost Effectiveness and Design Standards",
MASAF was found to be a least cost instrument for delivering infrastructure and social support to the poor
(see Annex 3 for the cost comparisons). The study indicated that the cost of building a variety of structures
such as classrooms, boreholes, bridges and pit latrines through MASAF was nearly 30-50% less than the
cost of similar structures financed by donors, private contractors, Government Departments and the
National Road Authority. As noted in the ICR for MASAF I, the analysis does not provide cost per square
meter comparisons but rather unit cost comparisons, and not always at constant prices. Additionally, the
analysis does not take into consideration quality issues. The data is therefore interpreted with these
limitations in consideration.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for the Project at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The MU has maintained a strong quasi-autonomous agency under the Office of the President and Cabinet.
A MASAF Board (with broad representation) was appointed to provide oversight functions, ensure
compliance with guidelines as set out in the Project Manuals, give policy guidance, and monitor the impact
of MASAF on communities served. Various documents reviewed in MASAF, indicate a strong impact of
MASAF as an institution on achieving the various objectives. The MU has ensured that the demand driven
nature of the project is realized at the community level, and provided the appropriate qualified staff to
assist in the realization of the project goals. A strong partnership has been built between communities,
CBOs/NGOs, private sector, local authorities, District Assemblies and the MU. The strong institutional
impact is evidenced through the following:

    ü         The capacity developed in the context of MASAF projects became crucial and useful in
              meeting the emergencies during the 2002 drought. The PWP was quickly expanded to
              augment incomes. The Bank supported Emergency Drought Recovery Credit shows that
              augmenting incomes and expanding food supplies are two crucial elements of the GOM's food
              security strategy.
    ü         The project enhanced the nodes of social capital throughout the country in the form of PMCs
              for CSP and PWP, and PSCs for SSP. These organizations have the potential of being used to
              form the basis for economic organization such as savings and investments clubs.
    ü         The project supported the GOM's decentralization efforts by improving targeting of resources
              and capacity building at District level to respond to community needs.
    ü         Non-politicization of the project and transparency of its processes has kept the project free of
              political controversy.

The institutional development impact is rated substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
HIV/AIDS. Similar to many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, Malawi's HIV/AIDS prevalence rate is
high--15% nationwide, with urban rates running as high as 23%. The pandemic has resulted in loss of life


                                                       - 8 -

mainly in the productive age groups of 15 to 49 years, contributing to an increase in the number of orphans
and severely straining the resources at the household level and in the economy as a whole.

Structure of the economy and external shocks. Malawi is a small, predominantly rural (85% of the
population), landlocked country dependent on small subsistence agriculture both for food and export. The
performance of the economy is highly dependent on weather patterns. The drought of 2001/2002 severely
affected the production and output of food and cash crops. The country also remains vulnerable to
exogenous shocks of decreases in international commodity prices of tobacco, tea and sugarcane.
Macro-economic instability and high inflation rates coupled with the depreciation of the Kwacha, has
adverse effects for large-scale agriculture and smallholder farmers.

These conditions increased the challenge of pervasive poverty in Malawi, resulting in overwhelming
demand for community development projects from MASAF, far beyond the capacity of the implementing
agency. In 2001, over 10,000 sub-project proposals were returned to the Districts due to lack of funding.
The overwhelming community demand for sub-projects resulted in (i) delays in sub-project approval,
implementation, completion and, in some instances, poor technical quality; (ii) PWP wage rates not always
keeping up with inflation, thereby continuously eroding its impact; and (iii) slow implementation of
sub-projects due to poor weather conditions. The drought also diverted community energies from the
provision of their contribution to survival mechanisms, thus contributing to delays in implementation.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
General and Local Government elections and implementation of the Decentralization Policy. The general
elections in 1999 and the Local Government elections in 2000 created instability at the community and
district level causing sub-project implementation delays. Critical staff at the district level were deployed as
returning officers, while some PMC members were competing for elected positions in Local Governments.
Staff recruitment by Local Government following the passing of the decentralization policy further
compounded the problem.

Recurrent Cost Implications for Community Assets Created. Some of the assets created under the Project
have not been staffed due to limited financial and/or human resources at local and central government
levels. Maintenance of rehabilitated roads has similarly been problematic due to limited resources. Some
of the minimization measures taken by the MU included stopping the financing of sub-projects in the health
sector and involvement of district staff in both desk and field appraisal, with a view to minimizing funding
sub-projects without being sure of recurrent costs.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management information system (MIS) and the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system were not able to
track outcome indicators. An MIS and M&E system were in place and being used by the MU to report
progress against the agreed key performance indicators but there was poor linkage with poverty monitoring
activities by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development. Consequently, outcome indicators that
were included in the design of the project were not being captured, making it relatively difficult to measure
the impact of the Project on the beneficiaries/beneficiary communities. Additionally, the M&E position
remained unfilled most of the project life due to difficulties in attracting (and retaining) skilled M&E staff.
Financial management data was tracked through a computerized system but tracking physical achievements
would have been improved by a computerized system.

Effectiveness of poverty targeting and impact. As noted above, the poor have benefited from the SSP and



                                                     - 9 -

PWP components, and the 2003 BA indicates that, under the SSP component, the following people and
methods were used:

    ü         Church, village headman, Members of Parliament, Health Surveillance Assistants identified
              beneficiaries
    ü         Chairman goes to village with written names of needy orphans
    ü         Club members or CBOs identify beneficiaries
    ü         Entire community did orphan count
    ü         Volunteer poverty assessment committees identify beneficiaries
    ü         Beneficiaries are identified through guardians who go to register
    ü         Sponsored agency selects beneficiaries
    ü         Project sub-committees identify beneficiaries

Clearly, some of these methods were neither harmonized nor participatory. Additionally, under PWP, a
self-targeting wage (20% below the market minimum wage rate) was used as a means of targeting, but led,
in some instances, to the exclusion of the deserving and inclusion of the non- deserving due to high levels of
labor supply. As noted previously, while the BA findings show that communities considered the wage rate
below the market wage rate, the case study on Malawi and Zambia concluded that MASAF was paying
above the market wage rate. The huge labour supply, lack of opportunities and the slow pace of wage
revision may have led to the perception that the PWP wage rate was below the market wage rate.
However, community perceptions need to be interpreted with the knowledge that this was a safety net,
meant to provide incremental income to the poor. The experiences from the MASAF/CARE pilot, where
savings are combined with PWP, are expected to generate lessons that will improve targeting in the future.

Limited capacity in technical supervision. There was evidence of limited capacity in technical supervision.
Communities interviewed during the 2003 BA attested to lack of technical capacity thus- "in some schools,
the quality of infrastructure was poor...one of the sampled schools had deep cracks on the walls while the
floors had many potholes. At another school, nearly all the toilets had sank in...In this case, it is apparent
that there was no engineering supervision to advise". Discussions with the MU confirmed that the technical
capacity at the MU and zone level was weak because this was meant to be the responsibility of the District;
this compromised the quality of sub-projects in some cases. Building the capacity of sectoral staff at
district and line ministry levels could minimize this problem.

Lack of Standard Operating Bills of Quantities. To facilitate cost effectiveness in the delivery of the
sub-projects, as well as taking into account different geographic requirements, it would have been helpful
for communities, as well as other stakeholders, to have had access to Standard Operating Bills of
Quantities which were appropriate to their literacy levels. The preparation of these would have aided in
more accurate costing of sub-projects.

Clarification of Roles and Responsibilities under SSP. The BA points to the need to clarify the roles of
participants, in particular the PSC, which is supposed to serve as a link between the implementing CBO,
direct beneficiaries and the wider community. Although steps were taken to clarify this, improved
accountability and transparency would go a long way in empowering the vulnerable communities.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$76.10 million, with IDA providing US$66 million, GOM
providing US$3.9 million, and communities contributing US$6.3 million. The actual/latest estimate shows
that IDA contributed US$64.46 million, GOM provided US$3.67 million and communities contributed



                                                     - 10 -

US$9.2 million, approximately a 46% increase over the original estimate. Similar to other Projects in the
portfolio, MASAF also experienced delays in receiving counterpart funds, although by the Project closing
date all of the arrears had been repaid. As a result of MASAF II becoming effective while MASAF I was
still under implementation, there was an initial delay of approximately 9 months before any significant
disbursements were made from MASAF II as communities identified sub-projects and had them processed
by Districts.

During implementation, the allocations to the PWP and SSP components were increased as a result of the
drought which affected communities' abilities to provide the requisite contribution, and by the demand on
these components. The PWP and SSP components stimulated and supported the traditional coping
mechanisms which rely on extended family mechanisms, reinforcing community livelihood systems. As a
result of MASAF's success in this area, DFID provided funding for a PWP as part of the National Safety
Nets Strategy for Malawi. The support, US$4.25 million in 2001/2, funded a CARE PWP pilot in four
districts to test targeting approaches and determine the appropriate wage rate for PWPs to have an impact
on poverty. MASAF procedures were utilized for this support. DFID provided to MASAF an additional
US$7.67 million covering 2002/04 for improving livelihoods through PWPs.

Due to the delays in the start-up, the impact of the drought on the CSP component, and the promise to fully
utilize the Credit funds, the closing date was extended from May 31, 2003 to November 30, 2003.
However, in addition to the US$0.76 million exchange rate loss that the Credit experienced, and
notwithstanding assurances to the contrary, with the attention of staff focused on the preparation of
MASAF 3, an equal amount was cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
MASAF was established in 1995 before the decentralization policy was established and, as a result, it was
working directly with communities and district teams of civil servants. When the decentralization
framework was put in place in 2000, MASAF further involved the district staff in project selection, field
and desk appraisal and technical monitoring and supervision. Capacity building of the district staff was an
integral activity of the project. In addition, some of the studies undertaken by MASAF have been put at the
disposal of the districts for use. Recognizing the need to further strengthen decentralization and ensure
sectoral linkages without losing gains in community empowerment achieved under MASAF I and II, the
design of MASAF 3 took a phased approach to integrating its operations into district development planning
Framework adopted by Local Authorities (LAs) ­ helping each LA meet agreed delivery benchmarks
defined by the sector. It is expected that this approach will further strengthen the decentralization agenda.




                                                     - 11 -

The community development approach under MASAF has been successful. Principles of community
contribution, and procedures to involve communities in planning, design and implementation were
emphasized as sustainability elements. For example, PMCs were established to build schools, and hand
over to school management committees at completion, and community water management committees were
provided skills for borehole maintenance. Skills were also transferred to district staff especially in
appraisal, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects for purposes of maintenance and sustainability.

Experiences in MASAF I and other regions show a positive correlation between community participation
and sustainability of community sub-projects. A number of sectors have adopted the MASAF approach for
community-based activities. In support of this approach, each relevant sector designated a desk officer that
acted as a conduit between the sector ministry and MASAF. The advantages of this approach were many:
(i) each sector internalized lessons learnt in an attempt to make recurrent costs of the assets created; (ii)
communities take ownership of the assets and they take care of them; and (iii) some of the activities not
financed by MASAF have been taken over by other development projects/stakeholders. Maintenance of
roads, bridges and health units remained poor partly due to the public nature of these sub-projects but also
due to inadequate technical and financial support from line ministries.

Overall the sustainability of assets created under MASAF are rated likely.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MASAF II was implemented largely through a decentralized framework involving communities, LA
employees, NGOs, the private sector and line ministries. Attempts were made to build capacities of the
various stakeholders during the project. Realizing the achievements made during MASAF I and II, GOM
requested a third operation in order to build on the successes. Under MASAF 3, improved facilitation will
allow communities to articulate their priority development concerns within the social funds criteria and the
district planning framework. Priorities that emerge outside the project menu will be linked to other
development programs. As was true in MASAF I and II, eligible sub-projects are to be derived from
activities that largely deliver a community good rather than an individual benefit. The activities will be
within the approved District Development Plan based on village action plans reflecting priority community
needs. The PWP will continue to be implemented by LAs, and the SSP will continue to be implemented
through NGOs/CBOs who have a history of working with such groups. MASAF 3 expects to gradually
build the capacity of the Districts to take over the responsibility of funding communities, NGOs/CBOs so
as to improve the sustainability of activities within their Districts. The transitional arrangement is rated
satisfactory.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The Project was in line with the CAS and the GOM Poverty
Alleviation Strategy. A PHRD grant of US$500,000 (TF025443), requested by GOM for IDA
administration, provided technical assistance in the preparation of MASAF II. The Grant funded studies
relating to the regulatory framework, BA analysis and participatory approaches, evaluation of the on-going
PWP and CSP components, and preparation of the SSP component, among others. The files indicate that
Malawi benefited tremendously from this funding, as 90% of the studies were carried out by local
consultants/institutions. The pre-appraisal mission of April/May 1998 was upgraded to an appraisal, and
the Project was negotiated in July 1998, approved by the Board in October 1998 and declared Effective on
February 10, 1999. While the sub-project components were repeaters, the design took into consideration
lessons learned during the implementation of MASAF I, and a new component (SSP) was included to


                                                      - 12 -

respond to the needs of the vulnerable who were not catered for under the other components. The
preparation team studied the operating environment, articulated the possible risks and proposed mitigation
measures. The technical, financial and administrative issues were well addressed during the design.

7.2 Supervision:
There were four changes in Task Team Leaders during implementation, but only one change in key staff
supporting the Project. Supervision resources were adequate, and MASAF II was supervised on a
semi-annual basis; a mid-term review was undertaken in February 2002. Ratings provided in the Project
Status Report were realistic, and the review teams comprised the requisite skills including staff in the
Country Office, and at the appropriate times. From mid-term onwards, efforts were made to harmonize the
timing of the reviews with DFID, who was providing parallel support to the PWP component; these efforts
continued to be strengthened during implementation with a view to complementing each other skills and
leveraging resources.

The Bank worked with the MU to guide implementation and ensured that the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was complied with. The supervision missions devoted significant efforts into capacity
and team building, and mutual learning efforts as evidenced by the issues covered under the various Aide
Memoires. The Bank team quickly responded to issues, including those that required amending the DCA
with respect to the Special Account and reallocations. The Bank, however, in some instances did not live
up to its business standards relating to procurement turnaround times; fortunately this did not lead to major
delays in activities. Notwithstanding these shortcomings, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The GOM prepared a project concept document, requested the Bank for support, prepared the
pre-appraisal/appraisal jointly with the Bank team, negotiated and fulfilled effectiveness conditions. The
design process was participatory. Design studies were undertaken, and workshops and other stakeholder
meetings were financed through the PHRD Grant. The preparation team included line ministry staff, Local
Government officials, donors and other agencies, and took into account lessons gained from MASAF I. The
preparation of the credit by the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
There was high level political support for MASAF II, evidenced through briefs to His Excellency the
President by the preparation and supervision missions, meetings held with various Ministers and Permanent
Secretaries and district political leadership. The Board of Directors comprised of eminent Malawians who
provided policy guidance and ensured that the MU had competent staff. Within the limitations of a weak
decentralization framework coupled with weak technical capacities at District level, the sub-project cycle
process was supported by District staff. In the case of SSPs, implementation was through NGOs, with
implementation by communities and Districts in the case of CSPs and PWPs respectively. While there
were continued delays in the receipt of counterpart funds, these were ultimately provided. On the basis of
the foregoing, performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency's performance is rated satisfactory. The MU was responsible for preparing the
project documents, and facilitated IDA reviews. The MU made every effort to ensure that the Project
complied with the DCA and GOM guidelines. It guided the technical implementation of the Project by
providing on-the-spot answers to implementation questions. Staffing of the MU was adequate, with the


                                                    - 13 -

exception of M&E. The MU hosted international visitors representing countries that were interested in
studying the operations of successful social funds. In some cases the staff provided technical assistance
both within Malawi and abroad. The MU adhered to the principles of a social fund by remaining
autonomous and protecting the project from political pressure. At the end of the project, the MU organized
an intensive learning implementation completion workshop through which participants gave feedback on
the successes of the project and shared the lessons learnt. Notwithstanding its numerous successes, the
implementation of a strong M&E system to capture data on a regular basis continued to elude it, resulting
in a failure to produce consolidated quarterly and annual reports in a timely manner; the lack of a robust
computerized tracking system contributed to a failure to capture the outcome indicators.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Transparency and Accountability: Development communication has emerged as a critical area of ensuring
accountability and transparency. The IEC continued to be the oil that facilitated MASAF II operations. It
synthesized experiences from communities, local authorities and NGOs into useful knowledge and
information that contributed to increased and informed community participation in the sub-project
implementation process as well as accountability at the community level. Future operations will need to
retain Development Communication as an integral element of the Project design.

Effectiveness of Safety Nets Interventions: The Project demonstrated that in social funds, District managed
public works and community development activities can work side by side. The need for PWP to be better
linked to a productive investment like a savings activity, as piloted by CARE, has emerged as a better
approach. This can be made even more successful by building on the social capital formed through the
various PMCs under PWP and PSCs under SSP to create savings and investment organizations.

Ownership: Thorough appraisal processes (extended participatory rural appraisals as well as desk and
field appraisals) contribute to the building of ownership.

Performance by Sectors: The provision of quality and timely service packages to communities requires
better linkage between the work of the districts and central government officials responsible for ensuring
that the resources are available to meet recurrent costs for community interventions.

Harnessing social capital to create economic capital: MASAF I and II experiences with community
participation has shown the potency of social capital as a vehicle for meeting economic ends, which would
lead to a direct impact on poverty at the individual and household levels.

Standard Operating Bills of Quantities: The implementation of CDD program such as MASAF, where
acquisition of goods and services for the delivery of sub-projects involves many actors requires that costs
for the types of infrastructure components funded are more or less estimated with a greater degree of
accuracy. This not only facilitates cost effectiveness in the delivery of the Project, but also takes account of
differing requirements for geographic location and the literacy levels of some of the implementers.

Bank Supervision and Capacity Building: An enormous amount of time by the supervision missions went
into mutual learning and team building for capacity building as evidenced by the issues covered under the
Aide Memoires. This is a good practice.



                                                     - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 15 -

                          PROGRESS TOWARDS INDICATORS As At March 2004


INDICATOR                               TARGET       ACHIEVEMENT          REMARK

1.0 National Indicators
1.1 Budget allocated to Social Sectors 5%           Social expenditure as
% increase between 1998 and 2002                    ratio to GDP was 9%
                                                    in 1998/1999 and
                                                    rose to 10.9% in
                                                    2001/2002
1.2 Per capita income % increase        180%        7.06%                According to the Economic Report
between 1998 and 2002                                                    2003
1.3 % decrease of people living under 10%           None                 No change from 1998, currently IHS
the poverty line by 2002                                                 is under way and information will be
                                                                         available in 2005
1.4 Total population with increased     3.0 million 3.2 million          Beneficiaries under CSP, PWP and
access to infrastructure                                                 SSP

2.0 Community Sub Projects
    Component
2.1. Total number of community          Not set     12,130
sub-project requests received
2.2. Total number of community          2,164       2,255
sub-projects funded.
2.3. Total number of community          2,164       2,216                39 not completed by EOP
sub-projects completed
2.4 % of women participating in        39%           38.1%               99% achievement of this target
PMCs
2.5 Proportion (% share) of women       50%          56%                  Composition of women higher
in WPCs.                                                                  than men in WPCs
2.6 Number of public and private        2,900        614 persons          Comprises village head persons,
sector persons trained in CSP           persons                           Group Village head persons and
(excluding PMCs)                                                          ward councilors
2.7 Percentage of infrastructure        100%         98.2%                Some health facilities are waiting
(schools, heath units and other) used,                                    for staff.
managed and maintained
2.8 Proportion of Water Point           100%         98%                  Some WPCs in Blantyre Zone
Committee (WPCs) trained in CBM                                           still not trained.
for water facilities.
2.9No. of urban works (CSP)            100           93                   These projects are also included in
Completed                                                                 2.2 and 2.3

3.0 Public Works Program (PWP)
3.1 Number of sub-projects requests Not set          1,279                Based on requests from District
received.                                                                 Assemblies using Vulnerability
                                                                          Assessment Mapping.
3.2 Number of sub-projects funded       286          382
3.3 Number of sub-projects                                               6 not completed by EOP
completed.                              286          376
3.4 No. of individuals that received at 720,000     535,676              Average project duration is 8-9
least 2 months wages (IDA) 1998 ­                                        months. Number of participants per




                                                     - 16 -

2003                                                       project was not 630 as planned but
                                                           300.
3.5 Number of households benefiting 80,000      119,039    Per Zone quarterly reports
from employment.
3.6 Number of women in receipt of    100,000    244,274    Per Zone quarterly reports
wages for at least two months.
3.7 % share of subproject costs      40 %        46 %       Per Zone quarterly reports.
accounting for unskilled labor wages.

3.8 No of District Assembly                                195 councillors
Councillors oriented                 300        302
3.9 Number of Assembly and                                  107 senior staff
sectoral staff oriented.
3.10. Total number of people         3,400       3,508      (a) District - 405, cashiers - 39 and
trained at sub-project level                                (b) foremen - 452, PMCs - 2,712
         (a)   District Level                    444
         (b)   Project Level                    3,164
3.11 % of women in PWP PMCs          50 %        25%



4.0 Sponsored Sub-projects
Component (SSP)
4.01 Total number of sponsored       Demand     1,344
sub-project requests received        Driven
4.02 Total number of sponsored       43         384
sub-projects funded
4.03 Total number of sponsored       43         346        -10 cancelled due to gross
projects completed.                                        mismanagement of funds
                                                           -28 not completed by EOP
4.04 Total number of people          CBO/NGO    252,686
benefiting from sub-projects.        dependent.
- No of orphans                      Not set    209,832
- No. of elderly                     Not set    4,698
- No. of street children             Not set    40
- No. of chronically ill and those   Not set    18.154
affected by HIV/Aids
- No. of people with disabilities    Not set    20,962
4.05 Proportion (%) of females       Not set     60%
benefiting from sub-projects.
4.06 Proportion (%) of women         50 %        54%
participating in committees (PSCs).
4.07 Number of NGOs / CBOs           43         275
trained in project cycle management
in SSP
4.8 Number of PSC members            430        3,250
trained




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Enhanced and sustainable provision of and     CSP: 1,100 subprojects - 1,055 water           CSP 2,255, PWP 382, SSP 384
use of resource endowments by beneficiary     subprojects; PWP 286 subprojects; SSP: 43
communities through a 25% increase in the     subprojects
number of CSP, PWP, SSP projects
aproved, implemented and completed by End
of Project

Improved access, quality coverage,            3 million more people will have access and     3.2million
sustainability and use of social services by  use
beneficiaries, including marginalized groups

Enhanced capacity of implementing agencies 6,400 trained and using their skills              16,054 people in PMCs under PWP, CSP
to manage and implement projects at                                                          and CBOs
community level

Increased income of targeted beneficiaries    720,000 persons received 2 month salary        535,676 persons received at least 2 months
through temporary employment                                                                 of salary


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Capacity of beneficiary communities to        275 communities trained; 30% completed         2,899 committees out of 3,021 trained in,
identify, prioritize, supervise, monitor and  projects per quality standards; 25% projects   among other things, asset maintenance i.e.,
operate projects are improved and             maintained after completion                    96% completed projects
strengthened; 30% projects completed per
quality standards; 25% of subprojects
maintained afer completion


Community subprojects implemented, safety 2,164 CSP subprojects implemented; 286             2,255 CSP, 382 PWP, 384 SSP
net programs established and in operation     PWP subprojects established; 43 SSP
and SSP projects implemented                  subprojects implemented


NGOs and private sector agencies trained in 10 agencies trained                              275 agencies trained
SSP project cycle management


Women's participation in MASAF activities     30% increase in women's participation in       29% increase in women in PMCs, 56% of
increased and enhanced                        PMC; 50% of maintenance committee              women in maintenance committee and
                                              members are women; 100,000 women               244,274 employed in PWP
                                              employed in the PWP


Environmental impact assessed and             1395 environmental impact assessments          Almost all sub-projects subjected to
mitigation measures taken                     carried out                                    environmental impact assessment, since it
                                                                                             was built into the sub-project cycle


Project relevant studies on impact            21 studies completed                           16 studies completed; funding for future role
assessment, future role of project                                                           of project funded from PHRD grant of
management and beneficiary assessments                                                       MASAF 3
completed


PMU capacity for M & E increased              Quarterly reports on output indicators issued; 16 quarterly consolidated reports against the
                                              yearly report on developmental objective       target of 24; 4 annual reports against the
                                              indicators issued; yearly report on Goal/CAS target of 5; 1 BA which gives contributions on
                                              indicators issued                              CAS indicators

1End of project




                                                                 - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                             Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                             US$ million      US$ million
Community Subprojects                                           51.10             50.98             100
Public Works Program                                            13.10             13.98             107
Sponsored Subprojects                                            0.50              4.22             843
Capacity Enhancement                                             3.90              3.46              89
Incremental Operating Costs                                      7.50              4.69              63

Total Baseline Cost                                             76.10             77.33
                        Total Project Costs                     76.10             77.33
                  Total Financing Required                      76.10             77.33




Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent) at
Appraisal

          Category                                     Procurement Method
                                ICB        NCB       Community         Other      NBF       Total
                                                     Participation
1. Community Subprojects        0.00       0.00         44.60            3.0      6.69      54.36
                                                       (42.42)          (3.0)              (45.42)

2. Works- PWP                   0.00       0.00         12.78           0.68      0.06      13.51
                                                       (12.14)         (0.66)              (12.80)
3. Sponsored Subprojects        0.00       0.00          0.43           0.13      0.00       0.56
                                                        (0.41)         (0.12)               (0.53)

4. Equipment, Furniture         0.00       0.40          0.00           0.03      0.00       0.43
and Supplies                              (0.40)                       (0.03)               (0.43)

5. Consultants, Training        0.00       0.00          0.00           4.18      0.00       4.18
and Workshops                                                          (4.14)               (4.14)
6. Incremental Operating        0.00       0.00          0.00           2.68      0.43       3.11
costs                                                                  (2.68)               (2.68)
Total                           0.00       0.40         57.87           10.69     7.17      76.14
IDA                                       (0.40)       (54.97)         (10.62)             (66.00)


Notes: Numbers in parenthesis refer to the amount financed by International Development Association.


Annex 2c Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent) -Actual




                                                - 19 -

            Category                                 Procurement Method
                               ICB       NCB      Community        Other       NBF      Total
                                                  Participation
  1. Community Subprojects    0.00        0.00        42.48         0.00       8.50     50.98
                                                     (40.36)                           (40.36)

  2. Works- PWP               0.00        0.00        13.98         0.00       0.00     13.98
                                                     (13.28)                           (13.28)
  3. Sponsored Subprojects    0.00        0.00        3.52          0.00       0.70      4.22
                                                     (3.34)                             (3.34)

  4. Equipment, Furniture     0.33        0.04        0.00          0.25       0.00      0.62
  and Supplies                (0.33)    (0.03)                     (0.20)               (0.56)

  5. Consultants, Training    0.00        0.00        0.00          3.46       0.00      3.46
  and Workshops                                                    (3.46)               (3.46)
  6. Incremental Operating    0.00        0.00        0.00          4.07       0.00      4.07
  costs                                                            (3.46)               (3.46)
  Total                       0.33        0.04        59.98         7.78       9.20     77.33
  IDA                         (0.33)    (0.03)       (56.98)       (7.12)              (64.46)


  Notes: Numbers in parenthesis refer to the amount financed by International Development
  Association.
  Financing arrangements combined Equipment as part of Incremental Costs.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
       Component            Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                         IDA       Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.       CoF.   IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Community Subprojects   42.60      2.20       6.30      40.38      2.12       8.50   94.8    96.4   134.9
Public Works Program    12.50      0.60                 13.28      0.70              106.2  116.7
Sponsored Subprojects   0.50       0.10                 3.34       0.18       0.70   668.0  180.0
Capacity Enhancement    3.90                            3.46                         88.7
Incremental Operating   6.50       1.00                 4.02       0.67              61.8    67.0
Costs




                                               - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                Comparison of Construction Cost of MASAF with that of other Organizations

                                                               MASAF           Percentage
      Project                              Cost $'000        Cost $'000         Difference
Classroom Block      DFID                      15.0              9.5               36.7
Single Pit Latrine   DFID                      1.4               0.4               71.4
Borehole             DFID                     4.40               3.2               27.3
Classroom            GOM Building             15.0               9.5               36.7
                     Dept
Single Pit Latrine   GOM Building             1.5                0.7               53.3
                     Dept
Maternity Block      GOM Building             26.2               20.3              22.5
                     Dept
Water Borehole/Tank GOM Building              16.2               8.0               50.6
                     Dept
Admin Block          GOM Building             8.1                3.5               56.8
                     Dept
Bridge 9M ­ Single   National Roads           47.8               36.3              24.1
Span                 Authority
Classroom Block      DANIDA                   22.5               9.7               56.9
Borehole             DANIDA                    4.4               3.2               27.3
Source: January 2003, "Review of cost effectiveness and Design Standards." EMC Jatula Associates Malawi




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              01/28/1998                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2); WATER &
                                             SANITATION (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/14/1998                6    TEAM LEADER(1);
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR.
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)

              10/15/1998                4    TEAM LEADER(1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                             ECONOMIST(1)

              12/05/1998                7    TEAM LEADER(1);
                                             OPERATIONS (1); FMS (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1); MIS
                                             (1); INFRASTRUCTURE (1)

 Supervision

              03/16/1999                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1); FMS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1)

              10/04/1999                9    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                                             ECONOMIST(1); RURAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1); FMS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1) MIS (1)

              04/15/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             COMMUNICATIONS (1); FMS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1)



                                              - 22 -

      12/07/2000     3 TEAM LEADER (1);            S     S
                       COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1)

      02/19/2001     4 TEAM LEADER(1); ENV/        S     S
                       WATER/GENDER (1); RURAL
                       DEVELOPMENT (1); PUBLIC
                       HEALTH (1)

      09/03/2001     8 TEAM LEADER (1);            S     S
                       OPERATIONS (1);
                       ENV./WATER/GENDER (1);
                       COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                       FMS; HIV/AIDS (1);
                       NUTRITION (1)
                       ECONOMIST(1)

      02/04/2002    11 TEAM LEADER (1);            S     S
                       OPERATIONS (2);
                       ENV/WATER/GENDER (1);
                       COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                       RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                       FMS (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                       DFID (1); UNICEF (2)

      10/10/2002     3 TEAM LEADER (1);            S     S
                       OPERATIONS (1);
                       COMMUNICATIONS (1)

      05/26/2003    12 TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL     S     S
                       DEVELOPMENT (1); FMS (1);
                       COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                       INFORMATION OFFICER (1);
                       PROCUREMENT (1);
                       ARCHITECT (1); AUDITOR
                       (1); INDIGENOUS
                       KNOWLEDGE (1); DFID
                       (ENGINEER, DEPUTY
                       PROGRAM MANAGER) (2);
                       CARE MALAWI (1)

ICR
      11/10/2003    12 TEAM LEADER(1);             HS    S
                       SOCIAL FUNDS (1);
                       COMMUNICATIONS (1);
                       SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                       (1); FMS (1); M&E (1)
                       PROCUREMENT (2);
                       DFID (SAFETY NETS,
                       ECONOMIST, ENGINEER,
                       RURAL LIVELIHOODS)
                       (4)



                       - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         141.40                          568.60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                34.00                         108.50
  Supervision                        149.89                          933.20
  ICR                                  26.30                         145.10
  Total                              351.59                        1,755.40




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         participatory demand driven
development
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
capacity building of Local
Government staff, NGOs/CBOs, MU
staff, PMCs and PSCs




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Beneficiary Assessment by PAG (November 2003)
The Listenership, Readership, Viwership Survey of MASAF's Development Communication Products
Implementation Experiences and Challenges of Sponsored Sub-projects: A report of CBO/NGO
Experience Sharing Workshops
The Integrated Household Survey (2000)
Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2002)
Qualitative Impact Monitoring of the Poverty Alleviation Policies and Programmes in Malawi (2002)
Social Funds: A Review of World Bank Experiences (2002)
Poverty Reduction During Democratic Transition: The Malawi Social Action Fund (2003)
The Social Funds Experience in Africa - Scaling up of Poverty Reduction in Malawi (2004)




                                                 - 27 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Highlights from the findings have been provided in the text, and the Report is available in the files.




                                                  - 28 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

              Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Workshop Report
                                           by
                                 Management International


ADC          AREA DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
CARE         COOPERATION OF ASSISTANCE AND RELIEF
             EVERYWHERE
CBO          COMMUNITY BASED ORGANISATIONS
CSP          COMMUNITY SUB PROJECTS
CSP          COMMUNITY SUB PROJECT
DA           DISTRICT ASSEMBLY
DC           DISTRICT COMMISSIONER
DDF          DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT FUND
DEC          DISTRICT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
DFID         DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
DLG          DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
FBO          FAITH BASED ORGANISATIONS
FC           FINANCIAL COOPERATION
GTZ          GERMAN AGENCY FOR TECHNICAL COOPERATION
HIV/AIDS     HUMAN IMMUNE-DEFICIENCY SYNDROME
IEC          INFORMATION EDUCATION COMMUNICATION
KISS         KNOWLEDGE AND INFORMATION SHARING SYSTEM
LA           LOCAL AUTHORITY
M&E          MONITORING AND EVALUATION
MASAF        MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND
MDG          MILLENIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS
MEP&D        MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
MGPDD        MALAWI-GERMAN PROGRAMME FOR DEMOCRACY
MI           MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL
MIM          MALAWI INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT
MIS          MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
MP           MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT
MU           MANAGEMENT UNIT
NACCEA       NATIONAL ADVOCACY COMMITTEE FOR COMMUNITY
             EMPOWERMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
NGO          NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANISATION
NRA          NATIONAL ROAD AUTHORITY
PAG          PARTICIPATORY ASSESSMENT GROUP
PMC          PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
PRA          PARTICIPATORY RURAL APPRAISALS
PSC          PROJECT SUPPORT COMMITTEE
PWP          PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMME
SNP          SAFETY NET PLUS
SSP          SPONSORED SUB-PROJECTS
TAP          TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY PRO.
TC           TECHNICAL COOPERATION
TV           TELEVISION
TVM          TELEVISION MALAWI
UNDP         UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
VAP          VILLAGE ACTION PLAN
VDC          VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE




                                          - 29 -

1.0 Introduction

This report sets out the proceedings and recommendations of the Intensive Learning and Implementation
Review Workshop for MASAFII that took place at the Malawi Institute of Management (MIM) on the 19th
and 20th of November 2003. Management International (MI) on behalf of the Malawi Social Action Fund
(MASAF) and its partners such as the World Bank and Department for International Development (DFID)
facilitated the Workshop.

After this introduction, the report provides a background to the workshop, objectives of the workshop,
methodology, workshop proceedings, emerging issues, lessons learnt from the implementation of
MASAFII, recommendations and way forward, and a conclusion.

2.0 Background

MASAFII will close on November 30, 2003 and is currently preparing to implement MASAFIII. Its main
objective was to enhance and sustain the provision and use of resource endowments by beneficiary
communities, which will contribute to poverty reduction. It aims to:

a)       address the need for socio-economic infrastructure development in rural and urban areas;
b)       support safety net programmes through creation of temporary employment for the very poor and
         financing initiatives to assist the most vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children,
         persons with disabilities, the aged and those affected by HIV/AIDS, and
c)       enhance in-country capacity to identify, prioritise and implement projects by training of
         stakeholders, at national, regional, district and community level.

One of the preparatory activities to be undertaken as MASAFII transits into MASAFIII is to conduct a
workshop with local authorities (LAs), sector ministries, donors and Non Governmental Organisations to
deliberate on the experiences and lessons of the past 5 years of its implementation. (See Annex 1 for the
Participant List)

3.0 Workshop Objectives

3.1 Main Objective

The main objective of the Workshop was to facilitate the compilation of the Intensive Learning
Implementation Completion Report by:

·        Drawing on lessons from MASAFII implementation as seen through the eyes of the beneficiaries
         and other stakeholders.
·        Providing a closure for MASAFII before the commencement of MASAFIII, whose design features
         are quite different from its predecessor.

3.2 Specific Objectives

The specific objectives of the Workshop included:

·        Identifying the achievements and challenges in general by MASAF.
·        Hear reports on the Feedback from the Community Exchange Programme and the CBOs
         Workshop as well as MASAF's experience working with local development structures.
·        Discuss the findings of the Beneficiary Assessment currently underway and the recent DFID
         Evaluation of the Public Works Programme, and the Listenership, Readership, Viewership
         Survey of the MASAF Development of Communication Products, and perceptions of funding
         agencies.
·        Analyse the implications of the findings and the lessons with regard to the MASAFIII programme.
·        Develop recommendations for the way forward.



                                                      - 30 -

The full terms of reference that guided the facilitation of the Workshop are attached as Annex 2.

4.0 Workshop Methodology

The methodology of the Workshop included:

·        Preparatory consultations, review of documentation and arrangements for workshop facilitation.
         (See Documents reviewed at Annex 3)
·        Presentations by MASAF, Consultants, and Funding Agencies. (See Annex 4 for Presentations).
·        Plenary Discussions after each presentation.
·        Group Discussions to have more in-depth understanding of the issues presented about MASAFII.
         Participants were divided into three groups according to MASAF components of CSP, PWP, and
         SSP. There was also an effort made to ensure that MASAF officials were represented in all the
         groups to clarify issues and to up date the knowledge of participants. Further, all the consultants
         were evenly spread out in the groups to facilitate their inputs into the discussions. The facilitators
         joined the groups to help them appreciate the dynamics around the issues being tackled and the
         background to recommendations made. Groups were furnished with questions by the facilitators
         to aid in more focused discussions of the issues arising from the presentations. (See Annex 5 for
         List of Questions for Day 1 and 2 of the Workshop).
·        Group presentation of issues and recommendations. (See Annex 6 for Group Presentations).
·        Plenary Discussions after Group Presentations to come to a consensus on issues, lessons, and
         recommendations.

These are in turn elaborated below.

5.0 Workshop Proceedings

5.1 Presentation by MASAF

MASAF officials made presentations on the achievements and challenges of implementing MASAFII to
set the context for subsequent presentations and discussions. The presentation by MASAF also included
Feedback from the Community Exchange Programme and the CBOs Workshop and its experience in
working with local development structures.

Presentations by MASAF confirmed the widely held belief that the programme has done well in terms of
improving the lives of the common man, particularly at village level through the provision of
infrastructure such as roads, schools, clinics etc and through safety nets programmes such as those
under the PWP and the SSP.

The Feedback from the Community Exchange Programme revealed that communities can learn from
each other's experiences and that they highly valued such exchanges. It also revealed the communities'
apprehension with the transference of certain MASAF responsibilities to the District Commissioner in the
design of MASAFIII.

The CBOs Workshop was primarily about raising awareness in the community concerning Sponsored
Sub-Projects (SSP) and facilitating networking, collaboration and coordination of programmes. During
the workshop, it was revealed that issues of capacity among CBOs affected the implementation of some
activities under MSAFII.

MASAF's experience working with local development structures indicates that significant levels of
tension existed between itself and local authorities.

The MASAF officials expressed concern during their presentation at what they perceived to be over
reliance and dependency on it by communities. They also expressed some reservations with the calibre



                                                     - 31 -

of staff that represent sectors at district level, noting that many of them lack sufficient authority to make
binding decisions on their Ministry Headquarters, thus compromising the quality of MASAF projects. In
addition, MASAF officials expressed concern on what they perceived to be multiple donor approaches,
which they identified as one of the main sources for creating confusion at community level. Further,
MASAF expressed concern at the capacity of communities to provide the required contribution due to
natural resource constraints.

 During plenary discussions on the MASAF presentation participants raised the following issues:

·        MASAF has facilitated the development of structures such as clinics without coordinating with
         the responsible Ministry leading to a number of `white elephants'.
·        There were reservations expressed by some at the quality of the physical structures built.
·        Concerns were expressed on the wage rate. It was generally seen to be too low to pull
         beneficiaries out of absolute poverty.
·        Some of the CBOs were not fully conversant with guidelines, procedures and requirements for
         helping communities in the implementation of project activities.

5.2 Presentations by Consultants

Three groups of consultants were given an opportunity to present their findings and recommendations.

5.2.1    Beneficiary Assessment by Participatory Assessment Group (PAG)

A presentation was made by PAG that undertook the Beneficiary Assessment. The highlights from their
presentation included:

·        MASAF was largely seen by beneficiaries to have achieved its objectives.
·        Maintenance of school structures is a challenge because a School Committee that has not been
         trained replaces a trained Project Management Committee (PMC) at the end of construction.
·        Enrolment has been encouraged by the construction of structures, while compromising quality as
         teacher/pupil ratio has increased because of the Ministries inability to supply required teachers.
·        Improved access to services, although there are concerns about the range and quality of
         services provided.
·        Social capital built through skills training, autonomous management and direct financing.
·        Strong sense of ownership by the communities and hence a high degree of sustainability.
·        There were difficulties with low wages and with selection of PWP workers and also with late
         delayed payments.
·        The relationship between workers on PWP projects and the District Assembly (DA) was more of
         a boss and worker, other than development partners.
·        CBOs tend to identify problems of vulnerable groups in a manner that is not participatory.
·        VIP latrines were said not to meet standards. Many had fallen a few weeks after construction.

In plenary, participants raised the following issues:

·        There was need to reconcile the demand driven approach used under CSP with supply
         constraints to assure reasonable delivery of services.
·        There was a need to revisit the minimum wage rate under PWP in terms of what needs to be
         achieved. Is it getting people out of absolute poverty or getting them to be self-reliant?
·        There were Issues raised pertaining to the duration and nature of employment under PWP.
         There seems to be an over reliance on road construction at the expense of other activities that
         can help people generate income. In a lot of cases road projects were done outside the `hungry
         period'.
·        There were concerns raised about the quality of roads constructed. They were said to be falling
below standards.




                                                       - 32 -

·        Quality of construction in many MASAF projects seems to be compromised by the quality of
contractors engaged.

5.2.2 DFID Evaluation of the PWP

A presentation was made by consultants contracted by DFID to evaluate the PWP programme. The key
findings and recommendations of the study were:

·        Design Limitations of PWP
    ü Short term employment
    ü Seasonal inflexibility (interfere with harvest; and benefits not available in hungry period).
·        Low wage rate
    ü Primary targeting mechanism
    ü Jobs still oversubscribed
    ü Wage inadequate to meet even basic consumption needs.
    ü Study of the impact of higher wages (alternative targeting methods).
    ü Unlikely to contribute to poverty reduction.
·        Road standards constrained by:
    ü Minimum labour content
    ü Weak soils (rapid deterioration of earth roads)
    ü Local capacity
·        Recommendations
    ü Define minimum standards for district roads
    ü Training of supervisors
    ü Coordination of road funds by LAs/NRA
·        District Capacity
    ü Sub-project selection
    ü Late payment of wages
    ü New rules for MASAF funding to LAs
·        Monitoring
    ü Reliance on Beneficiary Assessments and Internal progress reports (technical)
    ü Baseline study as basis for future monitoring
    ü Use the new MIS
    ü DFID contribute to design of M&E system

Overall, the presentation concluded by noting that due to the existing challenges, the programme may
not adequately contribute to poverty reduction among the communities.

In plenary, participants raised the following issues:

·        Plenary agreed that guidelines do not exist and that they need to be developed.
·        The need to resolve the issue of wage rate either by market rate or by government minimum
rate.

    5.2.3 The Listenership, Readership, Viewership Survey

The study revealed that MASAF has managed to raise awareness of its programmes up to about 95 per
cent. However, most of this has not been "deliberate", but "spontaneous" or occasional. The study also
revealed that knowledge of its newest component, the SSP was low and that its communication strategy
did not sufficiently take into account the lack of what the presenter called a "reading culture", and the low
level of literacy. In addition, it was pointed out that the most effective way to communicate what MASAF
was doing was by pictures.

In plenary, participants raised the following issues:




                                                     - 33 -

·       There was a need to relate MASAF's communication strategy to the needs of viewers, such as
        their entertainment.
·       There was need to relate MASAF's communication strategy to the problems and challenges it
        faces, such as addressing the role of chiefs and politicians.
·       MASAF should strive to use existing communication establishments such as the Extension
        Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development.

    5.2.4 Perspectives of Funding Agencies

Two funding agencies were invited to make presentations on their experience with MASAF and to
indicate opportunities for collaboration under MASAFIII, namely GTZ and the UNDP. However, only GTZ
was in a position to make a presentation.
Highlights from the presentation by GTZ were as follows:

·       It has a programme that focuses on democratic decentralisation in the areas of: Support political
        capacity building (development) of the local elected leadership; Support to strengthening of the
        local revenue base of the DAs & the Development of capacity for the Technical Staff; Support to
        development of planning capacity for the technical staff; Support to the Management of the
        decentralisation process in Malawi. The programme is channelled through the Malawi-German
        Programme for Democracy and Decentralisation (MGPDD) in partnership with the Department of
        Local Government (DLG).
·       In terms of funding the districts; GTZ/Kfw in principle holds the view that the DDF should be used
        for funding district based activities, but awaits clarification of modalities to that end. It would want
        to see harmonisation of parallel funding mechanisms and harmonisation of planning and
        implementation structures (ADCs and VDCs) vis a vis structures of MASAF, etc.

In plenary, participants raised the following issues:

·       Clarification was sought on the coverage of GTZ programmes. Does it work in all the districts or
        in some? In response plenary was told that between 1996 and 2003 the efforts of GTZ were
        sporadic, depending on need. It has now adopted a country-wide approach, and is in the process
        of establishing zonal offices. The first one has been established in Rumphi, and subsequent
        offices will be established in all the other regions, with a view of being close to the
        decentralisation process.
·       They wanted to know the extent to which the GTZ programme helps with the DAs to resolve the
        issues of the presence of chiefs, councillors and Members of Parliament (MPs). In response
        plenary was told that Government is in the process of reviewing the Local Government Act, and
        engaged consultants who among other things are reported to have made recommendations
        relating to the membership of chiefs and MPS in the DA. Plenary was further informed that the
        recommendations are in draft form and await the approval of Cabinet.
·       Plenary was also informed that in the Zambian scenario chiefs have been removed from the DA
        or equivalent body to avoid bringing in undemocratic elements.
·       Concerns were expressed during plenary on the calibre of Councillors.

5.3 Group Discussions and Presentations

      5.3.1 Community Sub Projects (CSP)

In response to the questions posed to the group, highlights of its presentation are presented below.

·       A communication gap was said to exist between district staff and central government.
·       Limited and inefficient utilisation of resources.
·       The civil service was largely seen to lack commitment.
·       There was demonstrated incompetence of some government staff.
·       The process of devolution was seen to be slow.



                                                      - 34 -

·        PMCs should be given an opportunity to manage PWP projects under certain conditions.
·       There is inadequate capacity in research and monitoring and evaluation of MASAF activities.
·       MASAF should consider other capacity building measures apart from training such as community
        exchanges, resource supplies, and to put in place wider Knowledge and Information Sharing
        Systems (KISS).
·       The reduction of zonal offices would lead to more responsibilities being undertaken by the Local
        authorities, which were viewed to lack capacity. The support to the local authorities is likely to be
        less, which would mean that the quality of work produced by the LAs would be compromised.
·       The reduction in zonal offices will also signal a change in the role of Zone Managers from
        supervisory to advisory.
·       There are fears that focus on MASAF activities would suffer as a result of the reduction in zonal
        offices as LAs were seen to be overloaded with other responsibilities.

In plenary, the following observations and recommendations were made:

·       There was general consensus on the capacity of DAs being inadequate to take on responsibilities
        that were performed by Zone Managers, particularly in terms of following up on issues, as
        Directors of Planning and Development who are going to be the focal points have several other
        things to do.
·       DAs have protocols and formalities that tend to make it extremely difficult for communities to
        access them.
·       Challenges were noted with extending the role of PMCs to manage PWP projects, particularly
        were PMCs covered longer distances.

5.3.2 Public Works Programme (PWP)

In response to the questions posed to the group, highlights of its presentation are presented below.

·       The minimum wage is set in such a way as not to attract able people in other employment
        sectors to join MASAF funded projects.
·       The Group agreed to maintain the present wage rate in the meantime, while advocating for
        safety net plus on the following conditions: a) after looking at the impact of safety net plus
        results, b) cost of implementing the safety net plus, c) capacity of DA to implement SNP, and d)
        establishment of criteria for determining the wage rate.
·       The ideal employment period depended to some extent on the results of the safety net study
        indicated above.
·       Employment should be based on the lifespan of the project.
·       There should be an institutionalisation of safety net plus wages and savings for beneficiaries,
        which could be paid out during times of need.
·       Implementation of projects that are feasible during the hunger period, other than only focusing on
        roads.
·       There was a feeling that higher wages could not improve targeting, as this should be done
        through Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRAs) and wealth ranking.
·       Standards in the districts should be developed through a participatory approach involving all
        relevant players.
·       MASAF needs to strengthen its monitoring and evaluation.
·       MASAF should create forums for learning experiences by communities and other beneficiaries;
        support the capacitating of the resource base of DAs.
·       There is likely to be significant challenges in terms of implementing MASAFIII as DA capacity is
        minimal; there is political interference; demand of projects is higher than capacity; personality
        issues among stakeholders; and projects not community originated but rather politically
        influenced resulting in low community participation.

In plenary, the following observations and recommendations were made:




                                                    - 35 -

§      Government was considering raising the wage rate, although discussions seemed to be at early
       stage. DFID was willing to support a Study on the issue of wage rate.
§      There was consensus on the issue of targeting being achieved through extended PRAs.
§      There will be need for an institutional assessment to determine the real capacity needs of the
       DAs. Such an assessment should also look at what districts already have on the ground, instead
       of just focusing on the DA.
§      There was need for MASAF programmes to move from safety net to safety plus, as in that way
       people would be help over a long period of time.

5.3.3 Sponsored Sub Projects

In response to the questions posed to the group, highlights of its presentation are presented below.

·      Projects should be identified through beneficiaries and communities.
·      Capacity building should be included into the projects.
·      CBO and NGOs, need a strong/effective Project Support Committee (PSC) to act as a link
       between beneficiaries and the implementing agency.
·      There should be economic empowerment of the beneficiaries, e.g. maize mill ­ proceeds
       should be used for the benefit of the beneficiaries for operational purposes and finally for
       re-investment.
·      There should be balance between field and desk appraisal.
·      There should be a checklist to be used for field appraisal.
·      Need for awareness campaign on purpose of SSP.
·      There seems to be agreed procedures but shortfalls in implementation.
·      Provide broad guidelines on approaches to vulnerability reduction rather than a `menu' of
       projects, to promote innovative solutions.
·      Community shared targeting.
·      Self-targeting (e.g. people with disabilities).
·      Need for a system to aid in targeting. CBO targeting should be more focused e.g. targeting a
       group of vulnerable people rather than trying to do a range of activities to capture wider funding
       opportunities ­ but deliver a poor service.
·      There is a need for an effective M&E system to inform and refine programming. Community
       scorecards are one tool. SSP financing agreement is another.
·      Formation of a consortium to work together e.g. Action Aid in Salima being the chain of the
       NGOs intergoverning the DC chairs.
·      NGO and CBO to register with the DCs (a legal framework).
·      DA need to take stock of CBOs and NGOs operating in a particular area.
·      Donors understanding and more flexibility of the working of DA staff where a staff may be
       visiting different projects within a particular locality and want to share resources e.g. transport
       between projects.
·      The Transparency and Accountability programme within MASAF III will coordinate these
       responsibilities. The NACCEA provides a useful forum for stakeholders to monitor accountability
       issues.
·      Capacity building of DA, NGOs and communities should include: Materials, equipment,
       coordination, planning, exchange visits, and study visits.
·      It is important for DA resources to be rationalized and used effectively.
·      To strengthen capacity, there should be a streamlining of systems e.g. M&E, MIS at District
       level. This will consequently reduce pressure on the DA.
·      Services of the Regional Zone Office and Field Offices will be demand driven (Justification, 2
       Engineers, PRA Officers) and needs to be reviewed annually.
·      Handbooks will provide reference material.
·      Issues on community contribution ­Perception that bricks are the only important contribution
       (IEC) need clarity; guidelines of community contribution and flexibility on this.



                                                     - 36 -

·       Coordination failure leading to duplication e.g. borehole drilling close together.
·       Self help projects suffering because of MASAF (Re-directing interventions).
·       Over-supply of infrastructure thus overwhelming the line Ministry capacities. There is need for
        progress in line with capacity of line ministries.
·       More sensitization to DA on SSP.
·       Clear guidelines and an IEC to improve knowledge and understanding can reduce political
        interference and protect those approving projects.

In plenary, the following observations and recommendations were made:

·       There was a need to audit the resources at DAs level, if gaps are to be effectively addressed.
·       Capacities of the CBOs and Faith Based Organisations were neglected.
·       Communities should have a say in the performance of CBOs and FBOs.
·       The appraisal system should look at both direct and indirect beneficiaries.

6.0 Emerging Issues

Many issues emerged out of the presentations by MASAF, consultants and GTZ. These are highlighted
below according to component and those of a crosscutting nature:

 6.1 CSP

1.      Capacity of Local Assemblies
    a) Varying capacity levels in districts.
    b) Lack of familiarity with MASAF procedures, especially accounting ones.
    c) DPD's are not properly integrated into MASAF projects.
2.      There is likely to be disruption of MASAF activities if zonal offices are shut down abruptly.
3.      PMCs would have great difficulty managing PWP projects because of the logistics and design
principles.
4.      There is no mechanism for intra-district information sharing on resource allocation prior to
processing of projects.

 6.2 PWP

1.      Information on the wage rate is inadequate.
2.      Wages are often delayed.
3.      The employment period does not currently take into account other relevant factors such season
and duration.

6.3 SSP

1.      Inadequate capacity amongst key stakeholders for example CBOs and communities.
2.      Inadequate awareness of SSP among the stakeholders in general.
3.      Low perception and lack of clarity on ownership of projects by beneficiaries.
4.      Little benefits trickling down to the beneficiaries.
5.      There is very little coordination among NGOs, CBOs, and FBOs, leading to duplication of
services.

6.4 General Issues

1.      Inadequate coordination at all levels of the programme particularly at Local Authority level.
2.      Inadequate Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms.
3.      There is politics of identity among key stakeholders at the district level i.e Chiefs, MPS, and
Councillors.




                                                    - 37 -

7.0 Lessons Learnt from the Implementation of MASAF II

7.1 Positive

·       Community involvement, empowerment and ownership can lead to remarkable results.
·       Availability and knowledge of procedures and guidelines does greatly help stakeholders in the
        implementation of project activities.
·       Strong Leadership at political level and dedicated management can make a significant impact
        towards the achievement of set objectives.
·       A strong awareness campaign can generate a lot of demand for services from the beneficiaries.
·       It is possible to implement a programme across the political divide.
·       When planning is followed by implementation there is a lot of enthusiasm by communities in
        government projects.
·       Communities can benefit from well-targeted safety net programmes, even when they are
        planned in a top down fashion.

    72. Negative

·       Not carefully controlling or managing the demand for services from communities could in the
        long run endanger community involvement and participation.
·       When MASAF activities are not properly coordinated with those of sectors, there is likely to be
        poor services delivered.
·       When communication campaigns are not well packaged they tend not to generate much interest
        and enthusiasm about MASAF programmes, thus endangering the support of the targeted
        communities.
·       Political interference if not properly managed can be quite disruptive when implementing
        community programmes.
·        When activities of a new programme, such as MASAF are not properly synchronised or
        coordinated with traditional ways of delivering services, it does generate a lot of tension,
        competition, and duplication among stakeholders.
·       When political champions personalise programmes such as MASAF, it does tend to alienate
        other stakeholders.
·       When programmes such as MASAF are not properly coordinated with programmes with similar
        intent, there is likely to be significant disparities in how communities are handled.
·       Establishment of structures should not be an end in itself, but there maintenance once created.
·       There has to be a recognition that certain services cannot be delivered without the input of
        specialised technical services.
·       Safety net programmes only make sense where such inputs as wages are made available in
        good time and at reasonable rates.

8.0 Recommendations and Way Forward

8.1 CSP

1.      Capacity audits of Local Authorities should be undertaken as a basis for capacity building efforts.
2.      Zonal offices should not be shut down abruptly, but in a phased manner. They should be kept for
        at least a minimum of six months to allow for hands-on orientation of district staff to MASAF
        procedures and systems.
3.      PMCs should not manage PWP projects because of logistical problems and the difficulties in
        applying technical design principles.
4.      There should be a mechanism for intra-district information sharing on resource allocation prior to
        processing of projects.




                                                      - 38 -

8.2 PWP

1.      A Study should be undertaken to determine the wage rate, modalities for expediting the payment
        of wages and the employment period.

8.3 SSP

1.      A capacity assessment of CBOs and FBOs should be undertaken to facilitate the strengthening
        of their capacity to effectively deliver services to vulnerable and marginalized groups.
2.      A communication strategy should be devised that is appropriate for raising awareness on SSP
        activities.
3.      A role clarification exercise should be undertaken to clarify the roles and responsibilities of key
        players in delivering SSP services.
4.      Beneficiaries should be more involved in designing projects.

8.4 General

1.      Coordination mechanisms should be developed for stakeholders at various levels to enhance
coordination between them.
2.      Monitoring and Evaluation mechanisms should be strengthened to facilitate close monitoring of
        devolved MASAF activities.
3.      The MASAF communication strategy should include an aspect that addresses conflicts between
        Councillors, Chiefs and MPS.




9.0 Conclusion

In conclusion, the MASAFII can be said to have largely met its objectives, albeit at great cost in terms of
relations with crucial stakeholders at central and district levels. There are also indications that MASAF
structures may not meet strict technical standards, as low calibre inputs seem to have been used in a lot
of instances. There is therefore need for MASAFIII to pay particular attention to issues of coordination
and quality as it gets underway.
Intensive learning Implementation Completion Report
______________________________________________________________

                                                                                                     Annex 1

                                          LIST OF PARTICIPANTS

NO N                            ORGANISATION                  ADDRESS
    A
    M
    E

   1Mr S M Kakhobwe             M                             P/Bag 352         Lilongwe 3
                                A
                                S
                                A
                                F
                                M
                                U

   2Mr C E Mandala              MASAF MU                      P/Bag 352         Lilongwe 3
   3F N Mkandawire              M'mbelwa Assembly             P O Box 132       M'mbelwa



                                                     - 39 -

4M O Chimphepo         Nkhata Bay DA           P O Box 1     Nkhata Bay
5F L Mishael           TASAF                   P O Box 9381  Dar es Salaam
6H M Lende             Machinga DA             P/Bag 1       Machinga
7R Manjanja            MASAF PWP Zomba         P O Box 1370  Zomba
8C Gunda               MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
9C Nyasulu             MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
10C Kamwendo           MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
11S Kazira             MASAF CSP Mzuzu         P O Box 20350 Mzuzu 2
12A W C Nkhoma         MASAF Kasungu           P/Bag 142     Kasungu
13M H Kapatuka         MASAF Dwangwa           P/Bag 7       Dwangwa
14D A M Jangia         MASAF CSP Blantyre      P/Bag 5       Blantyre 6
15J H Wachepa          MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
16V Luwambala          MASAF Liwonde           P/Bag 8       Liwonde
17B Chifundo           MASAF CSP Zomba         P O Bo 1370   Zomba
18G C Mamba            Water Development       Lilongwe
19G Matiki             Water Development       Lilongwe
20N Botolo             CARE                    Lilongwe
21N Osborne            CARE                    Lilongwe
22F Chiweza            MASAF MU                P/Bag 352
23C Dzimadzi           Educ Consult            P O Box 1404  Zomba
24M Mphande            EP & D                  P O Box 30136 Lilongwe 3
25M Mizwa              MASAF SSP Lilongwe      P/Bag 105     Lilongwe
26A B Chidumu          MASAF SSP Mzuzu         P O Box 20350 Mzuzu 2
27Chimwemwe Chikusa    Chikusa Consultants     P O Box 1620  Lilongwe
28Efinita Banda        MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
29G Chobezga Manda     MASAF PWP Mzuzu         P O Box 20350 Mzuzu 2
30Leigh Stubblefield   DFID                    P O Box 30042 Lilongwe 3
31Janet Geddes         DFID                    London, UK
32Anna McCord          DFID                    C/o DFID
33Rob Geddes           DFID                    C/o DFID
34Ida Manjolo          MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
35H J Bimphi           MASAF CSP Lilongwe      P/Bag 105     Lilongwe
36H Kubwalo            MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
37G A Rapozo           Salima DA               P/Bag 15      Salima
38Winter Chinamale     MASAF PWP Lilongwe      P/Bag 105     Lilongwe
39Manuel Maoni         MASAF PWP Blantyre      P/Bag 5       Blantyre 6
40Godwin Kamtukule     MASAF Chikwawa          P O Box 299   Chikwawa
41Amanda Manjolo       MASAF Luchenza          P O Box 339   Luchenza
42George Chaguza       MASAF Ntcheu            P O Box 228   Ntcheu
43Harry Mwamlima       EP & D                  P O Box 30136 Lilongwe 3
44Ebrahim Jassat       World Bank              P O Box 2960  Harare
45Hope C Phillips      World Bank              Washington DC USA
46P C Mohan            World Bank              Washington DC USA
47N M Lenneiye         World Bank              Washington DC USA
48Paul Nkhoma          PAG/MCG                 P O Box 1806  Lilongwe
49Christopher Chambula PAG Lusaka              P O Box 51080 Lusaka
50Dr J T Milimo        PAG Lusaka              P O Box 51080 Lusaka
51Lloyd Sinoya         MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
52Simon Chirwa         MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
53Edward Kataika       MOH&P                   P O Box 30377 Lilongwe 3
54J L Khozi            MOEST                   P/Bag 328     Lilongwe 3
55S Chapola            MASAF MU                P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3


                                        - 40 -

56M G Tsoka        CSR - Zomba              P O Box 278   Zomba
57S Mchenga        MASAF MU                 P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
58P H Kabambe      Min of Agriculture       P O Box 30314 Lilongwe 3
59Booker Matemvu   MASAF MU                 P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
60G Chigona        GTZ                      P/Bag 387     Lilongwe 3
61Murphy Kajumi    MASAF MU                 P/Bag 352     Lilongwe 3
62Weston Seyama    MASAF SSP BT             P/Bag 5       Blantyre 6
63G Zimalirana     Ministry of Finance      P O Box 30049 Lilongwe 3
64R P Mwadiwa      Ministry of Gender
65F Kadewere       LGFC
66R F Tauka        Lilongwe DA                            Lilongwe
67H K Twabi        Mulanje DA                             Mulanje




                                     - 41 -

                                                                                                   Annex 2

   Terms of Reference For Facilitation and Managing the Intensive Learning and Implementation
                                              Review Workshop

1.0 Introduction
The Malawi Social Action Fund phase II will close on November 30, 2003 and is currently preparing to
implement MASAF III. Its main objective is to enhance and sustain the provision and use of resource
endowments by beneficiary communities, which will contribute to poverty reduction. It aims to:
a)       address the need for socio-economic infrastructure development in rural and urban areas,
b)       support safety net programs through creation of temporary employment for the very poor and
         financing initiatives to assist the most vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children,
         persons with disabilities, the aged and those affected by AIDS, and
c)       enhance in-country capacity to identify, prioritize and implement projects by training of
         stakeholders, at national, regional, district and community level.

One of the preparatory activities to be undertaken as MASAF II transits into MASAF III is to conduct a
workshop with Local Authorities, sector ministries, donors and Non Governmental Organizations to
deliberate on the experiences and lessons of the past 5 years of its implementation.

2.0 Objective of the Workshop
The overall objective of this workshop is to prepare an Intensive and Learning Implementation
Completion Report (ILI). The workshop aims are:
1) draw on lessons from MASAF II implementation as seen through the eyes of the beneficiaries, and
2) provide closure for MASAF II as we move into MASAF III, whose design features are quite different
from its predecessor.

2.1 Specific Objectives
At the workshop participants will;
2.1.1    discuss the findings from I) the Beneficiary Assessment currently underway, II) a Gender Study
         which was undertaken during MASAF II implementation III) the recent DFID evaluation of the
         Public Works Program IV) the Development Communication Strategy study and V) any other
         relevant documents.
2.1.2    draw out the lessons learnt from the preceding two phases of MASAF
2.1.3    analyze the implications of the findings and the lessons with regard to the MASAF III program
2.1.4    develop recommendations as a way forward

3.0 Participants to the Workshop

Participants will include District Assembly staff, sector ministry representatives, Non-Governmental
Organizations, donor representatives, University of Malawi, World Bank staff, MASAF and consultants.
It is expected that about 80 participants will attend.

4.0 Expected Outcome
By the end of the workshop the Government will have agreed on the timetable with the World Bank for
the preparation of the Intensive Learning and Implementation Completion Report, including dates by
which any information not available during the Workshop would be provided to the Bank.

5.0 Role of the Consultant
The consultant will; facilitate and manage the workshop for eight man days, work in close collaboration
with the MASAF Management Unit (MU), and is expected to deliver the following output:

·        Review documents which will be discussed at the workshop
·        Develop a timetable for the seminar in liaison with MASAF management unit



                                                      - 42 -

·        Help the presenters make clear and concise presentations in collaboration with MASAF
         Development Communication Unit
·        Select the venue of the workshop and make all the necessary arrangements for the smooth flow
of the workshop
·        Outline materials and equipment required at the workshop
·        Facilitate discussions and guide presentations
·        Document all the critical issues raised
·        Guide further enquiry of the issues to list lessons learnt and best practices to be carried forward
to MASAF III
·        Compile and submit the draft and final workshop report

6.0 Qualifications of the Consultant:
The prospective consultant should have proven record and experience in facilitating workshop of this
standard where study findings and experiences will be discussed, the lessons learnt during the past five
years will be reviewed, and analyses of their implications will be done to develop recommendations as a
way forward. The consultant should also have a sound understanding of Malawi Social Action Fund, the
Millennium Development Goals (MDG), Decentralization and the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy.

7.0 Administrative Arrangements:

7.1 Obligations of the Client (MASAF)
·        MASAF will provide accommodation, food for the facilitator(s) to ensure the close contact of the
facilitator(s), the MASAF (MU), World Bank team and the participants.
·        MASAF will provide stationery and make available the relevant MASAF documents that may be
required by the consultant
·        MASAF will provide a coordinator as a contact between the client and the consultant
·        MASAF will ensure timely review of the workshop reports for approval with the scheduled time
lines indicated under section 5 above.

7.2 Obligations of the Consultant
7.2.1    The consultant will provide experts all of whom shall be adequately qualified and experienced in
the assignment and timely deliver the expected outputs.
7.2.2    Notwithstanding the qualification written above, the consultant shall remain fully responsible to
deliver the described assignment out put.




                                                      - 43 -

                                                                                  Annex 3

                                List of Documents Reviewed

1.  MASAF Beneficiary Assessment III ­ Draft final Report - by the PAG
2.  MASAF III/CEDP Operational Manual
3.  MASAF Annual Report 2001
4.  Listenership, Readership, Viewership Survey of MASAF ­ by Educ Consult
5.  Technical Appraisal of Public Works Programmes ­ by RN Geddes of Scott Wilson
6.  MASAF ­ SSP CBOs/NGOs ­ Regional workshop Report ­ by Chimwemwe Chikusa
7.  MASAF III Community Empowerment and Accountability




                                            - 44 -

                                                                                                Annex 4

            PRESENTATIONS BY MASAF, CONSULTANTS AND FUNDING AGENCY (GTZ)

A. MASAF PRESENTATION

a) FACT SHEET


1.       ACHIEVEMENTS

ü        The project has made considerable progress on its key objectives of providing grants to
communities and building capacities at the local level.
ü        Empowered communities with capacities to articulate their needs, manage and account for
resources.
ü        Demonstrable impact of the safety net operations on beneficiaries' coping mechanisms.
ü        Communities have successfully demonstrated their ability to effectively manage sub-project
implementation-procurement, financial management and construction monitoring.
ü        MASAF has become a strong unifying force, at the community level irrespective of different
political persuasions now prevalent in Malawi.
ü        MASAF has assisted in creating and strengthening a cadre of enlightened people with the ability
to articulate and represent their communities in accessing public or external development assistance.

PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS (PER PAD TARGETS)
§        TARGET§          ACHIEVEMENTS
2,493 sub-projects to be funded3,027 sub-projects funded
2,493 sub-projects completed 2,780 sub-projects completed to date
All funds committed and disbursed (US$66.0 million)US$63.0 million (95.5%) disbursed
3.0 million beneficiaries reached3.2 million beneficiaries reached

ACHIEVEMENTS BY COMPONENT
§        Community Sub-Projects§           Public Works
1,056 ClassroomsMK201.0 million wage income transfer
33,401 School desks116,410 (62,107 men 54,283 women) individuals afforded temporary
employment)
2,964 VIP Latrines3,050 ha of bare land covered under afforestation projects
531 Staff Houses5624 km of earth road rehabilitated/constructed
3,616 Water points
125 Bridges
13 Health Units
§        Estimated total direct beneficiaries (2.4 million)

Sponsored Sub-Projects
43 Early childhood Development Centres constructed
97 Health and Food Security Projects implemented
152 IGA Projects supported
86 Vocational Skills Training Projects undertaken
4 Home Based Care training projects undertaken

§        Total beneficiaries under SSP 252, 686.




                                                    - 45 -

CHALLENGES

§     Inadequate sectoral support and the impact of multiple donor approaches and requirements, e.g
      -         Stringent sectoral norms
      -         Confusion at community level resulting from uncoordinated donor activities.
§     Community capacity limitations e.g. difficulties in some instances to provide community
      contribution due to natural resource constraints.
§     Collegial management system for the PWP was weak.
§     Unequal distribution of NGOs in the country or over concentration.
§     Inadequate capacities in the NGO sector (financial, human, technical)

b) IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES & CHALLENGES OF SPONSORED
  SUBPROJECTS: A REPORT OF CBO/ NGOs EXPERIENCE SHARING
  WORKSHOPS

PRESENTATION FOCUS
§     Objectives of SSP
§     Objectives of the CBO/NGO Workshop
§     Implementation Experiences & Challenges
§     Way forward (highlights)


OBJECTIVES OF SSP

§     Provide Financial Grants and technical resources for Programmes targeted at marginalized
      groups
§     Support networking activities among NGOs/CBOs and other key actors working with vulnerable
      groups to exchange information for Policy Advocacy & Coordination of Programmes.

CBO WORKSHOP OBJECTIVES

§     Assess understanding of MASAF Procedures and Guidelines and Audit level of application.
§     Share stakeholder Implementation Experiences and challenges
§     Develop a way forward based on challenges.

PARTICIPANTS TO THE WORKSHOP

§     Community Based Organisations (CBOs)
§     Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs)
§     Social Welfare Officers
§     Other Service Providers

PARTICIPANTS TO THE WORKSHOP

§     In total, 269 CBOs and NGOs Participated
§     573 Members benefited from the Training.


ASSESSING UNDERSTANDING OF MASAF PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES
§     Out of the 269 CBOs/NGOs 90% of these are aware of the MASAF Procedures and Guidelines
    - Introduced through pre-launch Training.
    - Were able to state them in this workshop.

APPLICATION OF THE PROCEDURES & GUIDELINES AND CHALLENGES
    - Formation of Groups
    - Project Identification and Application
    - Appraisals



                                                - 46 -

   -   Implementation
   -   Reporting
   -   Project Sustainability
   -   Collaboration with Partners

GROUP FROMATION

§      10% of the sponsoring Agencies were initiated by few individuals
§      5% of individual who initiated the CBOs/NGOs assumed Coordinatory Roles.
§      2% of Social Welfare Officers & other field staff were forming own CBOs
§      CBO/NGO/PSC Membership not gender balanced ­ 65% representation of Women

PROJECT IDENTIFICATION & APPLICATION PROCECESSES

   -   80% CBOs were referred to MASAF by the Social Welfare Office
   -   15% Influenced by other Community Facilitators/ Groups and press (Radio)
   -   5% Self Facilitated through Coordinators

PROJECT INDENTIFICATION & APPLICATION PROCESSES

§      Non involvement of Project Beneficiaries was noted in 7% of the CBOs/ NGOs

COVERAGE/TARGETING

§      99% of Sponsoring Agencies applied on behalf of Vulnerable persons and 1% on own behalf
§      90% of CBOs Targeting too many groups
§      40% of CBOs Operate in areas too large to manage
§      0.5% cover too small an area
§      Applied for too many activities, which are not complementary and are beyond carrier capacities.

APPRAISALS

§      5% of projects not fully appraised at desk and field level (Leading to Implementation Problems)
§      4% had no clear project plans on how to handle and Administer Benefits

IMPLEMENTATION

§      99% of the CBOs/NGOs Publicly launched their projects
§      97% of CBOs/NGOs followed MASAF Community Procurement Procedures.
§       5% of the CBOs complained of buying from far (Lilongwe, Blantyre & Mzuzu)
§      Social welfare staffs are not actively supervising projects due to lack of Transport.
§      3% of CBOs did not formalize land and property ownership

REPORTING

§      100% of CBOs/NGOs understood the need for Reporting
§      30% had difficulties in preparing first justification Reports
§      40% CBOs/ NGOs justifying at 100% expenditure.

PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY

§      Sustainability of project not well planned for in 10% of the CBOs/NGOs.
§      10% of CBOs' earlier initiatives died out upon receipt of MASAF Support.
§      Low understanding of principle of Sustainbility ­ Dependency Syndrome

COLLABORATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS

§      Weak relationship among some stakeholders (Social Welfare not involving Land `O' Lakes and
Vice Versa)



                                                     - 47 -

§       Some Implementing Partners Influencing CBOs to modify structures without prior consultation
with MASAF.

WAY FORWARD

§       CBOs/NGOs were urged to;
-       Formalise and Legalise Land Issues to avoid personalization of the property.
-       Development project plans to assist in project management and Administration of benefits

§       In order to avoid Dominance by coordinators, SAs were advised to draw constitutions to
guideline their operations


c) PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AT VARIOUS LEVELS

§       Community ­ PMCs, PSCs, CBOs
§       NGO
§       Local Assembly.

COMMUNITIES

§       Some PMCs do not Report to Communities as required ­ tended to be accountable to the Zone
Office.
§       Poor Record Keeping ­ in some communities leading to delays in justification
§       Delay last tranche Justification-no motivation as project would have been completed;
participation wanes when projects take long.
§       Delays in preparing justification Reports in some Projects
§       Manipulation of Quotations ­ Collusion with suppliers to undersupply etc
§       Community Contribution

NGO

§       The level of accountability for some NGOs is less than adequate
§       Weak links with community withdraw in some case

EXPERIENCE

§       LAs as Clearing Houses- capacities tend to be over extended as DEC members also involved in
other Programmes
§       Some functions Performed by people that are not qualified for the job
§       Conflict of Interest in Procurement in some Districts.
§       LA Deliberations are sometimes dominated and Manipulated by influential Non-Elected members
(MPS/Ministers) during LA Deliberations.

IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS

§       Assess Capacity issues focusing on the functions that the LA (DEC) has to Perform and Address
gaps if any
§       Need for Enforcement of Procurement Procedures and Principles at all levels and close
Monitoring in order to Identify Lapses.
§       Need for continued interaction with Communities throughout the Project cycle processes and
beyond
§       NGO/CBOs working with Communities to forge strong ties with Communities as Implementation
and sustenance of Project benefits critically dependent on this.

d)      COMMUNITY EXCHANGE PROGRAMME

FEEDBACK FROM THE 29TH 30 OCTOBER, 2003



                                                   - 48 -

WORKSHOP IN MANGOCHI

PRESENTATION OUTLINE

Ø       Objective of the C to C Background
Ø       Process and Content
Ø       Key Emerging Issues
Ø       Key Learning Points for Participants
Ø       Way Forward

OBJECTIVE OF THE WORKSHOP

Ø       To share Experiences
Ø       Learn Lessons from the experiences
Ø       Develop action plans for follow up action

BACKGROUND

Ø       Within the kiss and IK framework under tap component institutionalization in MASAF.
Ø       As one of the Strategies for enhancing capacities in the Implementation of Sub-Projects, akin to
inter Committee Workshops or Meetings
Ø       The MASAF III Launch was an Opportunity for the Communities to Exchange Experience

PROCESS

§       Fourty-one (41) Participants, one and a half days, ZMs and MU staff Present
§       Facilitators-MU and WB staff present
§       Facilitators-MU and WB Staff Methodology:
·       Role plays
·       Group discussions, plenary

CONTENT

Ø       Introduction & expectations
Ø       Facilitating Knowledge exchange
§       Role play on Knowledge Seekers and
§       Knowledge Possessors at Community level.
Ø       Real Project Experiences and Lessons
Ø       Action Planning
Ø       Workshop Evaluation

KEY ISSUES FOR MASAF ATTENTION


Ø       In general participants felt this was good experience for them.
Ø       They were able to Learn from the experience of others.
Ø       However, the following issues were raised by participants that required serious attention
    -   Sub-Project "Savings" should be left with communities
    -   Delayed and Low PWP wages
    -   RCWP Road Projects without structures Bridges or Culverts should be followed up.
    -   About MASAF III- 60% of Participants "Felt" Despondent and Betrayed by the fact that:
·       LAs will have oversight responsibility; and
·       Funding and Intra District resource allocation will be done by LAs
    -   Political Influence in the Distribution of the Resource within the District
    -   Less honest and not committed DA Officials.
    -   What is wrong with the zones that you are removing them"




                                                     - 49 -

KEY AREAS OF LEARNING FOR PARTICIPANTS


Ø     How to Manage a School Construction Project
Ø     How to deal with Implementation Problems that could lead to project failure
Ø     How to apply for Financial Support for a School Project.
Ø     Need for Commitment by the Communities and chiefs before asking for Financial Support for
Development Activities
Ø     Caring for Orphans through Dairy Cattle Farming
Ø     Disabled Persons being self reliant through productive skills
Ø     The need for commitment in caring for orphans
Ø     How to start Projects that would be easily sustained even after MASAF Support is no more
   § Such as keeping Dairy Cattle
Ø     How to supervise a Project to reach Completion Timely
Ø     Disabled Persons helping Able-Bodied Persons.
Ø     No Stigmatisation
   § Mixing Freely
   § Able bodied-Persons at Ease
Ø     Need for Cooperation in Flood Control Project
Ø     Participants given the freedom to give positive and Negative feedback to MASAF

WAY FORWARD

·     Do more community Exchanges internally, international, regional, inter-SAF
·     Develop a Framework for Institutionalizing C2C in MASAF III
Ø     Develop Capacity for Implementation of Community Exchange Programmes
·     Training of Staff
Ø     Follow up on:
§     Community Action Plans
§     Concerns raised by participants

B. PRESENTATION OF MASAF II BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT FINDINGS

INTRODUCTION:

COVERAGE:

5% OF TOTAL NUMBER OF FUNDED SUB-PROJECTS -STATISTCALLY SIGNIFICANT PLUS 19
NON FUNDED PROJECTS
11 DISTRICTS IN     ALL   THE THREE REGIONS ALL CATEGORIES OF STAKEHOLDERS, I.E.,
BENEFITING COMMUNITIES, THEIR LEADERS,
ESPECIALLY     TAs,    DAS ­DCs, DISTRICT PLANNERS, SECTOR GOVERNMENT                     STAFF AT
DISTRICT LEVELS, MASAF MU & ZONES,
SAs. CBOs, & NGOs, WORKERS IN PWP, VULNERABLE BENEFICIARIES IN SSP NON PROJECT
BENEFICIARIES.

ASSESSMENT METHODS USED:

A COMBINATION OF QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE


QUANTITATIVE: WRITTEN RECORDS, INTERVIEW SCHEDULES/QUESTIONNAIRE & PRAs
QUANTITATIVE USED TO GENERATE NUMBERS, FIGURES, PERCENTAGES.

QUALITATIVE: FGDS, SSIs, PRAs ­ESPECIALLY TREND ANALYSIS (now and before matrices) &
FLOW CHARTS. THESE WERE USED TO GET AT PEOPLE'S VIEWS, PERCEPTIONS, TO EXPLAIN
THE NUMBERS AND FIGURES WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS



                                                - 50 -

OBESERVATIONS: ESPECIALLY OF WATER AND HYGIENE


FINDINGS

NOTE: THE DESIGN PRINCIPLES ARE DISCUSSED TOGETHER WITH THE SECTOR
INTERVENTIONS EDUCATION

1. MASAF OUTPUTS

4,273 CLASSROOM BLOCKS
1,481 STAFF HOUSES
96,733 SCHOOL DESKS/FURNITURE

2. IMPACT

·      INCREASED ENROLMENTS
·      IMPROVED TEACHER AND PUPIL MORALE
·      IMPROVED LEARNING ENVIROMENT
·      INCREASED PUPIL RETENTION RATES
·      REDUCED DISTANCE TO SCHOOL
·      INCREASED TEACHER/PUPIL & CLASSROOM/PUPIL RATIOS

3. CHALLENGES AND LESSONS LEARNT

i)     INCREASED ENROLMENTS ONLY WHEN CLASSROOMS ARE BUILT ­SENSITIZATION
ii)    IMPROVED MORAL ­YES BUT NOT WHEN SOME STRUCTURES NOT ATTENDED TO
iii)   INCREASED TEACHER/PUPIL RATIO UNDERMINES QUALITY
iv)    MAINTENANCE: TRAINED PMC REPLACED BY SCHOOL COMMITTEE

4. OVERALL CONTRIBUTION TO POVERTY REDUCTION

HEALTH WATER AND SANITATION

1.     MASAF OUTPUTS
       5,238 BOREHOLES
       676 PIPED WATER POINTS
       6,607 VENTILATED IMPROVED PIT LATRINES

2.     IMPACTS
·      INCREASED ACCESS TO POTABLE WATER
·      REDUCTION OF WATER BORNE DISEASES
·      INCREASED PREVANCE AND PRACTICE OF GOOD HYGIENE HABITS
·      REDUCTION OF DISTANCE TO HEALTH CENTRES

3.     CHALLENGES AND LESSONS LEARNT
·      UNUTILISED 45.5 PER CENT OF MASAF FUNDED AND COMPLETED HEALTH
SUB-PROJECTS
·      POOR QUALITY WORKMANSHIP WITH REGARDS TO SINKING TOILETS
·      DISTANCE BETWEEN WATER SOURCE AND VIPs
·      SUSTAINABILITY ­WATER BILLS BUT....

4. CONTRIBUTION TO POVERTY REDUCTION ILL-HEALTH A MAJOR MANIFESTATION OF




                                       - 51 -

   POVERY

ROADS AND BRIDGES (PWP & CSP)

1. MASAF OUTPUTS

A TOTAL OF 8,807 KILOMETRES OF ROAD AND 880 BRIDGES

2. IMPACTS

·      INCREASED ACCESS TO, AND UTILIZATION OF, SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SERVICES
       (HEALTH, EDUCATION, MARKETS, FARM INPUTS, ETC.)
·      REDUCTION OF DISTANCE TO SERVICES


3. CHALLENGES AND LESSONS LEARNT

(DISCUSSED UNDER PWP BELOW)

OTHER IMPORTANT BENEFITS OF CSP SUB-PROJECTS

a)     POVERTY REDUCTION THROUGH REDUCED DISTANCE, PROVISION OF HEALTH AND
       EDUCATION SERVICES
b)     SOCIAL CAPITAL BUILT THROUGH SKILLS TRAINING, AUTONOMOUS MANAGEMENT
       AND DIRECT FINANCING.
c)     STRONG SENSE OF OWNERS AND HENCE HIGH CHANCES OF SUSTAINABILITY. THE
       LATTER HOWEVER, DEPEND ON OTHER THINGS BESIDES SENSE OF OWNERSHIP
       (SKILLS, FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND MENTAL ATTITUDES.

THE PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMME

INTERVENTIONS INCLUDE ROADS, BRIDGES AND AFFORESTATION

BENEFITS INCLUDE:

·      WAGES THOUGH SMALL WHICH WORKERS RECEIVE AND USE TO MEET ESSENTIAL
NEEDS
·      REDUCTION OF DISTANCE TO SERVICES WHICH EASES LIFE
·      SKILLS LEARNT FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE, SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION
·      WOOD AND TIMBER AND INCOMES FROM AFFORESTATION PROJECTS

PROBLEMS, CHALLENGE & LESSONS LEARNT
·      LOW WAGES
·      SELECTION OF PWP WORKERS
·      LATE AND OFTEN REDUCED PAYMENTS
·      WORKING RELATIONSHIPS WITH DAs

SPONSORED SUB PROJECTS

TYPES OF SUB-PROJECTS

CATEGORIES OF BENEFICIARIES

IMPACTS AND BENEFITS




                                       - 52 -

PROBLEMS, CHALLENGES AND LESSONS LEARNT

TOWARDS DECENTRALISATION

LESSONS LEARNT FROM CSP

LESSONS LEARNT FROM PWP

WAY FORWARD.

C. DFID EVALUATION OF THE MASAF PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMME

Key Issues

·       Design limitations of Public Works
·       Roads Standards
·       District Capacity
·       Monitoring

Design Limitations of PWP (Contribution to Poverty Reduction)

·       Short term employment
·       Seasonal inflexibility
        -        Interfere with harvest
        -        Benefits not available in hungry period.
·       Low wage rate
        -        Primary targeting mechanism
        -        Jobs still oversubscribed
        -        Wage inadequate to meet even basic consumption needs?
        -        Study of the impact of higher wages (alternative targeting methods?)
·       Unlikely to contribute to poverty reduction.

Road Standards

·       Constrained by:
        -        Minimum labour content
        -        Weak soils (rapid deterioration of earth roads)
        -        Local capacity.
·       Recommendations:
        -        Define minimum standards for district roads
        -        Training of supervisors
        -        Coordination of road funds by Las/NRA.
Ø       Reduced maintenance concerns
Ø       Better economic returns.

District Capacity

·       Sub-project selection:
        -        District planning process
        -        Genuine involvement of communities?
·       Late payment of wages
·       New rules for MASAF funding to Las
        -        Hinder the flow of funds to the beneficiaries?
        -        Will MASAF relax the rules in the short term? or ...



                                                    - 53 -

       -        Provide additional support to the Las? (by-pass or build local capacity).

Monitoring

·      Reliance on Beneficiary Assessments and internal progress reports (technical)
       -        Sufficiently responsive management tools?
       -        Need to include social and economic indicators in routine monitoring.
·      Baseline study as basis for future monitoring?
·      Use the new MIS?
·      DFID contribute to design of M&E system
       -        CARE pilot activities.

Summary

·      Design limitations of Public Works
·      Roads Standards
·      District Capacity
·      Monitoring

D. THE LISTENERSHIP, READERSHIP, VIEWERSHIP SURVEY OF MASAF's
   DEVELOPMENT COMMUNICATION PRODUCTS


OVERVIEW

Ø      Objective of the Survey
Ø      Methodology of the Survey
Ø      Key findings
Ø      Way forward

OBJECTIVE OF THE SURVEY

Ø      Assess the impact, coverage, reach, use, content and language of MASAF communication
       products/materials in print, face-to face and electronic media

METHODOLOGY

Quantitative and Qualitative

Ø      Policy level
Ø      Operational level

Ø      Policy level

-      Literature review
-      Policy review
-      Institutional review

Ø      Operational level

-      Key Informant Interviews
-      Focus Group Discussions
-      Individual questionnaire (1,577 in 15 districts)




                                                   - 54 -

STUDY SITES

REGION                           DISTRICTS                     TOTAL
NORTH                            Rumphi, Mzimba                2
CENTRE                           Salima, Lilongwe, Dedza,      6
                                 Ntcheu, Kasungu, Mchinji
SOUTH                            Chikwawa, Phalombe, Thyolo,   7
                                 Blantyre, Mwanza, Machinga,
                                 Zomba
TOTAL                                                          15

KEY FINDINGS

1.      Awareness and knowledge levels of MASAF
2.      Perceptions on MASAF methodology
3.      Views on communication channels
4.      Impact of MASAF DC activities (on communities and collaborators)

1.      Awareness and knowledge levels of MASAF

-       Heard of MASAF                  95%
-       Plan International              15.9%
-       CADECOM                         12.5%
-       The rest                        <10%

...Awareness and knowledge levels of MASAF components

MASAF COMPONENT                                 %
Community sub projects                          82.4%
Public Works Programmes                         81.9%
Sponsored sub projects                          18%
Capacity enhancement studies                    2%


...Awareness and knowledge levels of MASAF principles and procedures

MASAF principles and procedures                 %
Community participation                         50%
Funding scope                                   43%
Formation of PMCs                               35%
Accessing funding                               25%


2.      Perceptions on MASAF's practices and methodology

MASAF principles and procedures                 %
Respond to people's development needs           62%
Involve target communities at all stages        39%
Impose projects on target communities           10%




                                                - 55 -

3.    DC channels

-     Ever listened to MASAF radio programmes            79%
-     Ever attended development meetings                 40%
-     Ever listened to MASAF TV programmes               22%
-     Ever exposed to MASAF literature                   10%

   1. Radio

   -  More accessible to men than women (93% vs 79%)
   -  More "spontaneous" than "deliberate listeners" (84% vs 16%)
   -  Reservations with "timing" and "lessons learned"

   2. Meetings

   -  Village and development meeting most effective
   -  PMCs seldom give feedback to communities
   -  Zone staff rarely meet communities
   -  Politics of identify among leaders

   3. TV

   -  Accessible in relatively urban areas
   -  Viewership of MASAF TV programmes = 22%
   -  Reservations on targeting and content
   -  Not all that effective in educating viewers

   4. Print

-     Literature inaccessible ­ stockpiled at the district
-     Late delivery
-     Not durable
-     High illiteracy levels

4.    Impact

   Impact of MASAF DC activities on Development Partners

National Level


-     Interaction most bilateral at national level
-     Interaction mostly with government ministries
-     Limited number of fora exist
-     Limited and adhoc interaction

   Impact of MASAF DC activities on Development Partners

   District Level

-     Major forum is the DA
-     Significant partnerships blossoming under SSP
-     Coordination problems (3)
-     Contractual interaction with media




                                                  - 56 -

    Impact of MASAF DC activities on the community

-       Lack of knowledge of MASAF principles and procedures
-       Collective action problems
-       Lack of quality leadership
-       Hunger crisis

RECOMMENDATIONS

Electronic channel

Ø       Develop a culture of deliberate listeners by making the programmes more interesting
Ø       Articulate the expected roles of facilitators
Ø       Consider phone in programs that will allow MASAF officials to clarify procedures
Ø       Consider cinema mobile unit in areas where TVM is not reachable

... Recommendations

Face to face channel

Ø       Intensify technical support to the PMCs to make them more responsive to communities
Ø       Empower communities to sanction unproductive
Ø       Need more involvement of MASAF officials in DEC meetings
Ø       Use District Information Officers more

    ...Recommendations

Print channel


Ø       Consider the high literacy levels
Ø       Intensify regular and timely distribution of literature
Ø       Take advantage of adult functional literacy where they exist
Ø       Consider billboards

E. PRESENTATION BY A FUNDING AGENCY ­ GTZ

German Government Contribution

Since October 2002 and following the Government negotiations, the contribution of the German
Government to Malawi falls in Three Core Sectors:

1.      Health
2.      Basic Education
3.      Democratic Decentralization
    (There is also support to cross-cutting issues like HIV/AIDS; Gender and Non-Violent conflict
    Transformation)

In the sector: Democratic Decentralization, there are three key players:

1.      The German Development Cooperation Service (DED), for Personnel Cooperation (PC)
2.      KfW for Financial Cooperation (FC)
3.      GTZ for Technical Cooperation (TC)

The GTZ-Technical Contribution to Democratic Decentralization is channeled through the



                                                    - 57 -

Malawi-German Programme for Democracy and Decentralization (MGPDD) in partnership with the
Department of Local Government (DLG).

Currently, this programme has focus in four key areas:

1.      Support political capacity building (Development) of the local elected leadership
2.      Support to strengthening of the local revenue base of the District Assemblies & the
        Development of capacity for the Technical Staff
3.      Support to development of planning capacity for the Technical Staff
4.      Support to the Management of the Decentralization process in Malawi.

In terms of funding to the districts;

GTZ/KfW in principle holds the view in support of the DDF as a funding mechanism to the Districts.
However, it now would want clarification of modalities such as:

1.      Harmonization of parallel funding mechanisms
2.      Harmonization of planning and implementation structures (ADCs and VDCs) vis a vis structures
of MASAF, etc




                                                  - 58 -

                                                                                                  Annex 5

                                    GROUP DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

QUESTIONS FOR DAY 1

PWP

1.       What should be the ideal employment period?
2.       How can benefits available during the hungry period?
3.       How can targeting be improved with higher wages?
4.       Is minimum wage government or market rate?
5.       How can standards be developed and implemented in the districts/communities?

SSP

1.       How can community empowerment/ownership be fostered?
2.       How can SSP be better targeted for maximum impact?
3.       How can coordination other players such NGOs be improved?

CSP

1.       Does MASAF III have enough strategies to assist communities cope with sectoral inadequacies?
2.        If PMCs have successfully managed school construction, why can't they manage road
construction under PWP?

GENERAL QUESTIONS

1.       MASAF MU ­ Does have ability in research and monitoring, evaluation and reporting?
2.       Apart from training, what other capacity building strategies should MASAF III adopt or include for
         communities, district structures, NGOs etc?
3.       With the reduction in Zonal offices, what are the implications for technical capacity
backstopping?
4.       What challenges or problems have been experienced with the implementation of MASAF
projects?
5.       What lessons can we draw from the design and implementation of MASAF Projects?
6.       What are the implications of the lessons learnt from MASAF II for the implementation of MASAF
III?
7.        Develop recommendations for the way forward.QUESTIONS FOR DAY 2

GROUP DISCUSSIONS: EMERGING ISSUES, LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1.       From your group presentation and plenary discussions as well as presentations on various
         studies, consider or find to be the key emerging issues, lessons and recommendations from
         MASAF II for MASAF III.
2.       What would you propose to be the way forward in the implementation of the MASAF III in view of
         these lessons and recommendation?

    MASAF Development Communication

1.       How can the relationship between PMCs and communities be improved?
2.       What are people's views on producing district specific information?
3.       How best can stakeholders collaborate at the district level ­ to minimize competition and politics
of identity



                                                   - 59 -

                                                                                                  Annex 6
                                      PRESENTATIONS BY GROUPS

DAY 1: CSP GROUP PRESENTATIONS

1.0     INTRODUCTION

1.      MASAF III strategies to assist communities to cope with sectoral inadequacies
2.      PMCs managing road construction under PWP.
3.      General questions

2.0     STRATEGIES

·       Communication gap between district staff and central government
-       Communities will be guided by Community Service Packages and sectoral benchmarks during
extended PRA process.

·       Limited and inefficient utilization of Resources
-       Reports to cover use of resources

·       Inadequate commitment of the civil service
-       Essential resources to be provided at district level i.e. vehicles
-       Inbuilt processes of community monitoring and mutual accountabilities geared towards change of
attitudes

·       Demonstrated incompetencies from some government staff
-       Capacity Building through the Transparency and Accountability Pro. (TAP)
-       Enforcement of standards to ensure quality control i.e. technology choice, sanitation and
        environmental issues, concrete technology, water quality

·       Slow devolution process

-       12 year MASAF III plan to strengthen and speed up the devolution process

3.0     PMCs MANAGING PWP ROAD PROJECT

PMCs can manage PWP road projects

·       Under the following conditions

-       Multiple PMCs ­ main PMC and sectional committees
                         - main PMC managing the bank account
-       LA staff to accompany PMC during paying parades

·       Limitations
-       Main PMC cannot manage long road section due to mobility challenges
-       Single PMC cannot command authority over long road sections
-       PMCs cannot handle the processes in wage administration

4.0     GENERAL QUESTIONS

4.1     There is inadequate capacity in research, monitoring and evaluation. i.e. MIS is not yet in place,
        no provision of research within the MASAF III programme
4.2     Training alternative to communities, Las and NGO



                                                   - 60 -

    § MASAF should emphasise community exchange programme
    § MASAF to fill all material resource gaps
    § MASAF should provide `quality control' mechanisms
    § Emphasis on wider Knowledge and Information Sharing Systems(KISS)
4.3     Implications of technical capacity backstopping:
    § LAs would be empowered through assumptions of more responsibilities
    § Inadequate support to the LAs by the zone staff
    § Compromised quality of work produced by the LA's
    § Change of roles of Zone Managers from supervisory to advisory
    § LA staff overloaded with responsibilities that may lead to little attention to PMCs


DAY 2: CSP GROUP PRESENTATION

EMERGING ISSUES

1.      Capacity of Local Assemblies
a)      Varying capacity levels in district hence capacity audit;
b)      Need for orientation in MASAF procedures to Local Authority staff, i.e. Accounting procedures;
c)      DPD to manage and coordinate MASAF funded activities;

2.      Management of transition
a)      To maintain the existing Zone Offices to facilitate smooth and effective transition;

3.      PMCs managing road projects
        PMCs cannot manage PWP roads because of the logistics involved and the design principles;

GENERAL QUESTION

4.      Minimization of competition and politics of identity among stakeholders at district level
a)      The exclusion of MPs and Chiefs in the Assemblies;
b)      There should be information sharing on intra-district resource allocation prior to processing of
projects;
c)      The Assembly to approve a plan before appraisals.

DAY 1: PWP GROUP PRESENTATION

1.0 MINIMUM WAGE RATE

·       Is it government or market rate?
·       Minimum of government rate
Ø       Consultative meeting in Salima
Ø       Not to attract much able people in other employment sectors to join MASAF funded Projects
·       Group agreed to maintain the present wage rate meanwhile
·       Way forward
        Group propose adopting safety net plus on the following conditions:

§       Impact of safety net plus pilot study results
§       Cost of implementing the safety net plus
§       Capacity at DA to implement SNP
§       Criteria for setting up the wage rate

IDEAL EMPLOMENT PERIOD

·       Depends on point above especially results of safety net plus study results



                                                    - 61 -

·        Employment based on sub-project life span i.e. PWP sub-projects is 12 months as long term and
         less than 12 months as short term beneficiary benefits

AVAILABILITY OF BENEFITS DURING HUNGER PERIOD

·        Institutionalization of safety net-plus wages and savings for beneficiaries ­ arranged and paid out
in time of need
     -   Implementation of sub projects that are feasible during the hunger period. Temporary
         employment creation for the very poor
     -   Raising awareness of PWP Sub Project diversification.

BENEFICIARIES TARGETING

·        Higher wages can not improve beneficiary targeting
·        Achieved by extended PRAs and Intensive sensitization

DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STANDARDS

·        For road standards, manual being compiled
·        Involvement of other stakeholders required for input as regards to labour intensive & machinery
         concept i.e. DA, NRA, EU, CARE
·        Interms of dams and other PWP sub projects, relevant sector ministries have to be involved for
realistic specifications.

GENERAL QUESTIONS

·        Yes but inadequate
·        MASAF needs to strengthen M & E capacity
·        Coordination with Economic Planning Development
·        MASAF M & E Unit to be empowered to commission any research by ED when need arise

2.0      CAPACITY BUILDING BY MASAF

·        MASAF to continue creating forums for relevant, experiences, challenges and feed back chaired
         by Local Government/Decentrisation
·        At community level, hands on implementation, development of community sensitization
·        NGOs, CBOs, FBOs orientation, registration with Das
·        At DA level, need for computers, vehicles, human capacity, connectivity of e-mail between DA
and MU

3.0      REDUCTION IN ZONE OFFICES

·        Zone & field offices to back stop DA or support DA technically, financially, PRAs and M & E

4.0      CHALLENGES IN IMPLEMENTING MASAF FUNDED PROJECTS

·        Capacity at DA minimal
·        Political interference
·        Demand of projects higher than capacity
·        Personality issues among stakeholders i.e. DA staff, zones staff etc
·        Projects not community originated but rather politically influenced resulting in low community
participation.

DAY 2: PWP GROUP PRESENTATION



                                                     - 62 -

EMERGING ISSUES, LESSONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

WAGE RATE ISSUES

·      Information on wage rate inadequate i.e. intention by government to revise the present rate
·      MASAF Safety Net and Safety Net plans as currently notable basis for wage rate
·      Results of study to finally determine way forward on wage rate
·      DFID willing to support the research

DELAYED WAGES

·      Timely justification, proper justification and timely funding.
·      Use of available resource/proper planning in wage pay parade.
·      Some Assemblies take MASAF as a separate entity.

COMMUNICATION

·      Enhanced by connectivity of e-mail between MU and DA personnel.
·      Need for role clarification of DC responsibilities as compared to other desk offices ( with over
responsibility)
·      Balancing of responsibilities with responsibility.

IDEAL EMPLOYMENT PERIOD

·      Short term and long term but 12 months definite ideal based on results of Safety Net plus results

RECOMMENDATIONS

·      Assembly seem to be overloaded with responsibility hence need to set up a mechanism
·      Pending meeting of DC's with Minister, clarification of some bureaucratic points as part of
       devolution (thus empowering of DAs in recruiting personnel.

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PMCS AND COMMUNITIES

·      PMCS report to communities on monthly basis
·      Operational guidelines of PMCs and enforcement of punitive measures should be followed
·      No duplication of roles for key members and to be both in PMC and VDC
·      M&E at Assembly level to monitor PMCs
·      PMCs to prove that they have reported to communities in form of report (minutes, letter with
corresponding signatures.

DAY 1: SSP GROUP PRESENTATION

QUESTION ONE

·      Projects should be identified through beneficiaries, needs being identified by communities.
·      Capacity building should be included into the projects.
·      Communities must be part of the process of design.
·      CBO and NGOs, they need a strong/effective project support committee (PSC) to act as a link
       between beneficiaries and the implementing agency.
·      Economic empowerment. e.g. maize mill ­ proceeds should be used for the benefit of the
       beneficiaries for operational purposes and finally for re-investment.
·      Stakeholder roles should be made very clear both in appraisal and implementation.



                                                    - 63 -

·      There should be balance between field and desk appraisal.
·      There should be a checklist to be used for field appraisal.
·      Need for awareness campaign on purpose of SSP.
·      There seems to be agreed procedures but shortfalls in implementation.

QUESTION 2
·      Provide broad guidelines on approaches to vulnerability reduction rather than a `menu' of
       projects, to promote innovative solutions.
·      Community shared targeting.
·      Self-targeting (e.g. people with disabilities).
·      A clear policy guideline on how issues of coverage e.g. area dependent on findings from the
       consultations that have taken place.
·      Need for a system to aid in targeting.
       A CBO targeting should be more focused e.g. targeting a group of vulnerable people rather than
       trying to do a range of activities to capture wider funding opportunities ­ but deliver a poor
       service.
       There is a need for an effective M&E system to inform and refine programming. Community
       scorecards are one tool. SSP financing agreement is another.

QUESTION 3
·      Formation of a consortium to work together e.g. Action Aid in Salima being the chain of the
       NGOs intergoverning the DC chairs.
·      NGO and CBO to register with the DCs (a legal framework).
·      DA need to take stock of CBOs and NGOs operating in a particular area.
·      Need to come up with better planning.
·      Donors understanding and more flexibility of the working of DA staff where a staff may be
       visiting different projects within a particular locality and want to share resources e.g. transport
       between projects.

GENERAL QUESTIONS

QUESTION 1
·      Research is mostly contracted out.
·      Monitoring and reporting ­ shared responsibility.
·      Research to be conducted by a consultant or NGO after stakeholders agree TOR.
·      The Transparency and Accountability programme within MASAF III will coordinate these
       responsibilities. The NACCEA provides a useful forum for stakeholders to monitor accountability
       issues.

QUESTION 2
·      Capacity building of DA, NGOs and communities by consultants includes:
       Materials, equipment (an inventory is important), coordination, planning, exchange visits, and
       study visits.

·      It is important for DA resources to be rationalized and used effectively.
·      To strengthen capacity, streamlining systems e.g. M&E, MIS at District level will reduce
pressure.

QUESTION 3
·      Services of the Regional Zone Office and Field Offices will be demand driven (Justification, 2
       Engineers, PRA Officers) and needs to be reviewed annually.
·      Handbooks will provide reference material.




                                                     - 64 -

QUESTION 4
·       Issues on community contribution ­Perception that bricks are the only important contribution
        (IEC) need clarity; guidelines of community contribution and flexibility on this.
·       Ownership.
·       Coordination failure leading to duplication e.g. borehole drilling close together.
·       Self help projects suffering because of MASAF (Re-directing intervention).
·       Over-supply of infrastructure thus overwhelming the line Ministry capacities need for progress in
line with capacity.
·       More sensitization to DA on SSP.
·       Clear guidelines and an IEC to improve knowledge and understanding can reduce political
interference and protect those approving projects.

DAY 2 ­ SSP GROUP PRESENTATION

KEY EMERGING ISSUES

1.      Inadequate capacity amongst key stakeholders
    ü Identify stakeholders
    ü Assess current capacity
    ü Define their roles in SSP
    ü Propose necessary interventions to address capacity shortfalls

2.      M&E ­ Crosscutting issue
    ü ToRs within IEC component all along the project cycle

3.      Inadequate awareness of SSP in general
    ü Exchange visits
    ü Extensive campaigns

4.      Low perceptions and lack of clarity on ownership
    ü Develop strategies for beneficiary participation and ownership at all levels
    ü Stakeholder roles articulated
    ü Effective project support committee
    ü Involvement of beneficiary committees in all aspects of the project cycle

5.      Inadequate coordination at all levels of the program particularly the Local Authority level
    ü DAs to provide enabling by-laws to enhance coordination
    ü Local Govt. Act should articulate provision for directing the District Planning system as a tool for
    program coordination
    ü Donor coordination by Ministry of Finance and Safety Net by MEP&D

6.      Benefits trickling down to the beneficiaries
    ü Need to institute mechanisms to ensure that benefits trickle down to the beneficiaries.
    ü After project completion, include a 3-month (proposed) observation period for
        management/utilization of accrued benefits.

WAY FORWARD
    ü Implement the recommendations

MASAF Development Communication

    ü Information from VAP level
    ü District specific information isolated from District Databank for defining program and sector
    specific data
    ü Capacity audits for relevant stakeholders



                                                   - 65 -

ü Capacity for data analysis needs to be enhanced
ü Role of MASAF in monitoring project activities. Already built in under the TAP component in
    MASAF III to strengthen assembly structures
ü Update on a continuous basis district performance assessment

Political Influence
ü Training for transformation




                                            - 66 -

Additional Annex 10. Capacity Enhancement


                                               Table 1

                   WORKSHOP/TRAINING INTERNAL (April 2001 - Nov. 2003)


                         No. of             No. of Participants by
   Activity              Participants      Geographical Distribution  How Often         By Whom
                                       National Zonal     District PMC
1  Budgeting and         26           MU (10)   ZMs (16)              2nd to 4th April, Malawi College of
   Budgetary Control                                                  2001 (3 days)     Accountancy

2  Orientation on        3            MU (3)                          23rd April, 2001  WISS
   Website Management                                                 (1 day)

3  Procurement           2            MU (2)                          1st to 7th May,   Treasury
   Workshop                                                           2001

4  Autocard Orientation 3             MU (3)                          23rd-24th May,    LARRY
                                                                      2001              Computers
5  Project Justification 68                     12        DEC (56)    14th to 16th May, MASAF
                                                                      2001;
                                                                      21st to 23rd May,
                                                                      2001;
                                                                      28th to 30th May,
                                                                      2001
                                                                      (9 days)
6  Defensive Driving     2            MU (2)                          11th to 13th June,National Roads
   Course                                                             2001 (3 days)     Safety Council
                                                                                        (NRSC)

7  Price Data Bank on    51           MU (4)    19 ZMs, 28            9th to 16th July, Millenium
   Sub-Project Cost                             TSs                   2001              Consultants
   Estimation

8  Internal Auditing     1            MU (1)                          16th to 17th      Society of
   Course                                                             August, 2001 (2   Accountants in
                                                                      days)             Malawi (SOCAM)

9  Aspects of the        1            MU (1)                          1st September,    Employers
   Employment Act of                                                  2001 (1 day)      Consultative
   Malawi                                                                               Association of
                                                                                        Malawi (ECAM)
10 AIDS in the                       1 MU (1)                         17th December,    ECAM
   Workplace                                                          2001 (1 day)




                                                - 67 -

                   No. of            No. of Participants by Geographical
   Activity        Participants                  Distribution             How Often By Whom
                                 National    Zonal     District   PMC
11 Orientation on             25 MU (6)      ZMs (19)                     8th to 10th     UNICEF
   Human Rights                                                           November,
   Based Approach                                                         2001
   to Programming


12 Orientation of  136                                 Councilors         December,       MASAF
   Councilors in                                       (136)              2001
   PWP activities
13 Development     9             MU (4)                                   February,       University of
   Leadership                    Government                               2002 (14        Zimbabwe/
   Course                        (5)                                      days)           Institute for
                                                                                          Development
                                                                                          Studies
                                                                                          (Sussex)

14 Industrial      2             MU (2)                                   2nd May,        ECAM
   Relations course                                                       2002 (1 day)

15 Mainstreaming    29           MU (10)     ZMs (19)                     3rd to 7th      MASAF/
   HIV/AIDS and                                                           June, 2002 (5   UNICEF
   nutrition issues                                                       days)
   into MASAF
   Activities


16 Justification   5                         ZM (1)                       16th to 17th    MASAF
   Training for                              AA (1)                       May, 2002
   Karonga Zone                              TSs (2)
   Staff                                     OA (1)
17 Justification    24                       ZAAs (24)                    10th to 12th    MIM
   Training for                                                           July, 2002
   ZAAs
18 Justificaiton    13           2 AAs       AAs (11)                     29th July to 1stMIM
   Course                                                                 August, 2002


19 Environment      26           8 Directors ZMs 18                       13th to 17th    Livingstonia
   Mainstreaming                 & Heads                                  August, 2002    Beach
   Workshop

20 Receptionists/Te 1            1                                        25th Nov. to    Multi
   lephone                       Receptionist                             6th Dec. 2002   Country
   Operators
   Course




                                              - 68 -

                  No. of          No. of Participants by Geographical
   Activity       Participants                Distribution             How Often By Whom
                              National    Zonal     District   PMC
21 Stores         1           1 AA                                     11th to 22nd  Central
   Management                                                          November,     Government
                                                                       2002 (12      Stores
                                                                       days)
22 Leadership     1           MU (1)                                   2nd to 11th   Bakili Muluzi
   Development                                                         February,     Institute for
   Workshop                                                            2003 (10      Social and
                                                                       days) +       Economic
                                                                                     Transformati
                                                                                     on


23 Strategic      1           1 (MU)                                   May 2003 to MIM
   Management                                                          November,
   Training (MBA)                                                      2004

24 Justification  3           -                    3 -         -       5th to 6th MayMASAF
   Training for                                                        2003
   Chikwawa and
   Luchenza Zones


25 HIV/AIDS at    116         MU and                                          May-03 Project Hope
   the Work Place             Zones (116)
26 Leadership     5           3 (MU)                                   23rd May,     MASAF
   Challenge                                                           2003
   Course                     2 (Govt)
27 Motor Cycle    3           MU (3)                                   4th ­ Sept.   National
   Riding Course                                                       2003          Roads Safety
                                                                                     Council
                                                                                     (NRSC)


28 Video Training 1                      1                             15th to 29th  Chancellor
                                                                       September,    College
                                                                       2003
   TOTAL          559                 193        174        192




                                           - 69 -

                                             Table 2

                             WORKSHOP/TRAINING INTERNAL
                                  (August 2001 - October 2003)



   Activity              No. of          No. of Participants by Geographical How Often         By Whom
                         Participants                Distribution
                                        National    Zonal      District PMC
1  Budgeting and                     26 MU (10)     ZMs (16)                 2nd to 4th April, Malawi College of
   Budgetary Control                                                         2001 (3 days)     Accountancy
2  Orientation on Website             3 MU (3)                               23rd April, 2001  WISS
   Management                                                                (1 day)

3  Procurement                        2 MU (2)                               1st to 7th May,   Treasury
   Workshop                                                                  2001

4  Autocard Orientation               3 MU (3)                               23rd ­ 24th May,  LARRY
                                                                             2001              Computers

5  Project Justification             68                     12 DEC           14th to 16th May, MASAF
                                                               (56)          2001;
                                                                             21st to 23rd May,
                                                                             2001
                                                                             28th to 30th May,
                                                                             2001
                                                                             (9 days)
6  Defensive Driving                  2 MU (2)                               11th to 13th June,National Roads
   Course                                                                    2001 (3 days)     Safety Council
                                                                                               (NRSC)

7  Price Data Bank on                51 MU (4)      19 ZMs,                  9th to 16th July, Millenium
   Sub-Project Cost                                 28 TSs                   2001              Consultants
   Estimation

8  Internal Auditing                  1 MU (1)                               16th to 17th      Society of
   Course                                                                    August, 2001 (2   Accountants in
                                                                             days)             Malawi (SOCAM)

9  Aspects of the                     1 MU (1)                               1st September,    Employers
   Employment Act of                                                         2001 (1 day)      Consultative
   Malawi                                                                                      Association of
                                                                                               Malawi (ECAM)

10 AIDS in the                        1 MU (1)                               17th December,    ECAM
   Workplace                                                                 2001 (1 day)




                                               - 70 -

   Activity               No. of           No. of Participants by Geographical How Often         By Whom
                          Participants                  Distribution
                                         National      Zonal      District PMC
11 Orientation on Human               25 MU (6)        ZMs (19)                8th to 10th       UNICEF
   Rights Based                                                                November, 2001
   Approach to
   Programming

12 Orientation of                    136                          Counci-      December, 2001 MASAF
   Councillors in PWP                                             llers
   activities (District
   Assemblies)

13 Development                         9 MU (4)                                February, 2002    University of
   Leadership Course                     Government                            (14 days)         Zimbabwe/
                                         (5)                                                     Institute for
                                                                                                 Development
                                                                                                 Studies (Sussex)
14 Industrial Relations                2 MU(2)                                 2nd May, 2002     ECAM
   course                                                                      (1 day)

15 Mainstreaming                      29 MU (10)       ZMs (19)                3rd to 7th June,  MASAF/UNICEF
   HIV/AIDS and                                                                2002 (5 days)
   nutrition issues into
   MASAF Activities

16 Justification Training              5               ZM (1)                  16th to 17th May, MASAF
   for Karonga Zone Staff                              AA (1)                  2002
                                                       TSs (2)
                                                       OA (1)
17 Justification Training             24               ZAAs                    10th to 12th July,MIM
   for ZAAs                                            (24)                    2002

18 Justification Course               13 2 AAs         AAs (11)                29th July to 1st  MIM
                                                                               August, 2002

19 Environment                        26 8 Directors & ZMs 18                  13th to 17th      Livingstonia
   Mainstreaming                         Heads                                 August, 2002      Beach
   Workshop
20 Receptionists/Telepho               1 1                                     25th Nov. to 6th  Multi Country
   ne Operators Course                   Receptionist                          Dec. 2002

21 Stores Management                   1 1 AA                                  11th to 22nd      Central
                                                                               November, 2002    Government
                                                                               (12 days)         Stores




                                                 - 71 -

    Activity                    No. of       No. of Participants by Geographical How Often          By Whom
                                Participants             Distribution
                                             National Zonal    District PMC
22  Sun Accounting System       5            MU (5)                              8th to 24th        Advance Net
    Course (Johannesburg, South                                                  December, 2002     (PTY)
    Africa)                                                                      (17 days)          Limited
23  Financial Management and    1            MU (1)                              2nd to 13th        World Bank
    Disbursement Procedures                                                      January, 2003 (12
    Course for World Bank Aided                                                  days)
    Projects (India)
24  Sun Accounting System       3            MU (3)                              13th to 24th       Advance Net
    Course (Johannesburg, South                                                  January, 2003 (14  (PTY)
    Africa)                                                                      days)              Limited
25  Information Technology      1            MU (1)                              2nd to 15th        CS Holding
    Course (Durban ­ South                                                       February, 2003n
    Africa)                                                                      (14 days)

26  Sun Accounting System       3            MU (3)                              6th to 19th April, Advance Net
    Course (Johannesburg, South                                                  2003 (14 days)     (PTY)
    Africa)                                                                                         Limited
27  Internal Audit and Computer 2            MU (2)                              6th to 26th April, DTI
    Auditing course (Mbabane ­                                                   2003 (21 days)
    Swaziland)
28  Management Development      3            MU (2) 1 AA                         21st April to 17th ESAMI
    Programme for Executive                                                     May, 2003 (28
    Assistants (Mbabane-                                                        days)
    Swaziland)
29  Records Management Course   1            MU (1)                              27th April to 24th ESAMI
    (Arusha ­ Tanzania)                                                          May, 2003 (28
                                                                                 days)
30  Human Resources             1            MU (1) -          -        -        19th May to 13th   ESAMI
    Management course (Arusha,                                                   June 2003 (28
    Tanzania)                                                                    days)

31  Management Development      1            MU (1) -          -        -        26th May to 20th   ESAMI
    Programme for Executive                                                      June 2003 (28
    Assistants (Mombasa, Kenya)                                                  days)

32  Electronic Records          1            MU (1)                              1st to 28th June,  DTI
    Management Course                                                            2003
33  (Mbabane, Swaziland)
    Human Resources             1            MU (1)                              3rd to 30th August,IDCA
    Management and Performance                                                   2003
    Enhancement (Mbabane,
    Swaziland)




                                             - 72 -

    Activity                     No. of        No. of Participants by Geographical How Often         By Whom
                                 Participants              Distribution
                                               National Zonal    District PMC
34  Audit for Internal Auditors              1 MU (1) -          -        -        17th August to 13 ESAMI
    Course (Nairobi, Kenya)                                                        September (28
                                                                                   September)

35  Financial Management Course              1 MU (1)                              24 August to 20   ESAMI
    (Harare, Zimbabwe)                                                             September, 2003
                                                                                   (28 days)

36  Management Development                   2 MU (2)                              24 August to 20   ESAMI
    Course for Executive                                                           September, 2003
    Assistants (Mbabane,                                                           (28 days)
    Swaziland)
37  Financial Management Course              1 MU (1)                              15th September,   Thames
    (ACCA)                                                                         2003 to May       Valley
                                                                                   2004              University
                                                                                                     (UK)
38  Fiduciary Management in                  5 MU (3)                              28th September to World Bank
    Community Driven                           Govt (2)                            4th October, 2002
    Development Projects                                                           (7 days)
    Workshop (Kampala, Uganda)

39  Goods and Equipment                      1 MU (1)                              3rd to 26th       Ghana
    Procurement Course (Accra,                                                     October, 2003     Institute of
    Ghana)                                                                         (24 days)         Management
                                                                                                     and Public
                                                                                                     Admin.
40  Advanced Management Course               1 MU (1)                              5th October to 1stDTI
    (Mbabane, Swaziland)                                                           November, 2003


41  Dairy Cattle                            21          1        5        15       23rd November,    Kenya
    Management(Exchange Visit)                                                     2003              Productivity
                                                                                                     Institute
    TOTAL                                   96 66       10       5        15




                                               - 73 -

                                                Table 3

      STRATEGIC AND TECHNICAL STUDIES CONDUCTED IN MASAF II
                                (July 2000 to 30th Nov 2003)

No. Study/Consultancy            Date                    Details                               By Whom

1   Beneficiary Assessment (CSP) July ­ September, 2000 Technical assistance in the field of   Bunda Team
                                                         Beneficiary Assessment for CSP

2   Beneficiary Assessment       July ­ September, 2000 Technical assistance in the field of   Wadonda Consult
    (PWP)                                                Beneficiary Assessment for the PWP
                                                         Component

3   Technical Skill Training     18th September to 28th Orienting the District Technical staff David Mzandu
    Contract                     October, 2000           on the procedures to be followed in
                                                         the implementation of MASAF
                                                         funded projects

4   Technical assistance in the  23rd August to 22nd     Analysis, design, development and     WISS Limited
    field of Website Development September, 2000         implementing MASAF Project
                                                         website.
5   Project Tracking System      31st October to 14th    Technical assistance in the field of  Siblini
    Development                  December, 2000          the supervision of project tracking
                                                         system development

6   Biannual Audit Consultancy   1st November to 15th    Ascertaining and enhancing proper     KPMG, Graham Carr,
                                 December, 2000          and 0timely use and accountability    Mwenelupembe and
                                                         of funds advanced to the project and other Commercial
                                                         to subprojects.                       auditors.

7   Salary positioning survey    November, 2000          Reviewing MASAF pay structure in Imani Development
                                                         comparison with NGOs and              Ltd.
                                                         industrial sector

8   Cost estimation training     9th to 16th July, 2001  Training technical staff on adopting EMC Consulting
    contract                                             building standards, technical         Engineers
                                                         documents and skills in
                                                         computerized cost estimation.

9   Radio Design Consultancy .   Jan-02                  Providing MASAF beneficiaries and MBC (Kumvetsa
                                                         stakeholders with sufficient and      Bwino Programme)
                                                         accurate information order for them
                                                         to participate effectively in MASAF
                                                         Projects.
10  Biannual Audit Consultancy   12th December to 15th   Ascertaining and enhancing proper     Peter Holdworth,
    (Phase I)                    February, 2002          and timely use and accountability of Mwenelupembe &
                                                         funds advanced to the MASAF           Company, Deloitte &
                                                         Project and to subprojects.           Touche




                                                  - 74 -

No. Study/Consultancy            Date                    Details                                By Whome

11  Biannual Audit Consultancy   Apr-02                  Ascertaining and enhancing proper     Graham Carr,
    (Phase II)                                           and timely use and accountability of Mwenelupembe,
                                                         funds advanced to the MASAF           Deloitte & Touche,
                                                         Project and to subprojects.           KPMG

12  MASAF Television             Oct-02                  Informing, sensitizing, clarifying and Television Malawi
    Production and Airing                                reporting on various types of
                                                         projects local communities embark
                                                         under the MASAF Project.
13  Borehole Technical Review    October 2002 ­          Technical Assistance Services for a Willy and Partner
    Contract                     December 2002           detailed technical review of the      Engineering Services
                                                         MASAF borehole drilling

14  Biannual Audit Consultancy   May ­ July 2003         programme.
                                                         Ascertaining and enhancing proper     Deloite and Touche,
    for year ending 31st December                        and timely use and accountability of Mwenelupembe,
    2002                                                 funds advanced to the MASAF           Mhango and Company
                                                         Project and to subprojects.

15  Radio Material Production    1st October 2002 ­ 31st Sensitising, clarifying and reporting Malawi Broadcasting
    and airing for MASAF         May 2003                on MASAF project activities and       Corporation.
    Programme.                                           progress.
16  Beneficiary Assessment Study Sept ­Nov 2003          Evaluating qualitative                Participatory
                                                         accomplishments of MASAF II           Assessment
                                                         Project objectives and the design     Group(Zambia)
                                                         principles/assumptions through the
                                                         CSP, PWP and SSP interventions.




                                               - 75 -

Additional Annex 11. Borrower's ICR



                                 Government of Malawi


               OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND CABINET
                                       (OPC)




                        MINISTER OF STATE RESPONSIBLE FOR
                               POVERTY ALLEVIATION




                                        (ICR)


                                          For

                    MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND PHASE II
                             (MASAF II 1999 TO 2003)




                              Dated: Thursday April 8, 2004




                                         - 76 -

- 77 -

                                         Table of Contents

                                                                                              Page

List of Acronyms and Abbreviations    .......................................................  i

1.0  BACKGROUND                 .............................................................    2

2.0   MASAF II DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE                       ...............................      2
      2.1     Institutional Set Up and Project Components .....................                  2
      2.1.1   Community Sub projects Programme ..............................                    3
      2.1.2   Public Works Programme           ...........................................       3
      2.1.3   Sponsored Sub Projects Programme ...............................                   3
      2.1.4   Capacity Enhancement and Studies .................................                 3
3.0   ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT                      ........................................    3
      3.1     Assessment of the Project Objectives ................................             3
      3.2     Project Design .........................................................           4
4.0   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE                    ..........................................     4
      4.1     Project Impacts .........................................................          5
      4.1.1   CSP Impacts       ..........................................................       5
      4.1.2   PWP Impacts ..........................................................             5
      4.1.3   SSP Impacts.............................................................           6
5.0     OVERALL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES                                              6
      5.1     Project Level Experience .............................................             6
      5.1.1   Overwhelming Demand ..............................................                 6
      5.1.2   High Material Price Increase ........................................              6
      5.1.3   Parliamentary General Elections 1999 and the Local Government Elections in
              2000
              .............................................                                      6
      5.1.4   Drought Situation .....................................................            6
      5.1.5   Delayed Startup .......................................................            6
      5.1.6   Participation of Women ..............................................              6
      5.1.7   Lack of functioning Computerised Project Tracking System ....                      7
      5.1.8   Inadequate LA Capacity ..............................................              7
      5.2.1   Community Subprojects ..............................................               7
      5.2.2   Public Works ...........................................................           7
      5.2.3   Sponsored Sub Projects ..............................................              8
6.0   FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                               ...............     8
      6.1     Controllable factors       .................................................       8
      6.2     Uncontrollable Factors ...............................................             9
7.0   OTHER EXPERIENCES                  .....................................................  10
      7.1     Financial Management Issues .......................................               10
      7.2     Procurement Issues ...................................................            10
      7.3     Sustainability ..........................................................         10
8.0   BANK AND BOROWER COUNTRY PERFORMANCE                                .................     11



                                                  - 78 -

    8.1     Bank Performance       ...................................................     11
    8.2     Borrower Performance ...............................................           11
9.0 MAJOR LESSONS LEARNT                 .................................................  11
    9.1     Critical Role in the Project ............................................      11
9.2   The Need for Enhanced Knowledge and Information
            Sharing Systems ......................................................         11
    9.3     The Need to Improve subproject Appraisal Process ..............                12
    9.4     The Need to Finance Education Infrastructure as a Package......                12
    9.5     Strengthened Monitoring and Evaluation System .................                12
    9.6     The Need to Harness Social Capita to Create Economic Capital                   12
    9.7     The Need for Field Based Standard Operating Bills of Quantities                12
9.8   Need for a More Systematic and Mainstreamed
            Environmental Management Process ...............................               12
9.9   The potential of the Social Fund to Help in Deepening
            Decntralization Process ..............................................         12
    9.10    The Need for Increasing Community Voice in Service Delivery                    13
    9.11    The Need for Building LA Capacities and System for Development
            Planning ................................................................      13
    9.12    Effectiveness of PWP Safety Net Intervention ....................              13
    9.13    The Need to Improve targeting Mechanisms Under PWP ........                    13
    9.14    The Need for Strong Sector Linkages ..............................             13
    9.15    Emphasis on Road Subprojects .....................................             14
    9.16    Scaling Up The SSP Pilot ...........................................           14

Annexes
Annex 1     Progress Towards Indicators        .......................................     15
Annex II    Project Cost By Component .........................................            17
Annex III   Capacity Enhancement ...............................................           18
Annex IV    Workshop/Training Internal ..........................................          20
Annex IV    Workshop Training External ........................................            22
Annex V     Project Costs By Procurement Arrangements at Appraisal .......                 26
Annex V     Project Costs By Procurement Arrangements Actual                       ............  27

LIST OF ACCRONYMS
BA              Beneficiary Assessment

CSP             Community Sponsored Projects

CDD             Community Driven Development

CBO             Community Based Organization

DLG             Department of Local Government




                                               - 79 -

DEC        District Executive Committee

DFID       Department for International Development

DCA        Development Credit Agreement

ECDC       Early Childhood Development Centtre

EDRP       Emergency Drought Recovery Programme

FBO        Faith Based Organization

HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus

IDA        International Development Association

LA         Local Assembly

M&E        Monitoring and Learning

MASAF      Malawi Social Action Fund

NGO        Non Governmental Organization

O & M      Operation and Maintenance

PWP        Public Works Programme

PMC        Project Management Committee

PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
PAG        Participatory Assessment Group

PIA        Project Implementation Agency

RCWP       Relief Cash for Work Programme
TEVET      Technical and Vocational Entrepreneurial
           Training

                    MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND (MASAF) II
                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)


1.0  BACKGROUND



                                      - 80 -

   Poverty in Malawi continues to be pervasive, characterized by low per capita income, falling life expectancy,
   acute state of deprivation and lack of access to social infrastructure and services despite Government's
   investments into social and economic development. According to the Integrated Household Survey (IHS) 1998,
   the number of people living under the poverty line was 65.3%. The IHS currently underway will shed more
   light when the results are published by 2005. The pervasive nature of poverty was attributable to many factors
   impacting on the economy, and these include drought, the rising prices of basic commodities and the high
   prevalence of malaria, and high prevalence of HIV/AIDS (at 15% nationwide with urban rates at 23%). The
   HIV/AIDS pandemic continued to claim lives of those in the productive age group of 15-49 years (HIV/AIDS
   Survey, National AIDS Commission 2001). Illiteracy levels are high in Malawi at 40% (36.2% for men and
   54% for women) and 43% of the population with no access to safe water.

   Against this background and within the context of the Poverty Alleviation Programme the Government
   established the second Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF II) as a follow-up project to MASAF I, in a bid to
   continue addressing the poverty problems in the country.

2.0     MASAF II DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE

   MASAF II was designed to contribute towards poverty reduction within the context of the Poverty Reduction
   Framework. The main objective of the Project was to enhance and sustain the provision and use of resource
   endowments by beneficiary communities, which would contribute to their own socio-economic well-being. The
   specific objectives were to a) Provide additional resources and ensure sustainable use of services targeted at the
   poor vulnerable and marginalized groups through funding community level asset creation in education, health,
   water and other services; b) Support safety net programs through creation of temporary employment for the
   very poor and financing initiatives to assist the most vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children
   persons with disabilities, the aged and those affected by the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS),
   and c) Enhanced stakeholders' capacity to identify, prioritise, and implement projects through provision of
   training, technical assistance and funding of qualitative studies.

   2.1 Institutional Set Up and Project Components
   The MASAF Management Unit (MU), a quasi-autonomous agency under the Office of the President and
   Cabinet (OPC), implemented the Project with delegated authority for decision-making on operational matters.
   The OPC appointed the Executive Director and the MASAF Board. The OPC also chaired the Board. The
   Board comprised: a Traditional authority, the Director for Social Research, the Executive Secretary for
   CONGOMA, the Secretary to the Treasury, the Secretary for Economic Planning and Development, the
   Secretary for Justice, the Secretary for Department of Local Government and two independent members one
   with skills in urban planning and the other with private sector experience. The Board provided policy
   oversight to the MU, and monitored the MU's adherence to guidelines for operations as set out in the
   negotiated Project Manuals. In addition the Board also monitored the impact of MASAF on the communities
   reached.

   The MU had five directorates: Community Subprojects (CSP); Public Works Programme (PWP); and
   Sponsored Subprojects (SSP); Finance; and Administration. MASAF had four support units and these were:
   Information Technology, Communication and Training, Internal Audit, and Technical Services. During the
   course of implementation the Internal Audit Unit became a directorate, and the Finance and Administration
   directorates were merged. Twelve Zone Offices supported the MU (all 12 housed the CSP zones, four housed
   the PWP and three of the four PWP housed the SSP zones). The District Executive Committee (DEC), the
   Project Management Committee (PMC) and the CBO/NGO managed the implementation of the PWPs, CSPs
   and SSPs, respectively at the district and the community levels.

   The CSP, PWP and the SSP were the three operational directorates through which the MASAF II Project was
   to achieve the objectives. The Capacity Enhancement and Studies (CES) was to facilitate the
   institutionalization of capacity building and development for stakeholders in the demand driven development
   approach.


                                                      - 81 -

    2.1.1   Community Subprojects Programme
    The Community Sub-projects Programme (CSP) Component accounted for US$40.36 million that represented
    62.6% of IDA funding under MASAF II. It was aimed at contributing towards the attainment of the MASAF
    II Development Objective specifically by a) financing the creation of social and economic amenities for service
    delivery; and b) promoting participation with a view to contributing to development of capacities for
    participatory development management in rural and urban communities.

    2.1.2    Public Works Programme
    The Public Works Programme (PWP) Component accounted for US$13.28 million of IDA funding
    representing 20.6%. The Programme was implemented as a safety net scheme financing labour intensive
    public works. The goal was to transfer cash income to targeted poor individuals and households in urban and
    rural areas. The specific objective of the PWP was to: a) create temporary employment opportunities for
    income transfer; and b) in the process build economic infrastructure.

    Apart from the funding received from the IDA under Credit 3136 MAI, US$6 million was received from the
    Emergency Drought Recovery Project Credit Number 3715 MAI for relief related work. In addition parallel
    funding from the Government of Malawi amounting to MK113 million (US$1.26 million) was made available
    to implement the Relief Cash for Work Programme (RCWP) and US$11.25 million from the Department For
    International Development (DFID) of the United Kingdom.

2.1.3   Sponsored Subprojects Programme
    The Sponsored Subprojects Programme (SSP) accounted for US$3.34 of IDA funding representing 5.2% as a
    pilot. The Component aimed at strengthening the capacities of vulnerable and marginalized persons (orphans,
    street children, the aged, those affected with HIV/AIDS, and people with disabilities) and communities to
    reduce and/or cope with social risks. The specific objectives of the component were to a) Provide financial
    grants and technical resources for programmes targeted at marginalized groups by funding the initiatives
    sponsored by agencies Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) Community Based Organisations (CBOs)
    and Faith Based Organisations (FBOs) already working with these groups; and b) Support networking
    activities among NGOs, CBOs and other key actors working in this field to exchange information for policy
    and advocacy and co-ordination of programmes at the national level.

2.1.4   Capacity Enhancement and Studies
    The Capacity Enhancement and Studies aimed at financing capacity building and strengthening of the relevant
    MASAF stakeholders at all levels through training, workshops and study tours, commissioning beneficiary
    assessments; and other project related evaluative studies.

3       ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT

    This section looks at the Project objectives and design principles in the context of relevance to Government
    development priorities and prevailing conditions at the design stage. It will also assess the overall
    performance of the Project against its stated objectives. The assessment of the implementation is done in light
    of the extent to which MASAF II was able to meet its stated objectives.

    According to the Project Appraisal Document of September 17, 1998, and the Project Implementation
    Manual, the objectives of the MASAF Project did not change. The objectives are rated as satisfactory. The
    objectives remained relevant in the context of Government policies such as the poverty reduction and later
    dovetailed into the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and the Decentralisation policy of 1998.
    Provision of additional resources to communities to finance creation of assets in the social sectors of
    education, health and water continued to benefit the rural and urban poor.

    The safety net objective aimed at supporting the vulnerable able-bodied persons and the marginalized groups
    was relevant in the wake of continued need for support for these groups to access basic needs such as food.
    The effects of the drought in most areas and floods in some areas exacerbated the need for support under the


                                                       - 82 -

  SSP and the PWP.

  The Capacity Enhancement and Studies aimed at financing capacity building and strengthening of the
  relevant MASAF stakeholders at all levels. A number of workshops were conducted for the various
  stakeholders; MASAF staff attended courses in country and abroad thereby strengthened their capacity for
  development management. The project managed to train 30 artisans only through the MASAF and Technical
  and Vocational Entrepreneurial Training (TEVET) collaboration. Studies were undertaken which provided
  lessons for shaping the design of MASAF III operations (see table A).

  3.2 Project Design
  The Project design principles facilitated social capital formation and capacity building at the community level.
  The operative design principles of community participation, direct financing, autonomous management,
  transparency and accountability were instrumental in bringing about a sense of responsibility and
  accountability within communities. Community participation combined with autonomous management
  engendered a strong sense of ownership of the project by beneficiary communities, while the direct financing
  principle instilled a sense of self-confidence and importance in communities. Transparency and accountability
  as adopted by the project assisted in promoting horizontal (within community) accountability and trust
  amongst community members, and hence contributed towards enhancement of social capital, which is a
  critical ingredient in poverty reduction efforts. A Beneficiary Assessment (BA) carried out in 2003 has
  confirmed the effects of applying these principles and the resultant evidence of enhancement of social capital
  (Participatory Assessment Group, 2003). The application of these principles has been facilitated greatly by
  the IEC and other capacity enhancement initiatives aimed at strengthening collective responsibility.

4     ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE

  Performance of the Project was tracked using the indicators presented in Table A, which provides the status of
  achievement as at November 2003 by component. Achievement of the Project objective is rated highly
  satisfactory.

  The CSP substantially achieved its objective as evidenced by the 2,255 subprojects funded against a set target
  of 2,164 and having completed 2,145 of the funded subprojects. Performance on all the other indicators was
  highly satisfactory except the number of public and private sector persons trained. The subproject investments
  have gone beyond the expectation to include the capacity building in the PMC members for project
  management as they were able to see the projects to completion and account for the funds entrusted to them by
  the communities.

  The PWP achieved its objective of transferring cash income to the poor individuals and creating
  social-economic infrastructure through implementation of 374 subprojects. While the target was to have
  720,000 persons to receive at least two months wages 582,365 were reached receiving wages over a period of
  eight to nine months. The safety net operation was efficiently delivered at 46% of the total subproject budget
  accounting for the unskilled wages against a set target of 40%. The programme also helped improve project
  management capacities of the LA staff, councilors, PMCs (see table A) and supported the emergence and
  growth of small-scale construction contractors throughout the country. The skills transfer was achieved
  through the planned training sessions for the DEC, PMCs, and foremen and including the hands-on process
  for beneficiaries, most of who were able to get jobs with other contractors in the construction industry.

  The Sponsored Sub-Project component made considerable progress in assisting the Vulnerable and
  Marginalized groups. A total of 384 projects were funded. The subprojects benefited 252,686 vulnerable and
  marginalized persons, which included orphans, street children, elderly persons, people affected with
  HIV/AIDS, people with disabilities and communities where they live. Capacity building initiatives were
  carried out for the sponsoring agents and project support committees (see Table A).

  4.1 Project Impacts




                                                      - 83 -

A recording of achievements on outcome indicators shows that there were a number of beneficial effects
accruing to communities in the sub-project areas for all the components. This was as a result of creation of
various infrastructure assets as well as undertaking capacity enhancement and sub-project cycle processes.
Overall, an estimated 3.2 million people were direct beneficiaries of the various facilities see Table A. The BA
undertaken in September 2003 (Participatory Assessment Group, 2003) records the CSP effects as presented
in Table 3, as well as other qualitative achievements that communities reported on.

In all the components, there was high cash injection into the rural economy, which led to a number of
informal economic activities springing up. In all the three operational components due to lack of baseline data
it has not been possible to quantify the percentage increases. This has been a major lesson for MASAF, which
has informed the design of MASAF III, that baseline data is a must at the beginning of a project.

4.1.1    CSP Impacts
The effects of CSP activities on benefiting communities range from those relating to a sense of cohesion and
control as a result of project processes to effects arising from outputs created under the component. According
to the BA, the following are outcomes from the various outputs under the CSP Component as perceived
impacts by beneficiaries:

Education Sector: There has been: a) increased enrolment rates in schools that ranged from 1.9 percent to 63
percent in the schools supported with MASAF CSP funding; b) improved learning environment through the
provision of permanent classroom blocks and furniture, which compared favourably with the situation existing
before MASAF support; c) increased teacher motivation as a result of improved housing conditions; d)
increased pupil retention rates as pupils no longer left school close to them in search of good learning
conditions; and e) reduced distances to schools.

Health Sector: Reduced Incidences and treatment of water related diseases in project areas. Reported in 83 %
of cases.

Water Sector and Sanitation: There has been: a) reduced distances to water sources; and b) reduced
incidence of water borne diseases as a result of access to clean and potable water and hygiene education.

Transport: increased access to social and economic facilities as a result of the roads/bridges created under the
CSP.

In general, the BA confirmed that the investments under the CSP were having positive effects on the
benefiting communities. In some communities, due to the great demand for facilities such as classroom blocks
or water points relative to the population, it had been shown that the impacts of the investments were only
marginal. As such the few classroom blocks and water points that were provided in some communities could
not fully satisfy the demand for the facilities. However, this is reflective of the extent of need at national level
in terms of social services, and it implies a continued focus on addressing these needs for future programs.

4.1.2    PWP Impacts
Through the provision of temporary employment to 535,676 marginalized poor individuals, the program
managed to transfer a total of US$ 1.91million cash income. The transferred wage income assisted the poor
temporarily to cope with food insecurity due to shocks, the major ones being drought and floods and
commodity price increases. 5,802 Kilometres of road length were created which contributed towards access
and accessibility to social economic goods, services and facilities by rural communities. 3,050 hectares of land
were planted with trees contributing towards reduced rate of soil erosion that leads to land degradation.
However, the effect of the drought on the afforestation subprojects was that there was considerable reduction
of survival of the transplanted seedlings. The water resource conservation subprojects enabled communities to
engage in fish farming and irrigation consequently addressing food security.




                                                    - 84 -

    4.1.3    SSP Impacts
    Substantial benefits have been realised by the 252,686 beneficiaries of the various initiatives supported under
    the SSP. Notable are the vocational and business management skills acquired by the vulnerable groups and
    foster parents which enabled them to be self reliant economically in a sustainable manner. Support to Early
    Childhood Development Centre (ECDC) provided the children with a conducive learning environment and
    opportunity for improved nutrition status through the feeding programme. The ECDCs have also enabled
    foster parents gain some free time to attend to other household/economic chores. The PMC Pre-launch
    training sessions and the CBO/NGO/FBO orientation and experience-sharing Workshop accorded deeper
    understanding of the MASAF principles and procedures to 3,300 people and 842 sponsoring agency members,
    respectively.

5.0 OVERALL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES

    5.1 Project Level Experiences
    In the course of implementing the Project, a number of challenges met and they were characterized by the
    following:

    5.1.1  Overwhelming demand:
    There was overwhelming demand from the communities for financial support for their projects. MASAF could
    not meet the demand. By 2001 there were over 10,000 project proposals that were not funded. This was an
    indicator of the degree of poverty in Malawi and also the interest in MASAF.

    5.1.2    High Material Price increases: this put considerable pressure on sub-project budgets and was the
    main reason accounting for the budget overruns. Budgets had to be varied in order to accommodate these
    changes and to ensure that the subprojects were delivered as requested and planned by communities, District
    Executive Committees (DECs) and project implementation Agencies (PIAs) for service delivery.

    5.1.3     Parliamentary General elections in 1999 and the Local Government elections in 2000: The
    general elections in 1999, and local government elections in 2000 created general instability at the district and
    community levels that affected the implementation of the Project. Critical staff at the district level was
    deployed as returning officers, while some PMC members were involved in competing for the local
    government elected positions. Staff movements and new recruitments by the Department of Local Government
    following the passing of the Decentralization policy further compounded the situation.

    5.1.4     Drought Situation: In 2001/2002, a serious drought occurred and had a negative impact on
    Community participation particularly under the CSP as communities were more concerned with daily survival
    mechanisms that project work. Under the PWP the effect of the drought led to overwhelming demand for jobs
    due to food insecurity. The RCWP and the EDRP tried to scale up the support to the communities through
    safety nets, had impact on the capacities of the DECs.

    5.1.5     Delayed Start-up: MASAF II was a follow on Project to MASAF I to avoid a financing gap and as
    such there was delay of about ten months in the start-up of MASAF II operations because MASAF I
    completion rate needed to reach 80% of the total approved subprojects before MASAF II subprojects could be
    approved. Effectively this had `a back-end' loading effect on the MASAF II scheduled of activities.

    5.1.6        Participation of Women: An assessment of gender in community participation (Ndeti, 2003)
    revealed that there still existed social barriers that prevented women from actively participating in
    decision-making processes in sub-project implementation. Women participation continued to be hindered by
    factors such as viewing women as less than equal to men even if they were elected into decision-making
    positions. The ill scheduling of meetings (late afternoon) was also one of the reasons that led women to
    withdrawing their participation in decision-making processes. At the household level, the decision making
    power regarding expenditure of the wages earned from participation in the PWP was yet another area where
    women were not empowered as husbands continue to dominate in the decision making process. Under the SSP




                                                      - 85 -

    the participation of women as foster parents or caregivers to the sick and the elderly was seen a benevolent act
    not befitting men.

    5.1.7    Lack of Functioning Computerised Project Tracking System made it difficult to easily aggregate
    data collected in the various zones to construct the bigger picture of the MASAF Project status. For future
    operations, an effective data collection and project tracking system to track subproject progress should be a
    prerequisite.

    5.1.8      Inadequate LA Capacity: This was characterized by the following a) The LAs were supposed to
    implement the PWP by design. Areas of concern included: poor targeting of beneficiaries; late payment of
    wages due to inadequate transport and poor commitment of some LA staff; b) Inadequate capacity to
    effectively carryout technical and financial supervision of the operations in all three components due to staff
    attrition; c) available staff capacity limitations in the quality of supervision, particularly in areas with difficult
    soil types where engineering input during appraisal and construction was required, appeared to be less than
    adequate; and d) Under all components MASAF provided resources for the LAs to carry out supervision,
    recognizing that such and arrangement was not sustainable.

    Experiences by Component
    In addition to the challenges under MASAF II general experiences, listed below were the component specific
    ones:

    5.2.1     Community Subprojects
    Staffing of Health Facilities: A number of health units financed under MASAF 2 continued to be
    non-operational due to lack of staff to run the health facilities. This has left communities disappointed after
    investing in creating facilities to improve access health services. Under the MASAF 3, communities will be
    assisted to train people that can be deployed to provide the essential health services in the health units.

    5.2.2      Public Works
    The following were the additional challenges specific to the PWP:

              (i)      Coordination of Public Works initiatives at National and LA level
                       Implementation of public works by different donor agencies using different approaches
                       brought confusion at the community level. The issue of the wage rate was one example
                       where different agencies working in the same area paid different wage rates and adopted
                       different work norms due to differences in programme objectives, which were poorly
                       communicated to the beneficiaries. Lack of explicit sectoral guidelines compounded the
                       problem.

(ii)     Inadequate Operation and Maintenance Arrangements
                       Implementation experiences indicated that there are weak operation and maintenance
                       arrangements for road subprojects at the local authority level. There were no road network
                       maintenance plans to guide operations, in addition there inadequate financial resources. It is
                       hoped that the decentralization process will enable LAs overcome the problem through
                       provision of resources from the central government, particularly appropriations from the fuel
                       levy.

              (iii)    Low Community Participation
                       In most PWP subprojects community participation was mainly limited to unskilled labour
                       provision. Despite having a PMC the Local Authorities have the upper hand in project
                       implementation MASAF BA III (PAG). By design, major project management decisions e.g.
                       procurement, project selection, were done by LA officials in most cases. It will be necessary
                       to strengthen the participation of communities through the participatory rural appraisals to
                       feef into the development LA Development Plans. This problem will be checked in MASAF



                                                          - 86 -

                      III through the open-ended and extended-PRAs and community score-card.

         5.2.3     Sponsored Subprojects
         The major challenges experienced during the delivery of SSP were capacity problems, targeting, poor
         monitoring and reporting.

              (i)     Weak Institutional Capacity: There were various forms of capacity problems that affected
                      the operations of the sponsoring agencies          including:(a) capacity problems by the
                      implementing agencies in accounting of funds and management of interventions in a
                      transparent way to ensure trickling of benefits to the intended beneficiaries. This called for
                      upfront capacity building to ensure successful delivery of services in an efficient and effective
                      manner and set time frame when benefits could start trickling down to the beneficiaries for
                      each subproject type, and (b) there was limited capacity on the part of the beneficiary
                      community to monitor activities and demand accountability from sponsoring agencies. This
                      has been taken care of in the design of MASAF III where communities will be taken through
                      the score-card process.

              (ii)    Motives of implementing agencies. Some NGOs/CBO/FBOs had hidden                  motives whilst
                      working in the field of vulnerability, the main interest was to access funds from MASAF for
                      personal gains. To curb this problem, MASAF developed stringent screening criteria in
                      conjunction with concerned, to ensure that support is channeled through legitimate
                      institutions.

(ii)     Due to Unequal distribution of these implementing agencies it was problematic to reach the target
groups in remote areas as they are not covered by the known NGOs/CBOs and FBOs, which tend to work in urban
centers. MASAF responded to this challenge by facilitating registration of small groups of volunteers working in
rural areas.

              (vi)    Targeting
                      In a country where 65% of the population is poor and 28% is described as ultra poor, it was
                      not easy to come up with a targeting criterion that would avoid serious inclusion and
                      exclusion errors. In this regard MASAF with the beneficiaries input defined vulnerability
                      and its indicators.     This formed the basis for developing the selection criteria for
                      beneficiaries.

6.0      FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

         6.1       Controllable Factors
         The lack of a functioning and computerized project tracking system greatly affected the data collection to
         facilitate monitoring and evaluation. Although the manual system worked satisfactorily, it was difficult to
         easily aggregate data collected in the various zones to construct the bigger picture of the MASAF Project
         status.

         Recruitment of other critical staff such as the Procurement Manager and the Monitoring and Evaluation
         Officer were not on board form Project inception.

         Maintaining the wage rate at below the rural/urban minimum wage rate had been an issue affecting the
         PWP operations. At the beginning of MASAF II, the wage rate was at MK15.90 per task rate. The wage
         was revised to MK25.00 and the to MK30.00. The wage levels under the PWP were challenged on
         account that if MASAF objective is to help the poor to improve their livelihoods, participating
         beneficiaries should be paid a wage that sufficiently meets their basic needs plus household investment
         requirements. Under the DFID supported PWP, a study will commissioned to look into ways of getting the
         wage right.




                                                       - 87 -

     6.2       Uncontrollable Factors
     High Material Price increases put considerable pressure on sub-project budgets and was the main reason
     accounting for budget overruns. Budgets had to be varied in order to accommodate these changes and to
     ensure that the community projects were delivered as requested and planned by communities, DECs and
     PIAs for service delivery.

     The general elections in 1999, and local government elections in 2000 created general instability at the
     district and community levels that affected the implementation of the Project as LA staff and PMC
     members were involved in one way or another. Staff movements and new recruitments by the DLG
     following the passing of the Decentralization policy, further compounded the situation.

     The drought in 2001/2002had led to acute food shortages such that it had a negative impact on project
     implementation. Communities were more concerned with survival mechanisms and their participation
     declined with the result that the general implementation pace of the Project, particularly under the CSP
     component slowed significantly. Under the PWP the effect of the drought led to overwhelming demand for
     jobs due to food insecurity.

     The HIV/AIDS pandemic continued to scourge the country at community district and national levels
     thereby negatively impacting on the Project implementation due to numerous deaths of productive
     persons. The time spent attending funerals by the communities erodes the availability of time and labor for
     productive work.

     The need for Increasing Community Voice in Service Delivery: Experiences with implementing the
     Project has shown the potential for increasing community voice in the development process in general, as
     well as in the delivery of services in particular. This has been demonstrated by the ability of communities
     to exact accountability on Project Management Committees and DECs that are charged with the
     responsibility of managing sub-project funds. Through similar processes under MASAF I and II that have
     enhanced social capital, there is potential for a more organized and coordinated possibility for bringing
     the accountability processes to a wider canvas. It is envisaged that the participatory community
     monitoring and accountability through the community scorecard system under the proposed MASAF III
     will go a long way in achieving this.

     Implementation experiences revealed inadequacies in the LAs' capacity to effectively plan and implement
     subprojects. MASAF Beneficiary Assessment III (Participatory Assessment Group)There are a number of
     incoherencies and contradictions in development planning and management in the LAs that are
     characterized by: a) duplication of similar activities funded by different agencies; b) concentration of
     projects in one geographical area while others that are equally deserving are starved; c) inactive
     participation of communities in subprojects identification. d) selection of projects mostly influenced by LA
     officials; and d) differing development approaches by different donors and development stakeholders.




7.0  OTHER EXPERIENCES

     7.1       Financial Management Issues
     The total MASAF II funding was US$77.33million. The IDA contribution was US$66.0 million while the
     Government of Malawi contributed US$3.67 million and US$9.2million community contribution.
     US$64.46 million was disbursed from IDA. By March 2004, a total of US$50.98 million was disbursed
     out of a total allocation of US$51.10 million in the CSP, representing 99.8%, some funds were allocated
     away from the CSP. Under the PWP, a total of US$13.98 million was disbursed, representing 106.7% out
     of the initial allocation of US$13.1 million. The variance was due to reallocation of funds made available
     to the Component. A total of US$4.22 million (IDA, US$3.34 million; Government US$0.18 million; and


                                                     - 88 -

     community contribution of US$0.70 million) under the SSP was disbursed, see Annex II.

     At inception MASAF II had a float of US$3 million in the Special Account from IDA. By April 2002 IDA
     approved an increase in the float from US$3m to US$4.5m. The increase in the float assisted in the cash
     inflows as the Project was on fast track disbursing to subprojects.

     In the course of implementing MASAF II there were two major changes to the DCA one was affecting the
     change in the float level and the second one was for effecting reallocation of funds amongst categories
     responding to the demands in the operations.

     Due to the robustness of the MASAF systems and procedures, MASAF was made to manage funds for the
     Village Housing Project on behalf of Government; Government also provided funding to MASAF for the
     Relief Cash for Work Programme; and the Department for International Development also started funding
     safety net operations through MASAF.

     7.2       Procurement Issues
     In general, procurement at both Management Unit, Local Authority and community level was satisfactory.
     At community level, PMCs were able to procure materials, engage and supervise contractors and account
     for resources adequately. However, several challenges such as PMCs being cheated by unscrupulous
     traders, facilitation of procurement process by some officials and judgment by PMCs on what to buy and
     when, were met. Record keeping by some implementers was also problematic. The position of
     Procurement Manager was intermittently filled such that there was no continuity during implementation.
     Absence of the Procurement Manager until 2002, resulted in delays in carrying out critical steps that were
     a requirement of procurement processes. These experiences have informed the design of MASAF III and
     efforts will be focused on building capacity of implementers in procurement at Local Authority and
     community level, carrying out regular procurement audits and enforcement of good record keeping at all
     levels.


     7.3       Sustainability
     The sustainability of sub-projects created under MASAF II is rated satisfactory. MASAF II subprojects
     were similar to those done under MASAF I, where community level institutional arrangements to ensure
     that the facilities created are sustainable are in place. These include parents and teachers association,
     school committees, water point committees and village natural resources committees that are charged with
     the responsibility for operation and maintenance. A survey (Bloom et al 2003) that looked at MASAF 1
     contribution to reduction of poverty and sustainability of assets found that the arrangements for similar
     facilities constructed under MASAF 2 such water points that require frequent O& M contributions from
     communities were in place and functioning three to five years after the creation of the facilities. However,
     challenges continued to be faced with respect to road subprojects in regard to O&M arrangements.
     Building capacities for communities and LA for O&M of roads sub-projects should therefore be a critical
     consideration in designing future operations.


8.0  BANK AND BORROWER COUNTRY PERFORMANCE

31

     8.1       Bank Performance
     The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The appraisal of the MASAF II was timely carried out
     during implementation of MASAF I, which ensured that there was no financing gap in the project
     activities.

     Bank staff provided technical advice during supervision missions throughout implementation. They made



                                                    - 89 -

     effective follow up on issues raised during the visits particularly that required action from the Bank. For
     instance changes in the DCA for reallocation of funds and changes in float size were timely. Generally,
     the Bank support to the Project was invaluable, and contributed to the satisfactory achievement rates in the
     indicator targets.

     8.2      Borrower Performance
     Government's performance is rated highly satisfactory. Government continued to accord MASAF the high
     profile it had in MASAF I as one of the poverty reduction instrument. This was demonstrated by the
     support from the President and the provision of counterpart funding by Government to the Project.
     Notwithstanding the fact that the counterpart funds were remitted intermittently, the Government
     performed well considering the financial resource constraints in the economy.

     The Project also had support from the Reserve Bank of Malawi, the Accountant General and the Debt and
     Aid Management Section in the manner disbursements were processed. The Auditor General was always
     on time for the audits as required by the DCA.

     The MASAF staff continued to demonstrate unprecedented commitment to work towards achievement of
     the Project objectives. Their commitment to transparency and accountability was demonstrated by their
     adherence to the DCA covenants as well as the MASAF code of ethics, which was put in place over and
     above the requirements as stipulated in the Project Implementation Manuals. The substantial
     achievements on key project performance indicators bear testimony to this commitment.

9.0  MAJOR LESSONS LEARNT

     Implementation of MASAF 2 has led to a number of lessons and experiences that need to be considered in
     designing future CDD operations. These lessons have been crystallized from MASAF's own reporting
     experiences, studies, direct feedback from communities and other stakeholders. Most of the lessons
     highlighted below have been incorporated in the design of MASAF III.

     9.1      Critical Role of IEC in the Project: the IEC continued to be the oil that drove the MASAF II
     operations machinery. It synthesized experiences from communities, local authorities and NGOs into
     useful knowledge and information that contributed to increased and informed community participation in
     the sub-project implementation process. Future operations will need to retain Development
     Communication as an integral element of the Project design.

     9.2      The need for enhanced knowledge and information sharing systems: during the course of
     implementing the Project, the need for an enhanced knowledge sharing system had arisen. Experience
     showed that there were varying degrees of understanding of the Project process and procedures by
     communities. While those projects implementing sub-projects had a thorough understanding of the
     processes and procedures, communities that had not benefited had only scanty information and knowledge
     of the processes. Moreover, not all people that had heard about MASAF were found to be deliberate
     listeners of the MASAF related information. There is need therefore, to find new ways of increasing
     knowledge and information sharing including `community to community exchanges', as well as making
     the messages interesting through drama and folklore in order to create deliberate listeners for MASAF
     messages, with a view to increasing both the quality and levels of participation in MASAF funded
     activities.




                                                  - 90 -

9.3       The need to improve subproject appraisal process: it has been noted that engineering input, in
places where the soil texture is clayey, particularly at the appraisal stage and during implementation is
critical for successful implementation of the various facilities. Places such as Salima, where some facilities
such as latrines collapsed shortly after construction confirms this need. Construction of flood control
infrastructure is yet another area where there is need to improve appraisal process. Both the LAs and
MASAF had demonstrated that capacity in this area is inadequate.

9.4       The Need to Finance Education Infrastructure as a Package: although there was a standard
package for financing projects in the education sectors, implementation experience has shown that when
only facilities such as staff houses or school halls are financed, the benefits to communities are only up to
certain extent, resulting in low satisfaction rates for the facilities by the beneficiaries. There is need
therefore, to finance holistically the various education infrastructure requirements, in line with
communities' capacities to implement the packages financed. This has been taken care of in MASAF III
as the community service package approach to project packaging will be a requisite.

9.5       Strengthened Monitoring and Evaluation System: the need for strengthened capacities for
monitoring and evaluation was seen to be crucial for achieving program accountability. While the Project
has been able to track trends in respect to internal efficiencies, the tracking of outcome and impact
indicators has been partial. Furthermore, there are weak linkages with mainstream national level poverty
monitoring arrangements. This has rendered assessing and quantifying the MASAF achievements and
contribution to poverty reduction difficult, indeed.

9.6       The Need to Harness Social Capital to Create Economic Capital: MASAF I and II
experiences with community participation have shown the potency of social capital to be used as a vehicle
for meeting economic ends. Currently, the enhanced nodes of social capital spread throughout the country
in the form of Project Management Committees and groups working under the PWP and SSP could be
used to form the basis for economic organization such as savings and investments. This would lead to a
direct impact on poverty at the individual and household levels.

9.7       The Need for Field Based Standard Operating Bills of Quantities: the implementation of a
CDD program such as MASAF where acquisition of goods and services for the delivery of sub-projects
involves many actors requires that costs for the types of infrastructure components funded are more or less
estimated with a greater deal of accuracy. This will not only facilitate cost effectiveness in the delivery of
the Project, but will also take account of differing requirements for each geographical location and the
literacy levels of some of the implementing agents.

9.8       Need for a More Systematic and Mainstreamed Environmental Management Process:
Experience with the application of Environmental Impact Assessment in the project cycle process shows
that application has not been consistent across the three operational programs. There is therefore need to
enhance the framework for ensuring that the Environmental Assessment Management Plan is effectively
integrated into the subproject cycle processes. In view of this, the Project has developed a framework and
sectoral checklist that require each sub-project to have an environmental management plan.

9.9       The Potential of the Social Fund to Help in Deepening Decentralization Process: while
MASAF 1 and 2 largely operated to bridge the gap between the District Assembly and the communities,
the empowerment processes and attainment made over the years are seen as a platform for achieving
meaningful partnerships among communities, local governments and non-governmental organizations in
the delivery of development projects and services. In this regard, a future operation should seek to
leverage this comparative advantage in working with communities to strengthen the decentralization
program and assist sectoral ministries to devolve to LA level.      MASAF II had devolved to assembly by
reducing number of zones from 19 to 3.




                                                - 91 -

9.10     The Need for Increasing Community Voice in Service Delivery: Experiences with
implementing the Project has shown the potential for increasing community voice in the development
process in general, as well as in the delivery of services in particular. This has been demonstrated by the
ability of communities to exact accountability on Project Management Committees and DECs that are
charged with the responsibility of managing sub-project funds. Through similar processes under MASAF
I and II that have enhanced social capital, there is potential for a more organized and coordinated
possibility for bringing    the accountability processes to      a wider canvas. It is envisaged that the
participatory community monitoring and accountability through the community score-card system under
the proposed MASAF III will go a long way in achieving this.

9.11 The Need for Building LA Capacities and Systems for Development Planning: Implementation
experiences revealed inadequacies in the LA capacity to effectively plan and implement subprojects.
MASAF Beneficiary Assessment III (Participatory Assessment Group)There are a number of
incoherencies and contradictions in development planning and implementation in the LA's that are
characterized by:   a) duplication of similar activities funded by different agencies; concentration of
projects in one geographical area while others that are equally deserving are starved; b) inactive
participation of communities in subprojects identification. Selection mostly influenced by DA officials;
and c) differing development approaches by different donors and development stakeholders. In view of
this, there is need to ensure that Local Authorities work towards building capacities for effective
development management. Support in this regard to LAs, should focus on enhancing their planning
systems that will contribute to efficient intra-district allocation, transparency and accountability. In
addition, LA officials should be trained in financial management, monitoring and evaluation, technical
supervision skills, as well as participatory development management skills to assist them work with
communities effectively.

9.12     Effectiveness of PWP Safety Net Intervention: Paying of a low wage rate MASAF wage was
set 20% below the government rural minimum wage. that is set below the minimum rural wage rate
coupled with the short duration 3 to 6 months of employment on PWP's, only afforded beneficiaries to
meet their immediate consumption smoothing needs. This experience has given rise the need to critically
review the PWP with a view to transforming it into an intervention for enhancing the economic
progression of the beneficiaries out of extreme poverty. Pursuant to this, MASAF is working with CARE
International in a DFID funded pilot project in four districts to test approaches that would add value to the
effectiveness and impact of the PWP beyond the wage transfer to improve livelihoods in a more
sustainable manner.

9.13     The Need to Improve Targeting Mechanisms under PWP: The programme wage rate was
deliberately set below the minimum rural wage rate to ensure that only poor individuals self-selected
themselves into the programme. In most LAs the number of qualified job applicants exceeded the
available job quota under the PWP subprojects. Thus local community leaders who used a crude wealth
ranking targeting methodology or a first come first served basis selection mode mainly led the beneficiary
selection process. Such a selection process worked to the disadvantage of deserving poor community
members who were mostly excluded to due to late registering or leakages in the wealth ranking processes.
Getting the targeting right will go a long way in correcting inclusion and exclusion errors in the selection
of beneficiaries.




                                               - 92 -

9.14      The Need for Strong Sector Linkages: Implementation of the MASAF Project called for greater
need for strong working linkages between the district level staff (who are in contact with the community)
and central government officials. The existence of a robust link between the two staff levels in the context
of realigning the center would enhance efficiency in the management of development programs at the
district level, including rational allocation of available resources and guided formulation of policies and
norms at the national level. This follows from the fact that the LAs have access to and would provide up
to date information of the situation on the ground that is vital for the guiding of the sector norms and to
policy formulation. In turn the central government would respond appropriately in ensuring that resources
are available i.e. qualified personnel to oversee management of the implementation of development
programs and finances to meet recurrent costs for community investments realized from donor-funded
programs. In the final analysis this would result in the provision of timely, quality and sustainable service
interventions to the communities.

9.15      Emphasis on Road Subprojects
A large share of the funded PWP subprojects was taken up by road rehabilitation/construction subprojects.
However road works are easily and best done after the rainy season when the soil is moist but this period
coincides with the crop harvest activities ­ this is the time of plenty. The `hungry period' that is almost
cyclic occurs during the rainy season during which time road works are difficult to implement especially
with labour based methodologies. The net effect seems to be a mismatch in terms of timing of the PWP
road construction activities and the need. There is need to continue sensitizing the communities to
consider other types of subprojects apart from roads which could easily be implemented during the rainy
season.

9.16      Scaling up the SSP Pilot: The implementation of the SSP under MASAF was considered to be a
pilot Programme although it was later scaled up considerably. A lot of lessons and experiences were
encountered in the course of project implementation and these included the following: a)
CBOs/NGOs/FBOs can deliver and are in better position to sustain their activities if they are given
necessary support after proper capacity assessment. Capacity building is one important support aspect for
PIAs and should be looked at holistically, thus there is need to build capacities of all systems that are
associated with PIAs performance; b) There was need to determine subproject cost-effectiveness and
cost-benefit accruals and the SSP will have to consider undertaking the study before supporting
communities with subprojects; c) It is necessary to design simple and clear procedures and guidelines to
support PIAs operations. These will assist PIAs throughout the subproject cycle processes; d) Well-trained
personnel at the LA level to technically backstop the PIAs in project cycle processes is important for
success of the project; and e) In order to effectively monitor that benefits are timely trickling down to
beneficiaries, there is need to set time frame when benefits can start trickling down to the beneficiaries for
each sub project type.




                                                - 93 -

                                                                                               ANNEX I
Table A

PROGRESS TOWARDS INDICATORS As At March 2004


INDICATOR                              TARGET      ACHIEVEMENT     REMARK

1.0 National Indicators
1.1 Budget allocated to Social Sectors 5%                    -    Data not available
% increase between 1998 and 2002
1.2 Per capita income % increase       180%        7.06%          According to the Economic Report
between 1998 and 2002                                             2003
1.3 % decrease of people living under 10%          None           No change from 1998, currently IHS
the poverty line by 2002                                          is under way and information will be
                                                                  available in 2005
1.4 Total population with increased    3.0 million 3.2 million    Beneficiaries under CSP, PWP and
access to infrastructure                                          SSP

2.0 Community Sub Projects
    Component
2.1. Total number of community         Not set     12,130
sub-project requests received
2.2. Total number of community         2,164       2,255
sub-projects funded.
2.3. Total number of community         2,164       2,216          39 not completed by EOP
sub-projects completed
2.4 % of women participating in       39 %         38.1%          8.1 % increase over MASAF I
PMCs                                                              attainment
2.5 Proportion (% share) of women      50 %        56 %             Composition of women higher
in WPCs.                                                           than men in WPCs
2.6 Number of public and private       2,900       614 persons     Comprises village head persons,
sector persons trained in CSP          persons                     Group Village head persons and
(excluding PMCs)                                                   ward councilors
2.7 Percentage of infrastructure       100 %       98.2 %          Some health facilities are waiting
(schools, heath units and other) used,                             for staff.
managed and maintained
2.8 Proportion of Water Point          100%        98 %            Some WPCs in Blantyre Zone
Committee (WPCs) trained in CBM                                    still not trained.
for water facilities.
2.9No. of urban works (CSP)           100          93              These projects are also included in
Completed                                                          2.2 and 2.3

3.0 Public Works Program (PWP)
3.1 Number of sub-projects requests Not set        1,279           Based on requests from District
received.                                                          Assemblies using Vulnerability
                                                                   Assessment Mapping.
3.2 Number of sub-projects funded      286         382
3.3 Number of sub-projects             286          376            6 not completed by EOP
completed.



                                                    - 94 -

3.4 No. of individuals that received at 720,000   535,676    Average project duration is 8-9
least 2 months wages (IDA) 1998 ­                            months. Number of participants per
2003                                                         project was not 630 as planned but
                                                             300.
3.5 Number of households benefiting 80,000        119,039    Per Zone quarterly reports
from employment.
3.6 Number of women in receipt of       100,000   244,274    Per Zone quarterly reports
wages for at least two months.
3.7 % share of subproject costs         40 %       46 %       Per Zone quarterly reports.
accounting for unskilled labor wages.

3.8 No of District Assembly                                  195 councillors
Councillors oriented                    300       302
3.9 Number of Assembly and                                    107 senior staff
sectoral staff oriented.
3.10. Total number of people            3,400      3,508      (a) District- 405, cashiers-39 and
trained at sub-project level                                  (b) foremen ­452, PMCs 2,712
         (a)   District Level                      444
         (b)   Project Level                       3,164
3.11 % of women in PWP PMCs             50 %       25%



4.0 Sponsored Sub-projects
Component (SSP)
4.01 Total number of sponsored         Demand     1,344
sub-project requests received          Driven
4.02 Total number of sponsored         43         384
sub-projects funded
4.03 Total number of sponsored         43         374        -10 cancelled due to gross
projects completed.                                          mismanagement of funds
4.04 Total number of people            CBO/NGO    252,686
benefiting from sub-projects.          dependent.
- No of orphans                        Not set    209,832
- No. of elderly                       Not set    4,698
- No. of street children               Not set    40
- No. of chronically ill and those     Not set    18.154
affected by HIV/Aids
- No. of people with disabilities      Not set    20,962
4.05 Proportion (%) of females         Not set     60%
benefiting from sub-projects.
4.06 Proportion (%) of women           50 %        54%
participating in committees (PSCs).
4.07 Number of NGOs / CBOs             43         275
trained in project cycle management
in SSP
4.8 Number of PSC members              430        3,250
trained



                                                                                          ANNEX II




                                                   - 95 -

                                               Project Cost Financing

                              Project Cost by Components (in US$ Million Equivalent)

Project Cost by Component Appraisal Estimate US$          Actual Estimate US$ million Percentage of Appraisal
                            million

Community Sub Projects                              51.10                         50.98          99.8%
Public Works Programme                              13.10                         13.98          107%
Sponsored Sub Projects                                0.50                          4.22         843%
Capacity Enhancement                                  3.90                          3.46         89%
Incremental Operating Costs                           7.50                          4.69         63%

Total                                               76.10                         77.33          102%



a) Note that during implementation there were additional reallocation of funds to PWP
         and SSP hence Percentages are over the appraisal estimate figures
b) SSP figures also went up due to community contribution which
        was not envisaged at appraisal.


                           Project Financing by Component (in US$ Million Equivalent)

  Component         Appraisal                                          Actual
                    Estimate                                          Estimate
                       IDA             Govt.            CoF              IDA             Covt.          Cof      IDA

  Community            42.6             2.20            6.30            40.36             2.12         8.50      95%
  Sub Projects
 Public Works          12.5             0.60            0.00            13.28             0.70         0.00      106%
  Programme
 Sponsored Sub         0.5              0.10            0.00             3.34             0.18         0.70      668%
     Project
    Capacity           3.9              0.00            0.00             3.46             0.00         0.00      89%
 Enhancement
  Incremental          6.5              1.00            0.00             4.02             0.67         0.00      62%
Operating Costs

   TOTALS               66              3.9             0.00            64.46             3.67         9.20      0.98
Notes:
Actual CoF Financing figures are an estimation of community Contribution for
Community Sub Projects (CSP) and Sponsored Sub Projects (SSP) components



                                                                                                     ANNEX III

Table 3
CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT:
STRATEGIC AND TECHNICAL STUDIES CONDUCTED IN MASAF II (July 2000 - 30th Nov 2003)
NO     STUDY/                 DATE              DETAILS                                             BY WHOM
.      CONSULTANCY
1      Beneficiary            July ­            Technical assistance in the field of Beneficiary    Bunda Team
       Assessment (CSP)       September,        Assessment for CSP



                                                       - 96 -

                        2000
2  Beneficiary          July ­         Technical assistance in the field of Beneficiary     Wadonda
   Assessment (PWP)     September,     Assessment for the PWP Component                     Consult
                        2000
3  Technical Skill      18th           Orienting the District Technical staff on the        David Mzandu
   Training Contract    September to   procedures to be followed in the implementation
                        28th October,  of MASAF funded projects
                        2000
4  Technical assistance 23rd August to Analysis, design, development and implementing       WISS Limited
   in the field of      22nd           MASAF Project website.
   Website              September,
   Development          2000
5  Project Tracking    31st October to Technical assistance in the field of the supervision Siblini
   System Development 14th December,   of project tracking system development
                       2000
6  Biannual Audit       1st November   Ascertaining and enhancing proper and timely use     KPMG, Graham
   Consultancy          to 15th        and accountability of funds advanced to the          Carr,
                        December,      project and to subprojects.                          Mwenelupembe
                        2000                                                                and other
                                                                                            Commercial
                                                                                            auditors.
7  Salary positioning   November,      Reviewing MASAF pay structure in comparison          Imani
   survey               2000           with NGOs and industrial sector                      Development
                                                                                            Ltd.
8  Cost estimation      9th to 16th    Training technical staff on adopting building        EMC Consulting
   training contract    July, 2001     standards, technical documents and skills in         Engineers
                                       computerized cost estimation.
9  Radio Design         January 2002   Providing MASAF beneficiaries and stakeholders       MBC (Kumvetsa
   Consultancy .                       with sufficient and accurate information order for   Bwino
                                       them to participate effectively in MASAF             Programme)
                                       Projects.
10 Biannual Audit       12th           Ascertaining and enhancing proper and timely use     Peter Holdworth,
   Consultancy          December to    and accountability of funds advanced to the          Mwenelupembe
   (Phase I)            15th February, MASAF Project and to subprojects.                    & Company,
                        2002                                                                Deloitte &
                                                                                            Touche
11 Biannual Audit       April 2002     Ascertaining and enhancing proper and timely use     Graham Carr,
   Consultancy                         and accountability of funds advanced to the          Mwenelupembe,
   (Phase II)                          MASAF Project and to subprojects.                    Deloitte &
                                                                                            Touche, KPMG
12 MASAF Television     October 2002   Informing, sensitizing, clarifying and reporting on  Television
   Production and                      various types of projects local communities          Malawi
   Airing                              embark under the MASAF Project.
13 Borehole Technical   October 2002   Technical Assistance Services for a detailed         Willy and
   Review Contract      ­ December     technical review of the MASAF borehole drilling      Partner
                        2002           programme.                                           Engineering
                                                                                            Services
14 Biannual Audit       May ­ July     Ascertaining and enhancing proper and timely use     Deloite and
   Consultancy for      2003           and accountability of funds advanced to the          Touche,
   year ending 31st                    MASAF Project and to subprojects.                    Mwenelupembe,
   December 2002                                                                            Mhango and
                                                                                            Company




                                              - 97 -

15  Radio Material         1st October    Sensitising, clarifying and reporting on MASAF      Malawi
    Production and         2002 ­ 31st    project activities and progress.                    Broadcasting
    airing for MASAF       May 2003                                                           Corporation.
    Programme.
16  Beneficiary            Sept ­Nov      Evaluating qualitative accomplishments of           Participatory
    Assessment Study       2003           MASAF II Project objectives and the design          Assessment
                                          principles/assumptions through the CSP, PWP         Group(Zambia)
                                          and SSP interventions.
17  Review of Cost         Oct ­ Nov      Analysing Project Cost effectiveness in terms of    EMC Jatula
    Effectiveness and      2002           cost estimation procedures and project              Associates
    Technical Design                      expenditure implementation
    Standards (PHRD
    Grands)
18  Review of MASAF        Oct ­ Nov      Assessing M&E arrangements and designing a          STC Group
    M&E Systems            2002           comprehensive M&E system for MASAF
    (PHRD Grands)
19 Institutional          Oct ­ Dec 2002  Reviewing and developing a MASAF                    MSC
   Development, HR                        Management structure, HR management systems
   Management and                         and policies, and training needs suitable for long
   Training Needs                         term project
   Assessment Study
   (PHRD Grants)
20  Study on               Oct ­Dec 2002  Carrying out a qualitative and quantitative         SADCC Center
    Development                           baseline survey for the MASAF development           of
    Communication for                     communication programme and developing a            Communication
    MASAF (PHRD                           communication campaign strategy for achieving       for
    GRANT)                                positive behaviour towards community                Development(Zi
                                          empowerment and development projects.               mbabwe)
21 Review of Financial    Oct- Nov 2002  Reviewing, revising and introducing improvements     O&M Associates
   Systems of MASAF                      in the financial systems for effective implementation
   (PHRD GRANTS)                         of MASAF III
22 Institutional and LegalJan 2003-MarchAssessing MASAF mandate and legal framework           Banda,Banda&
   Assessment of          2003           with a view to designing an appropriate framework Company
   MASAF (PHRD                           for a longer term organisation
   GRANTS)
23 Systematic Client      March - AprilSoliciting the views of stakeholders for               Millenium
   Consultation for       2003           improvements to the SSP in order for the             Consulting
   Vulnerability and SSP                 programme to respond more positively to its target   Group
   Interventions (PHRD                   group
   GRANTS)
24  Community Savings      Jan     ­April Assessing efforts in community savings and          World
    and Investment         2003           investment promotion in the country and             Education(Cana
    Promotion (PHRD                       designing a workable strategy for Savings and       da)
    GRANTS)                               Investments in MASAF III




                                                  - 98 -

                                                                                       ANNEX IV


Table 1

WORKSHOP/TRAINING INTERNAL (April 2001 ­ Nov 2003)

      Activity           No. of       No. of Participants by Geographical   How Often   By Whom
                         Participants Distribution
                                      National                              Zonal       DistrictP
                                                                                        MC
1     Budgeting and      26           MU (10)                               ZMs (16)    2nd to 4th
      Budgetary                                                                         April, 2001
      Control                                                                           (3
                                                                                        days)Mala
                                                                                        wi College
                                                                                        of
                                                                                        Accountanc
                                                                                        y
2     Orientation on     3            MU (3)                                            23rd April,
      Website                                                                           2001 (1
      Management                                                                        day)WISS
3     Procurement        2            MU (2)                                            1st to 7th
      Workshop                                                                          May,
                                                                                        2001Treasu
                                                                                        ry
4     Autocard           3            MU (3)                                            23rd ­ 24th
      Orientation                                                                       May,
                                                                                        2001LARR
                                                                                        Y
                                                                                        Computers
5     Project            68                                                 12          DEC
      Justification                                                                     (56)14th to
                                                                                        16th May,
                                                                                        2001;
                                                                                       21st to 23rd
                                                                                       May, 2001
                                                                                       28th to 30th
                                                                                       May, 2001
                                                                                       (9
                                                                                       days)MAS
                                                                                       AF
6     Defensive          2            MU (2)                                            11th to
      Driving Course                                                                    13th June,
                                                                                        2001 (3
                                                                                        days)
                                                                                       National
                                                                                       Roads
                                                                                       Safety
                                                                                       Council
                                                                                       (NRSC)
7     Price Data Bank    51           MU (4)                                19 ZMs, 28  9th to 16th
      on Sub-Project                                                        TSs         July,
      Cost Estimation                                                                   2001Millen
                                                                                        ium
                                                                                        Consultants



                                             - 99 -

8   Internal            1      MU (1)                         16th to
    Auditing Course                                           17th
                                                              August,
                                                              2001 (2
                                                              days)
                                                             Society of
                                                             Accountant
                                                             s in Malawi
                                                             (SOCAM)
9   Aspects of the      1      MU (1)                         1st
    Employment                                                September,
    Act of Malawi                                             2001 (1
                                                              day)Emplo
                                                              yers
                                                              Consultativ
                                                              e
                                                              Association
                                                              of Malawi
                                                              (ECAM)
10  AIDS in the         1      MU (1)                         17th
    Workplace                                                 December,
                                                              2001 (1
                                                              day)
                                                             ECAM
11  Orientation on      25     MU (6)             ZMs (19)    8th to 10th
    Human Rights                                              November,
    Based Approach                                            2001UNIC
    to Programming                                            EF
12  Orientation of      136                                   Counci-llor
    Councillors in                                            s
    PWP activities                                            (136)Dece
    (District                                                 mber,
    Assemblies)                                               2001MAS
                                                              AF
13  Development         9      MU (4)                         February,
    Leadership                 Govern-ment (5)                2002 (14
    Course                                                    days)Unive
                                                              rsity of
                                                              Zimbabwe/
                                                              Institute for
                                                              Developme
                                                              nt Studies
                                                              (Sussex)
14  Industrial          2      MU(2)                          2nd May,
    Relations course                                          2002 (1
                                                              day)ECAM
15  Mainstreaming       29     MU (10)            ZMs (19)    3rd to 7th
    HIV/AIDS and                                              June, 2002
    nutrition issues                                         (5
    into MASAF                                               days)MAS
    Activities                                               AF/
                                                             UNICEF
16  Justification       5                         ZM (1)      16th to
    Training for                                  AA (1)      17th May,
    Karonga Zone                                  TSs (2)     2002MAS
    Staff                                         OA (1)      AF
17  Justification       24                        ZAAs (24)   10th to
    Training for                                              12th July,
    ZAAs                                                      2002MIM



                                    - 100 -

18  Justification      13     2 AAs                  AAs (11)   29th July to
    Course                                                      1st August,
                                                                2002MIM
19  Environment        26     8 Directors & Heads    ZMs 18     13th to
    Mainstreaming                                               17th
    Workshop                                                    August,
                                                                2002Living
                                                                stonia
                                                                Beach
20  Receptionists/T    1      1 Receptionist                    25th Nov.
    elephone                                                    to 6th Dec.
    Operators                                                   2002Multi
    Course                                                      Country
21  Stores             1      1 AA                              11th to
    Management                                                  22nd
                                                                November,
                                                                2002 (12
                                                                days)Centr
                                                                al
                                                                Governmen
                                                                t Stores
22  Leadership         1      MU(1)                             2nd to 11th
    Development                                                 February,
    Workshop                                                    2003 (10
                                                                days)+Baki
                                                                li Muluzi
                                                                Institute for
                                                                Social and
                                                                Economic
                                                                Transforma
                                                                tion
23  Strategic          1      1 (MU)                            May 2003
    Management                                                  to
    Training (MBA)                                              November,
                                                                2004MIM
24  Justification      3      -                      3          --5th to 6th
    Training for                                                May
    Chikwawa and                                                2003MAS
    Luchenza Zones                                              AF
25  HIV/AIDS at        116    MU and Zones (116)                May
    the Work place                                              2003Projec
                                                                t Hope
26  Leadership         5      3 (MU)                            23rd May,
    Challenge                 2 (Govt)                          2003MAS
    Course                                                      AF
27  Motor Cycle        3      MU (3)                            4th ­Sept
    Riding Course                                               2003Nation
                                                                al Roads
                                                                Safety
                                                                Council
                                                                (NRSC)
28  Video Training     1      1                                 15th to
                                                                29th
                                                                September,
                                                                2003Chanc
                                                                ellor
                                                                College
   TOTAL               559    193                    174        192




                                    - 101 -

Table 2

WORKSHOP/TRAINING (EXTERNAL) (August 2001 ­ October 2003)

   Activity              No of                    No. of Participants by        How Often    By Whom
                         Participants           Geographical Distribution

                                       National                                 Zonal        DistrictPMC
1   Internal Audit       1             MU (1)                                                20th August
    Training                                                                                 to 14th
    (Tanzania)                                                                               September,
                                                                                             2001 (26
                                                                                             days)ESAMI
2   Study tour to        4             Minister Government Officials, MU (4)                 14th to 27th
    Thailand Social                                                                          October,
    Fund                                                                                     2001 (14
    (Thailand)                                                                               days)
                                                                                             MASAF
3   Treasury             1            MU (1)                                                 12th to 23rd
    Management                                                                               November,
    (Tanzania)                                                                               2001 (12
                                                                                             days)
                                                                                             ESAMI
4   Protecting the       3            MU (2)
    Vulnerable
    (Washington)
    Protecting the       3            MU (3)                                                 1st to 12th
    Vulnerable                                                                               December
    (Washington)                                                                             2002 (12
                                                                                             days)
                                                                                             World Bank
    Protecting the       3            MU (2)                                   ZM (1)        26th
    Vulnerable                                                                               November to
    (Washington)                                                                             7th
                                                                                             December,
                                                                                             2001 (12
                                                                                             days)
                                                                                             World Bank
5   Ethio-Forum (2002)   2            MU (2)                                                 13th to 20th
    (Ethiopia)                                                                               January,
                                                                                             2002 (8 days)
                                                                                             ASIFNET
6   Communication        2            MU (2)                                                 17th to 31st
    Development                                                                              March, 2002
    Internership                                                                             (15
    (Zimbabwe)                                                                               days)SADC
7   Community            2            MU (2)                                                 9th to 22nd
    Development                                                                              April, 2002
    Course                                                                                   (14
    (Washington)                                                                             days)World
                                                                                             Bank
8   Knowledge            2            MU (2)                                                 18th to 27th
    Management course                                                                        May,
    (Washington USA)                                                                         2002World
                                                                                             Bank
9   Study Visit to       1            MU (1)                                                 27th April to
    World Bank Office                                                                        13th May,
    (Washington)                                                                             2002 (17
                                                                                             days)World
                                                                                             Bank
10  Regional Seminar     3            MU (1)                                   ZMs (2)       18th to 27th
    for Labour-based                                                                         May, 2002
    practitioners                                                                            (10 days)ILO
    (Maputo-Mozambiq
    ue)




                                                - 102 -

11 Community-driven        5    MU (1)            ZMs (4)     6th to 10th
   Development                                                May, 2002
   Workshop                                                  (5 days)World
   (Lusaka-Zambia)                                           Bank
12 Senior Management       1    MU (1)                        13th to 25th
   Development                                                May,
   Programme                                                  2001ESAMI
   (Zanzibar)
13 Assuring the quality    2    MU (2)                        18th to 29th
   of Bank Operations                                         May, 2002
   in Africa                                                  (12
   (Washington)                                               days)World
                                                              Bank
14 Advanced Auditors       2    MU (2)
   Course (Durban ­                                           27th May to
   South Africa                                               14th June,
                                                              2002 (20
                                                              days)
                                                             ESAMI
15 Audit for Internal      2    MU (2)                        19th August
   Auditors Course                                            to 13th
   (Uganda)                                                   September,
                                                              2002 (28
                                                              days)
                                                             ESAMI
16 Financial               1    MU (1)                        25th August
   Management of                                              to 1st
   Donor Funded                                               September,
   Projects                                                   2002 (28
   (Harare-Zimbabwe)                                          days)ESAMI
17 FAO/SADC                1    MU (1)                        8th to 11th
   Workshop                                                   September,
   Zimbabwe                                                   2002
                                                             FAO/SADC
18 Regional                1    MU (1)                        8th to 18th
   Conference of the                                          September,
   Europe and Central                                         2002 (8
   Asia Regional                                              days)ECANE
   Network of Social                                          T
   Funds (ECANET)
   (Russia)
19 Prevention, analysis    1    MU (1)                        6th to 26th
   and detection of                                           October,
   corporate fraud                                            2002 (21
   course (Uganda)                                            days)ESAMI
20 Management              2    MU (1)            AA (1)      26th October
   Development                                                to 16th
   Programme for                                              November,
   Executive Assistants                                       2002 (28
   (Durban- South                                             days)ESAMI
   Africa)
21 Community               1    MU (1)                        17th Nov. to
   Management in                                              7th
   Water Supply and                                           December,
   Sanitation Course                                          2002 (21
   (Nairobi) Kenya                                            days)Networ
                                                              k for Water
                                                              and
                                                              Sanitation
                                                              International
                                                              (NETWAS)
22 Sun Accounting          5    MU (5)                        8th to 24th
   System Course                                              December,
   (Johannesburg,                                             2002 (17
   South Africa)                                              days)Advanc
                                                              e Net (PTY)
                                                              Limited
23 Financial               1    MU (1)                        2nd to 13th
   Management and                                             January,




                                       - 103 -

   Disbursement                                          2003 (12
   Procedures Course                                     days)World
   for World Bank                                        Bank
   Aided Projects
   (India)
24 Sun Accounting         3    MU (3)                    13th to 24th
   System Course                                         January,
   (Johannesburg,                                        2003 (14
   South Africa)                                         days)Advanc
                                                         e Net (PTY)
                                                         Limited
25 Information            1    MU (1)                    2nd to 15th
   Technology Course                                     February,
   (Durban ­ South                                       2003n (14
   Africa)                                               days)CS
                                                         Holding
26 Sun Accounting         3    MU (3)                    6th to 19th
   System Course                                         April, 2003
   (Johannesburg,                                        (14
   South Africa)                                         days)Advanc
                                                         e Net (PTY)
                                                         Limited
27 Internal Audit and     2    MU (2)                    6th to 26th
   Computer Auditing                                     April, 2003
   course (Mbabane ­                                     (21 days)DTI
   Swaziland)
28 Management             3    MU (2)            1 AA    21st April to
   Development                                           17th May,
   Programme for                                         2003 (28
   Executive Assistants                                  days)ESAMI
   (Mbabane-
   Swaziland)
29 Records                1    MU (1)                    27th April to
   Management                                            24th May,
   Course (Arusha ­                                      2003 (28
   Tanzania)                                             days)ESAMI
30 Human Resources        1    MU (1)            -       -19th May to
   Management course                                     13th June
   (Arusha, Tanzania)                                    2003 (28
                                                         days)ESAMI
31 Management             1    MU (1)            -       -26th May to
   Development                                           20th June
   Programme for                                         2003 (28
   Executive Assistants                                  days)ESAMI
   (Mombasa, Kenya)
32 Electronic Records     1    MU (1)                    1st to 28th
   Management                                            June,
   Course (Mbabane,                                      2003DTI
   Swaziland)
33 Human Resources        1    MU (1)                    3rd to 30th
   Management and                                        August,
   Performance                                           2003IDCA
   Enhancement
   (Mbabane,
   Swaziland)
34 Audit for Internal     1    MU (1)            -       -17th August
   Auditors Course                                       to 13
   (Nairobi, Kenya)                                      September
                                                         (28
                                                         September)
                                                         ESAMI
35 Financial              1    MU (1)                    24 August to
   Management                                            20
   Course (Harare,                                       September,
   Zimbabwe)                                             2003 (28
                                                         days)ESAMI
36 Management             2    MU (2)                    24 August to
   Development                                           20
   Course for                                            September,




                                      - 104 -

      Executive Assistants                                                                      2003 (28
      (Mbabane,                                                                                 days)ESAMI
      Swaziland)
37    Financial                  1            MU (1)                                            15th
      Management                                                                                September,
      Course (ACCA)                                                                             2003 to May
                                                                                                2004Thames
                                                                                                Valley
                                                                                                University
                                                                                                (UK)
38    Fiduciary                  5            MU (3) Govt (2)                                   28th
      Management in                                                                             September to
      Community Driven                                                                          4th October,
      Development                                                                               2002 (7
      Projects Workshop                                                                         days)World
      (Kampala, Uganda)                                                                         Bank
39    Goods and                  1            MU (1)                                            3rd to 26th
      Equipment                                                                                 October,
      Procurement Course                                                                        2003 (24
      (Accra, Ghana)                                                                            days)
                                                                                               Ghana Institute
                                                                                               of Management
                                                                                               and Public
                                                                                               Admin.
40    Advanced                   1            MU (1)                                            5th October
      Management                                                                                to 1st
      Course (Mbabane,                                                                          November,
      Swaziland)                                                                                2003DTI
41    Dairy Cattle               21                                               1             23rd
      Management(Excha                                                                          November,
      nge Visit)                                                                                2003Kenya
                                                                                                Productivity
                                                                                                Institute
     TOTAL                       96           66                                  10            515




                                                                                               ANNEX V
                         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
                                                 AT APPRAISAL
CATEGORY                                         PROCUREMENT METHOD
                          ICB           NCB        Community        Other           NBF        Total
                                                  Participation
1. Community              0.00          0.00           44.60         3.0            6.69      54.36
Subprojects                                           (42.42)       (3.0)                     (45.42)
2. Works-PWP              0.00          0.00           12.78        0.68            0.06      13.51
                                                      (12.14)       (0.66)                    (12.80)
3. Sponsored              0.00          0.00           0.43         0.13            0.00       0.56
Subprojects                                           (0.41)        (0.12)                    (0.53)
4. Equipment,             0.00          0.04           0.00         0.03            0.00       0.43
Furniture and                           (0.04)                      (0.03)                    (0.43)
Supplies
5. Consultants,           0.00          0.00           0.00         4.18            0.00       4.18
Training and                                                        (4.14)                    (4.14)
Workshops
6. Incremental            0.00          0.00           0.00         2.68            0.43       3.11
Operating                                                           (2.68)                    (2.68)
costs



                                                       - 105 -

Total               0.00            0.04           57.87           10.69           7.17     76.14
IDA                                (0.04)         (54.97)         (10.62)                   (66.00)

Notes:    Numbers in parenthesis refer to the amount financed by International Development
          Association.

                   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
                                                 ACTUAL
CATEGORY                                       PROCUREMENT METHOD
                    ICB            NCB          Community          Other          NBF        Total
                                               Participation
1. Community        0.00            0.00           42.48            0.00           8.50     50.98
Subprojects                                        40.36                                    (40.36)
2. Works-PWP        0.00            0.00           13.98            0.00           0.00     13.98
                                                  (13.28)                                   (13.28
3. Sponsored        0.00            0.00            3.52            0.00           0.70      4.22
Subprojects                                       (3.34)                                    (3.34)
4. Equipment,       0.33            0.04            0.00            0.25           0.00      0.62
Furniture and      (0.33)          (0.03)                          (0.20)                    (0.56
Supplies
5. Consultants,     0.00            0.00            0.00            3.46           0.00      3.46
Training and                                                       (3.46)                   (3.46)
Workshops
6. Incremental      0.00            0.00            0.00            4.07           0.00      4.07
Operating                                                          (3.46)                   (3.46)
costs
Total               0.33            0.04           59.98            7.78           9.20     77.33
IDA                (0.33)          (0.03)         (56.98)          (7.12)                   (66.46)

Notes:    Numbers in parenthesis refer to the amount financed by International
         Development Association. Financing arrangements combined
         Equipment as part of Incremental Costs.




                                                   - 106 -

- 107 -

