Report No. PID9402
Project Name                     Malawi-Second Malawi Social Action Fund...
(MASAF II)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social Sector
Project ID                       MWPE49599
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Malawi.
Implementing Agencies            Malawi Social Action Fund--Management Unit,
National
Economic Council, Ministries Education,
Health, Water, Works, Women, Youth and
Community Services,
Local Government, Agriculture and Irrigation,
Forestry and Natural Resources.
Date of this PID                 August 4, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June, 1998
Project Board Date               October 15, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Ranked on the basis of Gross National Product (GNP) per capita, Malawi
(US$140 in 1994) is the ninth poorest country in the world. Ninety percent
of its population lives in rural areas and depends mainly on subsistence
agriculture for its livelihood. Of total arable land, 40 percent is held in
the estate sector which mostly produces export crops, mainly tobacco, sugar,
tea and coffee. The remaining area is shared by 1.8 million smallholder
households. More than 40 percent of these cultivate less than 0.5 hectares.
Land constraint in the smallholder sector is daunting and is a major factor
in rural poverty. In addition to having a poor resource base, with
agriculture being the mainstay, Malawi's average population density of 106
persons per km is one of the highest in Africa.
2.      Since it attained independence in 1964, Malawi emphasized maintaining
macroeconomic stability and growth of infrastructure and estate agriculture
as the main elements of its development strategy. Poverty was to be dealt
with by trickle-down effects. This strategy proved effective initially
in promoting growth and macroeconomic stability, but did very little to
reduce poverty. During the 1960s and 1970s, the real Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) more than doubled and per capita income increased by 3 percent a year.
However, since structural weaknesses persisted and the economic base remained
narrow--tobacco continued to be the dominating produce, accounting for 70
percent of foreign exchange earnings--the economy remained highly vulnerable
to external and internal shocks. Much of the growth momentum was lost in the
mid-1980s when a series of destabilizing factors came into play. The problem
began with declining tobacco prices in the international market, and civil
strife in Mozambique, which increased international transport costs and
brought large refugee and security-related expenditures. The drought of 1992
caused the economy to contract by 8 percent, reducing the smallholder output



by 37.4 percent. This was followed by another drought in 1994 when the
economy contracted by 12 percent and the production of maize, the main staple
food, fell by about 50 percent. Government expenditures continued to rise,
adding to the instability. These factors created serious macroeconomic
instability and brought to the fore inherent structural weaknesses of the
economy, shown by the sharp depreciation of the exchange rate, high inflation
(35 percent in 1994), widespread poverty and food insecurity.
3.      Against this background, stabilization and poverty reduction have
emerged as central objectives of economic management. These are also the
objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Malawi.
Strengthening the nexus between growth and poverty reduction is the main
emphasis of the strategy. Poverty-targeted investment and development of
human resources, together with programs of macroeconomic stabilization,
fiscal restructuring and deregulation, private sector-led growth,
particularly in agriculture, and capacity building and decentralization, are
important elements of the strategy. The new Government (GOM) showed a strong
commitment towards these objectives during its first two years in office. It
adopted firm remedial measures and the macroeconomic situation, though still
fragile, improved. The introduction of cash budgeting and measures to track
public expenditure, such as the Medium Term Expenditure Framework as
instruments to improve expenditure control, have contributed to lowering
public expenditures significantly. New revenue measures and improved
monetary management have further contributed towards fiscal balance. While
fiscal and monetary restraints have succeeded in reducing the rate of
inflation and stabilizing the exchange rate, the sustainability of the
adjustment process and economic growth will depend on continued efforts
toward restructuring incentives to: spur growth in output and export, limit
vulnerability to external shocks, increase private sector investment, control
runaway population growth, develop human resources, and adopt effective
strategies to translate economic growth into poverty reduction. The
establishment of the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF), under the oversight
of the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD), was an important
step towards achieving these objectives.
4.      Poverty in Malawi.   Poverty in Malawi is pervasive and manifests itself
in several ways. The country has low average incomes which are distributed
highly unequally; the poorest of society face acute deprivation. A Poverty
Profile completed as part of MASAF I preparation established that the Gini
coefficient for Malawi is 0.62, the highest for any African country with
available data. For the poorest 20 percent of households even the most basic
food needs are not fully met and are generally so pressing that families are
at an irreducible minimum of non-food consumption. The indicators of social
sector development are similarly unfavorable for the nation as a whole and
worse for the poor. Infant mortality rate (134 per 1,000 live births), child
malnutrition, stunting and wasting (48.7w and 5.4%), maternal mortality (620
per 100,000 births) and prevalence of disease including the spread of Human
Immuno-Deficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome are very high
compared even to other Sub- Saharan countries.
5.      There is a significant rural-urban, geographical, and gender bias in
the incidence of poverty in the country. Ninety-five per cent of the total
Malawian poverty gap is found in rural areas. Most of the poor, and nearly
all the core poor are among the smallholder households. Even among the poor
households, inequality is significant. The bottom half of the smallholder
- 2 -



households receive only 15 percent of the income, while the top 10 percent
receive 35 percent. Regional variation of poverty is equally significant.
The Southern Region which is most populous and accounts for 51 percent of
total households in the country, has a higher share of poor households (66
percent). Some of the pockets of most severe poverty and highest densities
of the poor are found along the Mozambique border. Poverty differential by
gender is similarly significant. Female-headed households (FHHs) have
generally less income and a higher dependency ratio. Male-headed households
constitute 75 percent of all households in the country. Yet the chance of a
male-headed household being among the poorest 40 percent is only one in three
while that of a FHH being in this group is one in two. Rural female-headed
households also account for a much larger share in the national poverty gap
than their representation in the total population.
6.      Household Food Insecurity.   Looking at the sectoral dimensions of
poverty, one finds that food insecurity is a pressing problem for the poor.
Most smallholder households run out of food nearly four months before the
next harvest. Labor demand in rural areas is minimal, and farm income is the
mainstay of the poor. Yet constraints to smallholder productivity continue,
perpetuating poverty and hunger. The small size of holdings and restrictive
land laws which prevent pooling, poor quality of land exacerbated by
continued soil erosion, a conspicuous lack of irrigation making agriculture
vulnerable to the low and unreliable rainfall in the country, lack of
agricultural equipment and limited credit availability that prevents adoption
of improved seeds and fertilizers--all these have kept yields very low and
farm outputs insufficient for basic food needs of the poor. For many people
in rural areas, coping mechanisms include partial hunger.
7.      The level of off-farm rural incomes has been falling due to declining
real wages and slow growth in labor demand. The minimum wage, a good proxy
for market wage in rural areas, has declined consistently in real terms. The
demand for ganyu (casual labor) is growing much slower than the rate of
population growth. A long run food security strategy for Malawi would
require improving both smallholder productivity and labor demand in rural
areas. In the short- and medium-terms, this would call for an effective and
well targeted safety net to mitigate seasonal and chronic poverty, while at
the same time contributing to long-term development goals.
8.      The First Malawi Social Action Fund Project was designed and is being
implemented under the Poverty Alleviation Policy Framework. The policy
incorporates various strands of development initiatives to provide a coherent
basis for poverty alleviation in the country. In the past two years there
has been an increased allocation of financial resources in the Public Sector
Investment Program (PSIP) to the social sectors. For instance, in the
1997/98 development program, the percentage share of development resources to
the social sector stands at about 64 percent with 26 percent going to
education, 23 percent health, 8 percent to water, and community development
respectively. This represents an increase of 21 percent over the 1993/94
allocation of 43 percent.
9.      A further analysis of the PSIP shows that within each sector the bulk
of the resources have been allocated to those projects that are rural in
nature and have a more positive impact on alleviating poverty. These include
projects in primary health care, primary education, rural water development
and women in development. Under the Poverty Alleviation Program (PAP) the
-3 -



task of alleviating poverty is seen as a shared responsibility of Government,
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), donors, private sector, and the
communities themselves. In particular, the PAP is designed in such a way
that the poor are able to participate in the identification, preparation, and
implementation of their own project. It is in this vein that the Government
is promoting a decentralized strategy for development. As a financing
facility, MASAF is one of the key instruments that Government has put in
place to promote community participation in national development activities.
10.     Health Population and Nutrition.   In general, the health status of most
Malawians is poor and is worsening. The Social and health indicators for
Malawi continue to be low: life expectancy is 44/45 years; 50 percent of
children are about two standard deviations below expected height for age; the
leading diseases; malaria, respiratory infections, and abdominal and
gastrointestinal tract disorders, have not been contained. Acute infections
(pneumonia and measles), cholera, diarrhea, and chronic infections
(especially tuberculosis) continue to be serious problems, while sexually-
transmitted diseases and Acquired Immune-Deficiency Syndrome are spreading
rapidly.
11.     High levels of morbidity and mortality among infants, children and
mothers are the result of poor nutritional status, food insecurity, high
prevalence of preventable diseases, poor hygiene and sanitation, low access
to health and social services, and high illiteracy and fertility rates.
These are manifestations of the poverty condition of Malawi--more widespread
and deeper in rural areas than in urban areas. The mismatch, in the past,
between the emphasis on curative, high technology urban-based service
provision and the predominant disease pattern characterized by preventable
(low cost), infectious, communicable and nutrition-related diseases
exacerbated the situation. In the health sector, levels of morbidity and
mortality are still high. Infant mortality rate stands at 133/1000 as at 1995
under-five mortality rate is 234/1000 and maternal mortality rate is at
620/100,000. These deaths are mostly caused by preventable diseases. To
mitigate the situation, the sector will require interventions in primary
health care including construction of rural health facilities among other
activities. Ongoing efforts under the IDA-assisted Population, Health and
Nutrition (PHN) Sector Credit have focused health policy and resource
allocation in favor of low cost, effective, preventive-promotive health
measures targeted at the rural and urban poor. The Ministry of Health and
Population's (MOHP) Health Policy Framework advocates, among other things,
targeting resources to priorities identified by the communities.
12.     Constraints faced by Malawi with respect to PHN continue to be related
to physical infrastructure, goods and services and human resources. The poor
distribution and location and lack of health centers, inadequate staff
housing, scarcity of potable water, and unavailability of drugs and other
support goods and services are constraints that deter health staff from the
periphery. Since the communities endure the burdens of these inadequacies,
the communities can well identify them--waiting mothers' shelters, health
centers, clinic dispensaries/maternity, staff housing, boreholes--as
priorities for funding from MASAF. Some activities which lend themselves to
immediate funding include: pit latrines, refuse disposal pits, clean water
supply or drug revolving funds. MOHP policy on facilities, staff deployment,
drug supplies and commodities, and standard designs will need to be
sufficiently flexible to allow facilities to be constructed and drugs to be
- 4 -



procured and sold by communities.
13.     Education.   In the primary education sub-sector, about 38,000
additional classrooms are required. Currently, IDA, USAID, ODA, ADF, KFW and
EU are funding construction of primary schools in various parts of the
country. In spite of these efforts, there is still a gap of over 30,000
classrooms. In addition to these, there is a severe shortage of learning
materials, including books, in all the schools. Most of the teachers are
unqualified with no professional support. The quality of the education is
low with high dropout rates. It is estimated that with a repetition rate of
above 20 percent, and with only 19 percent of a cohort completing the primary
school cycle within the allotted time (190-81 intake) it normally takes a
primary school pupil 15 years to complete the 8-year primary course.
14.     Water.  Notwithstanding the abundant water resources in Malawi, only 37
percent of the population are within the recommended norm of 0.5 km from the
water source. When the distance is increased to 1 km, 48 percent have access
to safe water. The national gap for portable water supply using ground water
sources is estimated at 16,400 new boreholes, and 5,000 that require
rehabilitation. Presently there are 9,700 boreholes in operation. Similarly
only 5.5 percent of Malawian population have access to adequate sanitary
facilities located within a convenient distance of dwellings. Nearly 30
percent of the population is without any sanitary facilities.
15.     Infrastructure.    In the infrastructure sector the existing total road
network is approximately 15,000 km of which 32 percent constitute the feeder
roads system. The main challenge for the Government at present is the
inadequate financial resources to meet all the requirements for road
maintenance especially for the primary road network, let alone for the feeder
road system. This situation therefore necessitates that communities or the
local level structures should participate in the development of new roads and
maintenance of the feeder road network. Therefore improvements in the
infrastructure will enable the communities to access social-economic
facilities
Sector Strategy
16.     The Malawi government is committed to poverty reduction as its central
issue. In August 1994, the government launched the Poverty Alleviation
program (PAP) and appointed a new Presidential Council on Poverty Alleviation
to oversee development of an implementing strategy. The Policy Framework for
Poverty Alleviation Program, the output of this process, was formally issued
by the President in 1995. A poverty profile, based on data from surveys in
the early 1990s, has been jointly developed by the Government and the Bank
(Malawi: Human Resources and Poverty, Profile and Priorities for Action). A
summary of this profile has been circulated widely in the country and
discussed in a Parliamentary seminar. Poverty was a core discussion topic at
the December 1995 Consultative Group meeting, which welcomed the
establishment of social and poverty indicators as a basis to measure
development effectiveness. Updated information on the poverty situation has
been compiled by GOM with the help of UNICEF, based on a 1995 survey of 6000
households. A Poverty Monitoring System is being established in the
National Economic Council (NEC) to coordinate collection and analysis of
poverty and social data on a national and geographical basis.
- 5 -



17.     The Government's poverty reduction strategy has two broad facets:    (a)
growth, which is widely shared, and (b) targeted interventions for the
poorest. The strategy recognizes that agriculture and the rural sector must
be a cornerstone of the near-term strategy. It also recognizes the fragile
balance in the country's ability to maintain fiscal stability, achieve growth
and implement programs for the poor.
Project Objectives
18.     The principal objectives of MASAF II is to continue to support the
government's poverty reduction strategy. The project will contribute to
poverty reduction by enhancing and sustaining the provision of and use of
resource endowments by beneficiary communities. The project aims over the
period 1999-2003 to start to address the need of socio-economic
infrastructure in rural and urban areas, create temporary employment through
a safety net programs for the very poor and/or vulnerable groups (orphans,
street children, the incapacitated, AIDS victims, the aged, etc.). The
project also intends to enhance in-country capacity to identify, prioritize
and implement projects by training of national, regional and district
agencies.
Project Description
19.     The four main components of the proposed MASAF II project are
summarized as follows:
(i)     Community Sub-Project: - This component would finance demand-
driven community based socio-economic infrastructure subprojects in rural and
urban areas. The choice of sub-projects menu will include, inter alia:
rehabilitation, extension, construction and equipment for sustainable basic
and secondary education; health facilities; rehabilitation and construction
of economic infrastructure such as markets, small scale water supply and
irrigation, storm drainage and sanitation, access roads and bridges and
natural resource management. Quality of construction is ensured by Technical
Supervisors hired by the Project MU to supervise all structures built under
MASAF. In addition, completion of health centers will be supervised by the
district medical staff assigned to the sub-project. To ensure sustainability
of sub-projects, MASAF will submit, on a quarterly basis, to the Ministry of
Education its budget plans providing details on number of schools that will
be built over this period and what would be the required recurrent
expenditures to maintain and operate these schools. In addition and in order
to assist the communities in maintaining the structures, MASAF will require
each beneficiary community to establish at the onset of each project a
Community Maintenance Committee (CMC) who will assume responsibility for the
upkeep of the buildings. The communities collect rents from teachers
occupying the houses built/rehabilitated by the project. Money collected
from rents accrues to the Community Maintenance Fund administered by the CMC.
(ii)    Public Works Program: - This component finances labor-intensive
works as a safety net scheme in targeted poor rural and urban areas. In so
doing, the works would create temporary employment which would generate cash
income to poor households. These works are selected from already identified
Government projects which include, inter alia: road rehabilitation and
maintenance, land husbandry and afforestation, water supply sanitation and
drainage schemes, and rainwater collection. Beneficiary participation is
- 6 -



fostered at all stages of the project.
(iii)   Sponsored Sub-Projects: - This component would finance
initiatives identified by sponsors on behalf of the most deprived groups such
as orphans, street children, the incapacitated, AIDS victims, the aged, etc.
These sub-projects are identified, prepared, implemented, managed and
maintained by the beneficiary groups with the assistance of sponsoring
agencies.
(iv)    Capacity Enhancement and Studies: - The objective of this
component is to strengthen the capacity of the Management Unit as well as
support capacity building of all other stakeholders to implement subprojects.
Specifically, it will finance training of national, regional and district
agencies in the use of procedures, systems and criteria jointly developed
with MASAF. In addition, the component is financing project relevant studies
including, inter alia: annual beneficiary assessments, impact assessments and
strategic studies to determine the future role of MASAF, using national
agencies including the National Economic Council's (NEC) Poverty Unit. It
would also facilitate learning from international experiences by MU and
Government policy makers.
Project Cost and Financing
20.     The proposed project is estimated to cost US$76.1 million of which
about 10t are in foreign exchange.   The local contribution is in the order of
US$10.1 million of which the major part is expected to come from community
contributions.
Project Implementation
21.     The project is to be implemented over a 4.5-year period commencing in
December 1, 1998 and ending in May 31, 2003. The MASAF Management Unit
constituted to manage MASAF I continues to manage this follow-up project.
The existing Operations Manual, as well as all manuals being utilized for
implementation of the on-going project, have been reviewed and updated in
order to reflect experiences gained during implementation of the first MASAF
project and to include the outcome of the functional review. A new manual to
cover activities to benefit the marginalized poor (under the SSP component)
has been developed.
Project Sustainability
22.     Key success factors for the sustainability of MASAF II include but are
not limited to: (i) enhanced capacity of beneficiary communities to
identify, prioritize, supervise, monitor, maintain and operate projects; and
(ii) increased women participation in community project committees,
especially in the decision making process. The project is expected to
enhance sustainability by addressing these factors in a coherent and
effective manner. In addition, it is intended that the MASAF Management Unit
and its field offices will be coterminous with the Project. The principles of
community contribution, procedures to involve communities in projects, and
criteria developed to support community initiatives will be retained. The
MASAF approach would be adopted in regular sectoral programs of the
Government. The skills learned by communities during the project in using
and accounting for funds, building, maintaining and rehabilitating
-7 -



infrastructure will be sustained by them. The transfer of skills to district
staff, especially in the appraisal, implementation and monitoring of projects
will help sustain the MASAF II processes and approach.
Lessons learned from past operations
23.     Experience gained from implementing the MASAF I and other projects in
Malawi indicate the persistence of a number of problems that impede effective
sector development namely: inadequate information flows and coordination
between key project implementers; inadequate training on the part of many key
project implementers; late disbursement of funds caused by the inability to
provide work justifications; and lack of government counter part budgetary
allocation. It is intended that, MASAF II will do an assessment of the above
problems; address them during negotiations; and would incorporate a solution
to these problems in the design of the Project Implementation Manual.
Poverty Reduction and Alleviation.
24.     The project will help reduce poverty by enhancing and sustaining the
provision of and use of resource endowment by beneficiary communities. The
project component dealing with public works program is financing labor-
intensive works as a safety net scheme in targeted poor rural and urban areas
and in so doing is creating temporary employment. Temporary employment will
increase rural and urban income and boost the rural economy. The sponsored
sub-projects would ease the burden on the most vulnerable groups such as
orphans, street children, the incapacitated, AIDS victims, and the aged etc.
SSP sub-projects would be identified, prepared, implemented, managed, and
maintained by beneficiary groups with the assistance of sponsoring agencies.
Environmental Aspects
25.     MASAF II is a Category B project.   An environmental screening, review
and assessment of potential environmental impacts of investments is an
integral part of the CSP throughout design, implementation, supervision and
monitoring. In addition, as part of the socio economic infrastructure
supported by the project, CSP is facilitating environmental institutional
capacity building to ensure awareness, enforcement and monitoring of
environmental standards and guidelines, as well as promote sub-projects aimed
at improving communities' management of their natural resources. The CSP
component is undertaking the following: (i) including environmental aspects
in appraisal and monitoring criteria for sub-projects, through use of
recently developed checklists; (ii) carrying out environmental assessment of
MASAF program; (iii) raising community awareness of environmental issues; and
(iv) financing natural resource-related projects such as afforestation,
irrigation, fisheries (in both CSP and PWP).
Contact point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
-8-



Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 11, 2000.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
Malawi: Human Resources and Poverty: Profile and Priorities for Action
World Bank, November 1995.
A simplified design for construction of health facilities under
the Project has been agreed to.
- 10 -



