Page  1
December 15, 1997
The Honourable Justin Malewezi
Vice President and Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Re:  Japanese Grant Agreement for the Second Malawi Social Action Fund 
Grant No. TF 025443
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the 
Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Malawi (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Barbara Kafka
Country Director for Malawi
Page  2
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By: H.E. Justin Malewezi
    Authorized Representative
Date: January 20, 1998
Page  3
Cleared with & bcc.
M. Salah, H. Dech, T. Arai
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient to prepare the Second Malawi Social Action 
Fund (MASAF) Project. The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
(a)
Analysis of Legal and Regulatory Framework
:
Carrying out a review and development of 
the necessary policy and regulatory framework to give communities clear property rights over the 
infrastructure created by the new project, and responsibility for operation and maintenance of such 
infrastructure.
(b)
Needs Assessment Using Beneficiary Assessment and Participatory Approaches
:
Carrying out an analysis of the results of the Beneficiary Assessment carried out under MASAF I and, 
as needed, performing other surveys to assess changing needs and emerging trends, preferences and 
attitudes to ensure a project design appropriate to the needs of poor communities.  The participatory 
approach surveys would be followed up with studies using contingency evaluation techniques to 
assess the demand and willingness to pay for services designed to address the needs identified in the 
Beneficiary Assessments.
(c)
Impact assessment
:
Carrying out an analysis of the socio-economic impact of MASAF’s 
interventions to be presented in the form of a descriptive and analytical assessment of MASAF I 
interventions and their effect on poverty alleviation.  The analysis will cover targeting issues to 
measure how well these interventions are targeted to different groups in the population, such as the 
food deficient, the poorest of the poor and women.
(d)
Review and Evaluation of the Ongoing Safety Net Programs
:
Carrying out a review of 
Page  4
safety net activities carried out in Malawi by various agencies including those under MASAF I and 
making recommendations on possible activities to be financed under MASAF II.
(e)
Review and Evaluation of the Ongoing Community Sub-Projects
:
The technical 
assistance would specifically: (i) assist in the establishment of a local technical core group to review 
other countries experiences and apply relevant lessons learnt to Malawi; (ii) review legal, financial 
and governance issues (including liability, accountability and auditing issues)  for setting up various 
institutions such as NGOs, semi-independent government departments, using existing ministries or 
agencies, etc. in Malawi; (iii) recommend options for the institutional framework for MASAF II ; and 
(iv) organize regional level workshops with key actors (Government, NGOs, donors, and private 
sector representatives) to agree on and recommend an institutional set-up, discuss and disseminate 
findings of the other preparatory activities.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct 
of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1998.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of 
Malawi on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
Page  5
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Malawi, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or any 
development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
