Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3136-MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Social Action Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 4, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3136-MAI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 4, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
the Association has received the Borrower’s Policy Framework for Poverty 
Alleviation Programme, dated October 1995, (hereinafter called the Program) declaring, 
inter alia, the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraph (13) through (15): “12.
‘Participating Country’ means any 
country that the Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 
of resolution No 183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawal 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payments 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by 
a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a community, including a village, group of villages, 
or a group of urban dwellers, duly represented by a Project Management Committee (as 
hereinafter defined), which is the recipient of a Community Subproject Grant (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“Community Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between MASAF and a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a Community Subproject 
(as hereinafter defined);  
(c)
“Community Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
MASAF to finance a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(d)
“Community Subproject” means a specific development project financed or 
to be financed through a Community Subproject Grant extended under Part A.1 of 
Project;
(e)
“District” means a district as defined in the Regional and Districts 
Boundaries and Place Names Act (Cap. 18:04 of the Laws of Malawi); 
(f)
“DSS” means a District Executive Committee Sub Set consisting of the 
District Development Officer, Clerk of Council and Sector Technical Supervisor; 
(g)
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 and ending on 
the following June 30; 
(h)
“IEC” means Information, Education, and Communication;  
(i)
“Project Manuals” means the Implementation, Administration, and 
Accounting Manuals for the implementation of all the components of the Project, dated 
July 31, 1998 and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
(j)
“MASAF Board” means the Malawi Social Action Fund Board established under 
OPC (as hereinafter defined) to provide policy oversight over the MASAF MU (as 
hereinafter defined) and referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(k)
“MASAF MU” means the Malawi Social Action Fund Management Unit 
established as of July 1, 1995, within OPC to carry out the Project;
(l)
“MIS” means management information system; 
Page  3
(m)
“MK” means Malawi Kwacha, the Borrower’s currency; 
(n)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(o)
“NEC” means the Borrower’s National Economic Council; 
(p)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization duly authorized to operate in 
the Borrower’s territory; 
(q)
“OPC” means the Borrower’s Office of the President and Cabinet; 
(r)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement;  
(s)
“Project Management Committee” means a committee established by a 
community to represent that community’s interests, as specified in the Project Manuals 
during the identification, preparation, appraisal, and implementation of a Community 
Subproject or a PWP Subproject (as hereinafter defined) and comprising a chairperson, 
a secretary, a treasurer, a deputy treasurer, and from three to five members, all duly 
elected by the members of the community; 
(t)
“Project Support Committee” means a committee established by a community 
to represent the community’s interests, as specified in the Project Manuals during the 
identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation of a Sponsored Subproject 
(as hereinafter defined);
(u)
“PWP Subproject” means specific construction, rehabilitation, or 
maintenance works identified by the DSS and to be financed under Part B.1 of the 
Project;  
(v)
“PWP Subproject Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered 
into between MASAF MU and a DSS for the purpose of carrying out a PWP Subproject; 
(w)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(x)
“Sponsored Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between MASAF MU and a Sponsoring Agency (as hereinafter defined) for the purpose of 
carrying out a Sponsored Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(y)
“Sponsored Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
MASAF MU to finance a Sponsored Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part C.1 of 
the Project; 
(z)
“Sponsored Subproject” means a specific activity identified by a 
Sponsoring Agency (as hereinafter defined) to be financed through a Sponsored 
Subproject Grant extended under Part C.1 of the Project; and 
(aa)
“Sponsoring Agency” means any NGO, Project Support Committee, or other 
institution engaged to implement activities under Part C.1 of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-nine million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary, a DSS or a 
Sponsoring Agency, under a Community Subproject Grant, a PWP Subproject Financing 
Page  4
Agreement or a Sponsored Subproject Grant, to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works, or services required for such Community, PWP or Sponsored Subproject and in 
respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 
commencing February 15, 2009, and ending August 15, 2038. Each installment, to and 
including the installment payable on August 15, 2018, shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  5
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Sates of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MASAF MU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and economic practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and  
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:  
(a)
open and maintain in a commercial bank, until the completion of the 
Project, an account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;  
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to the 
Borrower’s estimated share of counterpart funds for the first quarter of Project 
implementation as shall be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association and 
thereafter, at quarterly intervals, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as 
are estimated to be required for the ensuing quarter of such amount as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association; and  
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively for expenditures under 
the Project not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the Credit.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
Page  6
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
no later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and the initial contribution 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(b)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association, the signed Memorandum of 
Understanding referred in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
Page  7
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association, copies of the ministerial 
circulars referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower has confirmed that the MIS system referred to in paragraph 
14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement is operational. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE 44407 
MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Willie Chokani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Barbara Kafka
Page  8
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Community
  30,720,000
95% of amounts paid
Subprojects 
by MASAF MU
(2)
PWP Subprojects
   8,650,000
95% of amounts paid
by MASAF MU
(3)
Sponsored 
     380,000
95% of amounts paid
Subprojects
by MASAF MU
(4)
Equipment,
     300,000
100% of foreign
furniture
expenditures and
and supplies
90% of local
expenditures
(5)
Consultants’
   2,780,000
100% 
services, training 
workshops and 
studies 
(6)
Operating costs
   1,810,000
90% in
FY 1999/2000
and 85% thereafter
(7)
Unallocated
   4,960,000
  __________
  49,600,000
TOTAL
  ========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
The term “operating costs” means incremental recurrent expenditures 
incurred on account of the Project for MASAF MU contract staff remuneration, per diem, 
benefits, office supplies, fuel, and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of 
equipment, telephone, and other communications charges, office rent and insurance for 
vehicles, motorcycles and office equipment and furniture.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3) unless the Community 
Subproject Grants, the financing for PWP Subproject and Sponsored Subproject Grants 
have been made in accordance with the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions 
Page  9
set forth or referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7, and 9 through 12, of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, respectively. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure: 
(a)
for expenditures under contracts for works not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent each; 
(b)
for expenditures under contracts for goods and consultants’ services, 
provided by firms, not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each;  
(c)
for expenditures under contracts for consultants’ services provided by 
individuals, not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; and 
(d)
for expenditures for training, workshops, and incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance and sustain the provision and use 
of resource endowments by Beneficiaries, which will contribute to poverty reduction 
through: (i) addressing the need for socio-economic infrastructure development in 
rural and urban areas; (ii) supporting safety-net programs: and  (iii) enhancing the 
Borrower’s capacity to identify, prioritize and implement projects by training 
stakeholders at national, regional, district and community levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Subprojects 
1.
Promotion, identification, design, appraisal, implementation, supervision and 
evaluation of community based socio-economic infrastructure Community Subprojects and 
provision of Community Subproject Grants for the financing thereof, for the 
rehabilitation, extension, construction and equipment for sustainable basic and post 
basic education, health facilities, construction and rehabilitation of economic 
infrastructure, including markets, small scale water supply, storm drainage and 
sanitation, access roads, bridges and natural resource management. 
2.
Dissemination of the objectives and working principles of MASAF through the 
carrying out of sensitization, and IEC activities.
Part B:
Public Works Program 
1.
Carrying out PWP Subprojects consisting of labor-intensive works as a safety-net 
scheme in targeted poor rural and urban areas, including road rehabilitation and 
maintenance, land husbandry and afforestation, water supply and sanitation and 
drainage schemes and rainwater collection and provision of financing therefor. 
2.
Carrying out IEC activities about the program including the production of 
flyers, posters, radio programs, videos and the use of drama groups.
Part C:
Sponsored Sub-Projects 
1.
Provision of Sponsored Subprojects Grants for Sponsored Subprojects identified 
by Sponsoring Agencies for street children, orphans, persons with disabilities, the 
aged and HIV/AIDS affected persons, for the construction and physical rehabilitation 
of facilities to be used by such persons and for the provision of services.  
2.
Carrying out IEC activities to sensitize and disseminate information about these 
sub-projects through the production of flyers, posters, and videos.
Page  10
Part D:
Capacity Enhancement and Studies 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the MASAF MU and national, regional and district 
agencies to implement the Community, PWP and Sponsored Subprojects, through the 
provision of training in the use of procedures, systems and criteria developed under 
MASAF. 
2.
Carrying out studies relevant to the objectives of the Project, including annual 
beneficiary assessments, impact assessments, and strategic and technical studies to 
determine the future role of MASAF.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of this Section I.  In 
paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank Member Countries” 
and “Member Country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country” 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $430,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping and IAPSO 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, or through the United Nations 
Inter-Agency Procurement Office.
3.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Parts A, B and C of the Project may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, and documented in the 
Project Manuals. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works for Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $44,600,000 
equivalent with respect to Part A of the Project and $12,800,000 equivalent with 
respect to Part B of the Project, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
Page  11
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more and the first contract for goods and works 
respectively, procured in accordance with National Competitive Bidding, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines) and (b) the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule. In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank Member Countries” and “Member Country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants under Part D of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Page  12
Services for consultants which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants, tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation
Services required to assist Beneficiaries or a DSS in carrying out Community, 
PWP and Sponsored Subprojects, may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, and specified in the Project Manuals.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
General
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the MASAF MU which shall be responsible 
for the implementation of the Project; and (ii) at all times maintain within MASAF MU 
staff, with qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
including an Executive Director, Directors of Field Operations for Community 
Subprojects and the Public Works Program, Directors for the Finance and Administration 
divisions, as well as, heads of Sponsored Subprojects, the Communication, Internal 
Page  13
Audit, Information Technology and Technical Services Units.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain the MASAF Board established on September 11, 
1998, to oversee the work of MU. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
MASAF Board shall, (i) be chaired by the Principal Secretary (Finance), OPC, and (ii) 
comprise the following members: Principal Secretaries of MOF, Ministry of Justice, 
National Economic Commission, Secretary for the Poverty Alleviation Program, and the 
Executive Secretary of the Council for Non Governmental Organizations in Malawi, 
representatives of the traditional authorities, the Director for the Center for Social 
Research, and Secretary for District and Local Government Administration and two 
members with expertise in urban planning and management and the private sector, 
respectively.
(c)
The MASAF Board shall, on behalf of the Borrower: (i) provide overall 
policy guidance on the management of the Project, (ii) give the MASAF MU directives 
and guidance on the interpretation of the Borrower’s policies pertaining to those 
sectors affected by the Project, (iii) approve MASAF MU’s annual work plans, (iv) 
review quarterly and annual reports and semi-annual and annual audits; and (v) review 
as part of the impact and sustainability assessments of the Project, whether adequate 
budgetary allocations have been made to the various ministries of the Borrower 
involved in the implementation of the various components of the Project to cover the 
anticipated recurrent expenditures required for the carrying out of Project 
activities.
2.
MASAF MU shall: (a) (i) maintain the Project Manuals for the implementation of 
all components of the Project, (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project is carried out in conformity with the Project Manuals, and (iii) not amend or 
waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially 
or adversely affect the implementation of the Project; (b) prepare the annual 
workplans for approval by the MASAF Board. 
3.
MASAF MU shall enter into a memorandum of understanding acceptable to the 
Association, with the Ministry Works and Supplies, Department of District and Local 
Government Administration and National Roads Authority to formalize their respective 
roles in the implementation of PWP Subprojects relating to roads.
4.
The Borrower shall designate Desk Officers in its Ministries and Departments, 
who shall be assigned to work with MASAF MU and to carry out the following activities: 
(a) provide information to MASAF MU on sectoral gaps, policies and norms; (b) provide 
feedback on issues arising from the implementation of the subprojects; (c) obtain 
approval of subprojects inclusion under the project; and (d) monitor whether sectoral 
recurrent budgets cover assets created under the Project. Such designation shall be 
formalized by the issuance of ministerial circulars by the relevant Principal 
Secretary.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September of each year for the annual reviews, 
September 30, 2000 with respect to the mid-term review, an annual progress report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
various components of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
based on the work plan for the period under review and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November of each year for the annual 
reviews and November 30, 2000 with respect to the mid-term review, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
Page  14
Part A of the Project 
6.
Eligibility Criteria for Community Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no Community 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless 
the Executive Director of the MASAF MU shall have determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project 
Manuals, that the Community Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in 
more detail in the Project Manuals, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Community Subproject shall be for social and economic infrastructure 
and services, including primary health, basic education, rural water supply, feeder 
roads, and the construction of markets and granaries;
(b)
the Community Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary duly 
represented by a Project Management Committee;
(c)
the Community Subproject shall be economically, financially and 
technically viable in accordance with the standards specified in the Project Manuals;
(d)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary shall 
provide not less than 20% of the estimated costs of the Community Subprojects in the 
form of cash, materials, labor or other services and not less than 5% of the estimated 
costs of Community Subprojects for boreholes; and
(e)
the Community Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection. 
7.
Terms and Conditions of Community Subprojects Grants
In financing Community Subprojects, MASAF MU shall enter into a Community 
Subproject Agreement with the Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall 
include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 per Community Subproject Grant;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Community Subproject in accordance with 
the Project Manuals, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Community Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Community Subproject;
(d)
the right of MASAF MU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Community Subproject, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of MASAF MU to obtain all information as MASAF MU or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of MASAF MU to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Community Subproject upon the 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Community 
Subproject Agreement. 
8.
In order to assist communities to expeditiously implement Community Subprojects, 
the MASAF MU shall maintain a unit cost data bank for monitoring the cost of 
Page  15
materials, goods, works and services, and update such data  on a quarterly or 
semiannual basis.  
Part B of the Project 
9.
Eligibility Criteria for PWP Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no PWP Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Executive 
Director of the MASAF MU shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted 
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Manuals, that the PWP 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the Project 
Manuals, which shall include the following: (a)
the nature and size of the PWP 
Subproject is such that it cannot be carried out by the relevant community on a 
self-help basis; (b)
the unskilled labor content of the PWP Subproject is not 
less than 40% of the total cost thereof; and (c)
implementation of the PWP 
Subproject will not require highly specialized technical inputs and procedures and can 
be started expeditiously.  
10.
Terms and conditions of financing for PWP Subprojects
In financing PWP Subprojects, MASAF MU shall enter into a PWP Subproject 
Financing Agreement with a DSS, under terms and conditions which shall include the 
following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000 per PWP Subproject;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the PWP Subproject in accordance with the 
Project Manuals, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the PWP Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods works, and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the PWP Subproject;
(d)
the right of MASAF MU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites and 
construction included in PWP Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents; (e) the right of MASAF MU to obtain all information as MASAF MU 
or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation 
and financial conditions of the PWP Subproject; and (f)
the right of MASAF MU to 
suspend or terminate the right of a DSS to use the proceeds of the Credit for the PWP 
Subproject upon the failure by the DSS to perform any of its obligations under the PWP 
Subproject Financing Agreement. 
Part C of the Project 
11.
Eligibility Criteria for Sponsored Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no Sponsored 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless 
the Executive Director of MASAF MU shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Manuals, that the 
Sponsored Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in 
the Project Manuals, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Sponsored Subproject shall be for activities to improve the quality 
of life of street children, orphans, persons with disabilities, the aged and HIV/AIDS 
affected persons;
(b)
the Sponsored Subproject shall be initiated by a Sponsoring Agency;
(c)
the Sponsored Subproject shall be economically, financially and 
Page  16
technically viable in accordance with the standards specified in the Project Manuals;
(d)
the Sponsoring Agency shall provide no less than 20% of the estimated 
costs of the Sponsored Subproject in the form of cash, materials, labor or other 
services in the case of infrastructure activities; and
(e)
the Sponsored Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection. 
12.
Terms and Conditions of Sponsored Subprojects Grants
In financing Sponsored Subprojects, MASAF MU shall enter into a Sponsored 
Subproject Agreement with the Sponsoring Agency, under terms and conditions which 
shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000 per Sponsored Subproject Grant;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Sponsored Subproject in accordance with 
the Project Manuals, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Sponsored Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sponsored Subproject;
(d)
the right of MASAF MU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Sponsored Subproject, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of MASAF MU to obtain all information as MASAF MU or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Sponsored Subproject; and
(f)
the right of MASAF MU to suspend or terminate the right of the Sponsoring 
Agency to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Sponsored Subproject upon the failure 
by the Sponsoring Agency to perform any of its obligations under the Sponsored 
Subproject Agreement. 
Part D of the Project  
13.
The Borrower shall establish an MIS system, satisfactory to the Association, to 
monitor and report on a monthly basis both the physical progress and financial status 
of Community, PWP and Sponsored Subprojects and other activities under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
Page  17
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  18
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
Part A:
Community Subprojects  
Number of Community Subprojects requests received, approved, funded and completed by 
sector and geographic distribution 
Number of women in Project Management Committees 
Number of women trained in the Operations and Maintenance of water facilities 
Completion time of Community Subprojects 
Number of proposals received from the urban areas, approved, funded and completed  
Access to safe water sources – distance to the water point and time savings 
Part B:
Public Works Program  
Number of persons /months of employment created by gender under the urban and rural 
subprojects 
Labor intensity: percentage of unskilled labor cost to total project cost  
Number of projects approved, funded and completed by sector and geographic 
distribution  
Number of households benefiting from employment  
Total wage income transferred in US dollar equivalent  
Number of IEC messages by types, medium and coverage 
Part C:
Sponsored Subprojects  
Number of Sponsored Subproject requests received, approved, funded, and completed by 
sector and geographic distribution  
Number of Sponsoring Agencies applying for support  
Number of IEC messages by type, medium, and coverage  
Page  19
Category and number of beneficiaries covered 
Part D:
Capacity Enhancement  
Workshops/meeting/ studies/field visits by type of training provided and number and 
type of participants  
Number of people trained in project cycle management and basic bookkeeping  
Number of strategic and technical studies, beneficiary and impact assessments carried 
out and disseminated 
