Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17993 MAI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 49.6 MILLION
(US$66.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT
September 17, 1998
Human Development 1
Country Department 3
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(The Project was prepared using the Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
Mkl = US$0.0374
US$1 = Mk26.6973
SDR 1 = US$1.3349
NB: On September 17, 1998 after this Project was negotiated the Exchange Rate moved to
Mkl = US$0.0227
US$1 = Mk44.0000
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
(as of July 1998)
Vice President. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader: Norbert Mugwagwa



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AG                    =    Auditor General
BA                    =    Beneficiary Assessment
CAS                   =    Country Assistance Strategy
CBM                   =    Community Based Management
CES                   =    Capacity Enhancement and Studies
CONGOMA               =    Council for Non-Governmental Organizations in Malawi
CSP                   =    Community Subprojects
DDLGA                 =    Department of District and Local Government Administration
DFID                       Department for International Development
DHS                   =    Demographic and Health Survey
DRIMP                 =    District Roads Improvement Program
EPA                   =    Extension Planning Area
FHH                   =    Female-Headed Households
GDP                   =    Gross Domestic Product
GNP                   =    Gross National Product
ICB                   =    International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   =    International Development Association
IEC                   =    Information, Education and Communication
IHSP                       Integrated Household Survey on Poverty
M & E                 =    Monitoring and Evaluation
MASAF                 =    Malawi Social Action Fund
MASAF II                   Malawi Second Social Action Fund
MB                         MASAF Board
MOHP                  =    Ministry of Health and Population
MOW                   =    Ministry of Works
MTR                   =    Mid-Term Review
MU                    =    Management Unit of MASAF
NCB                   =   National Competitive Bidding
NEC                   =    National Economic Council
NGO                   =   Non-Governmental Organization
NSO                        National Statistical Organization
NSSA                  =    National Sample Survey of Agriculture
OPC                        Office of the President and Cabinet
PAP                        Poverty Alleviation Program
PCD                   =    Project Concept Document
PHN                   =    Population Health and Nutrition
PIM                   =    Project Implementation Manual
PMSF                  =    Poverty Monitoring Support Facility
PMU                   =    Poverty Monitoring Unit
PSIP                  =    Public Sector Investment Programme
SA                    =    Sponsoring Agency
SCC                   =    Systematic Client Consultation
SOE                   =    Statement of Expenditure
SSP                        Sponsored Subprojects
TWC                   =    Technical Working Committee
UNDP                  =    United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF                =    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                 =    United States Agency for International Development
VAMS                       Vulnerability Assessment Monitoring System
WFP                   =    World Food Program



Malawi
Second Social Action Fund Project (MASAF II)
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND
JUSTIFICATION ..........................................................2
1. Project Development Objective ..........................................................                 2
2. Key Performance Indicators ..........................................................2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported
-by the Project ..........................................................2
2. Main  Sector Issues and Government Strategy .........................................3
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices .......5
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY ..........................................................7
1. Project Components ..........................................................7
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .............7
3. Benefits and Target Population .................................................... ..8
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .....................................9
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ....................................................9
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ...................9
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other
Development Agencies ...................................................                                   10
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ........................... 11
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .......................... 12
5. Value Added of Bank  Support in this Project ........................................ 13
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...................................................                                       13
1. Economic ...................................................                                            13
2. Financial ...................................................                                           14
3. Technical ...................................................                                           15
4. Institutional ...................................................                                       15
5. Social ...................................................                                              17
6. Environmental Assessment ...................................................                            18
7. Participatory Approach ...................................................                              19
F. SUSTAINABILITY  AND RISKS .................................................................                        19
1. Sustainability ...................................................                                      19
2. Critical Risks ...................................................                                      20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...................................................                       21
G. MAIN  CREDIT CONDITIONS ...................................................                                        22
1. Effectiveness Conditions ...................................................                           22
2. Other ...................................................                                               22
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................                                   23
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ...................................................                                  23



Annexes
Annex 1 - Project Design Summary ............................................                                                            24
Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description ............................................                                                      33
Annex 3 - Estimated Project Costs ............................................                                                           36
Annex 4 - Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................                                                   37
Annex 5 - Financial Summary ............................................                                                                 41
Annex 6 - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................  42
Annex 7 - Project Processing Budget and Schedule ............................................                                            49
Annex 8 - Documents in the Project File ............................................                                                     50
Annex 9 - IDA Supervision Plan ............................................                                                              51
Annex 10 - Lessons Learned Under MASAF I and Changes
Between MASAF I and II ............................................                                                    56
Annex  11 - Studies and  Findings for Preparation  of MASAF  II ...................................... 66
Annex 12 - Statement of Loans and Credits ............................................                                                   74
Annex 13 - Malawi at a Glance ............................................                                                               75
Map                    IBRD No. 27747R



Malawi
Second Social Action Fund Project (MASAF II)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
AFC03
Date: September 17, 1998                           Task Team Leader:           Norbert Mugwagwa
Country Director: Barbara Kafka                    Sector Manager:             Ruth Kagia
Project ID: MW-PE-49599 I Sector: Human Resources   Program Objective Category:  Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan       [X] Credit      [] Guarantee    [L] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$66 million/SDR 49.6 million
Proposed terms:                       [x] Multicurrency       [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):            []   Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee:      %
Service charge:    %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                3.9                                 3.9
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                      58.6                 7.4            66.0
Other (specify)Community Contribution                     6.2                                 6.2
Total                                                    68.7                 7.4            76.1
Borrower: Government of The Republic of Malawi
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agencies: Malawi Social Action Fund-Management Unit, Office of the President and Cabinet; Contributing
Agencies: National Economic Council (NEC) and Ministries of Finance, Justice, Education, Sports and Culture, Health
and Population, Water Development, Works and Supplies, Women, Youth and Community Services, Agriculture and
Irrigation, and Forestry, Fisheries and Environmental Affairs and Department of District Administration and Local
Government in the Office of the President and Cabinet.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):         1999           2000           2001           2002
Annual             13.6           22.8           20.7            8.9
Cumulative             13.6          36.4           57.1           66.0
Cumulative %             20.6           55.1           86.5          100
Project implementation period: 4 Years
Expected effectiveness date:   December 1, 1998
Expected closing date:     May 31, 2003



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   2
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE, PERFORMANCE iNDiCATORS
AND JUSTIFICATION
1. Project Development Objective
The main objective of this project is to enhance and sustain the provision and use of
resource endowments by beneficiary communities which will contribute to poverty
reduction. The project aims to: (a) address the need for socio-economic infrastructure
development in rural and urban areas; (b) support safety net programs through creation of
temporary employment for the very poor and financing initiatives to assist the most
vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children, persons with disabilities, the aged and
those affected by Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS); and (c) enhance in-
country capacity to identify, prioritize and implement projects by training of stakeholders
at national, regional, district and community level.
2. Key Performance Indicators
The success of this project will be evaluated and monitored based on the key performance
indicators as shown in Annex 1. The key performance indicators are:
a) improved and strengthened capacity of beneficiary communities to identify,
prioritize, supervise, monitor, maintain and operate projects;
b) improved access, quality coverage, sustainability and use of social services by
beneficiaries, including marginalized groups;
c) increased income of targeted beneficiaries through temporary employment; and
d) enhanced capacity of implementing agencies to manage and implement projects at
community level.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported
by the Project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 1 8349-MAI    Date of latest CAS discussion: August 27, 1998
Malawi's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective is to reduce poverty through (a)
growth which is widely shared, and (b) targeted interventions for the poorest. This
project contributes to the CAS objective by building upon the success of MASAF I and
fine tuning its processes as the cornerstone of the new self help and community
development paradigm adopted by the Government to deal with the country's pervasive
poverty.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   3
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
(a) Sector Issues
(i)   Poverty in Malawi. Poverty in Malawi is pervasive and manifests itself in
several ways. The country has low average incomes and a very unequal
distribution. A Poverty Profile' completed as part of MASAF I preparation
established that the Gini coefficient for Malawi is 0.62, the highest for any
African country with available data. For the poorest 20 percent of households
even the most basic food needs are not fully met. The indicators of social sector
development are similarly unfavorable. Infant mortality rate (133 per 1,000 live
births), child malnutrition, stunting and wasting (48.7% and 5.4%), maternal
mortality (620 per 100,000 births) and prevalence of disease is very high
compared even to other Sub-Saharan countries.
Ninety-five per cent of the total Malawian poverty gap is found in rural areas.
Most of the poor, and nearly all the core poor are among the smallholder
households. Even among the poor households, inequality is significant. The
bottom half of the smallholder households receive only 15 percent of the income,
while the top 10 percent receive 35 percent. Some of the pockets of most severe
poverty and highest densities of the poor are found along the Mozambique border.
Female-headed households (FHHs) have generally less income and a higher
dependency ratio. The low levels of overall development and the unequal
distribution of resources is a result of past policies that favored urban elite and
failed to provide the adequate incentive framework for civic participation in the
development process. In addition the implementation capacity for development
programs was low and administration over-centralized.
(ii)   Household Food Insecurity. A high proportion of the population is vulnerable
to food insecurity. By the month of June, most rural people are reduced to eating
two meals a day and in some districts 70 to 80 percent of households run out of
food by December. As a result over a quarter of the under-five's are stunted, a
manifestation of long-term malnutrition.
Constraints to poverty reduction include the small size of holdings and restrictive
land laws which prevent pooling, poor quality of land exacerbated by continued
soil erosion, a conspicuous lack of irrigation making agriculture vulnerable to the
low and unreliable rainfall in the country, lack of agricultural equipment and
limited credit availability that prevents adoption of improved seeds and fertilizers.
(iii)  Health Population and Nutrition. The health status of most Malawians is poor
and is worsening. Life expectancy is 43 years and 50 percent of children are
about two standard deviations below expected height for age. High levels of
morbidity and mortality are the result of poor access to safe water, poor nutritional
status, food insecurity, high prevalence of preventable diseases, poor hygiene and
"Malawi: Human Resources and Poverty: Profile and Priorities for Action" , World Bank, November
1995.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   4
sanitation, low access to health and social services, and high illiteracy and fertility
rates.
Malawians obtain health services from a variety of public and private sector
providers. There were 850 facilities in 1994 including hospitals, health centers,
dispensaries and health points. The Governnent is the largest provider of health
services. An analysis of the ownership of the facilities providing services shows
that, 40% of the facilities belong to the Ministry of Health and Population,
missions facilities own 19%, local authorities 8% and the remaining 33% of the
facilities, mostly normally small dispensaries and clinics, are owned by the private
sector or NGOs. According to service utilization data derived from routine health
statistics, three quarters of total outpatient attendance use government facilities,
while mission hospitals, which contain 38% of total hospital beds provide less
than 25% of inpatient care.
The Government is the biggest source of health finance. Total health
expenditures in Malawi were a little over US$4.60 per capita in 1995/96. This
places Malawi amongst the countries with the lowest level of health expenditures
in Africa. The demand for health services will increase because the population is
growing at 2.8% per annum and also because of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. HIV
prevalence is estimated to be 13% and the National Aids Coordination Program
predicts that the number of AIDS cases will double over the next decade. This
will put pressure on facilities which are already over-stretched.
(iv)   Education. In the primary education sub-sector, about 38,000 additional
classrooms are required. Currently, IDA, USAID, DFID, African Development
Bank, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau and European Union are funding
construction of primary schools in various parts of the country. In spite of these
efforts, there is still a gap of over 30,000 classrooms. In addition to these, there is
a severe shortage of learning materials, including books, in all the schools.
(v)   Water and Sanitation. Only 37 percent of the population are within the
recommended norm of 0.5 km from the drinking water source. The national gap
for potable water supply is estimated at 16,400 new boreholes, and 5,000 that
require rehabilitation. Similarly only 5.5 percent of Malawian population have
access to adequate sanitary facilities located within a convenient distance of
dwellings. At least 30 percent of the population is without any sanitary facilities.
Community participation is lacking in most cases resulting in relatively
centralized systems of operation and maintenance which are expensive to run. As
a result, there is need for considerable investment to rehabilitate existing systems
and extend services to new areas. The performance of the sanitation sector also
requires strengthening. The low coverage and the rapid urbanization have
resulted in the production of waste in quantities far beyond the capacity of the
sector agencies causing pollution of the environment and public waste.
(vi)  Infrastructure. In the infrastructure sector the existing total road network is
approximately 15,000 km of which 32 percent constitute the feeder roads system.
The main challenge for the Government at present is the inadequate financial



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 5
resources to meet all the requirements for road maintenance especially for the
primary road network, let alone for the feeder road system. This situation,
therefore, necessitates that communities or the local level structures should
participate in the development of new roads and maintenance of the feeder road
network and communal access roads. These improvements in the infrastructure
will enable the communities to have better access to socio-economic facilities.
(b) Government Strategy
The Malawi Social Action Fund has been designed and implemented under the Poverty
Alleviation Policy Framework. The policy aims at reversing the unequal and slow
development by supporting decentralized community-based development activities. In
the past two years, there has been an increased allocation of financial resources in the
Public Sector Investment Programme (PSIP) to the social sectors. For instance, in the
1997/98 development programme, the percentage share of development resources to the
social sector stands at about 64 percent with 26 percent going to education, 23 percent to
health, 8 percent to water, and 7 percent to community development respectively. This
represents an increase over the 1993/94 allocation of 43 percent.
Within each sector the bulk of the resources have been allocated to those projects that are
rural in nature and have a more positive impact on alleviating poverty. These include
projects in primary health care, primary education, rural water development and women
in development. Under the Poverty Alleviation Programme (PAP) the task of alleviating
poverty is seen as a shared responsibility of Government, Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), donors, private sector, and the communities themselves. It is in
this vein that the Government is promoting a decentralized strategy for development. As
a financing facility, MASAF is one of the key instruments that the Government has put in
place to promote community participation in national development activities. MASAF It
is a repeater project with an added urban focus under the CSP component and two new
components, the Sponsored Subprojects and Capacity Enhancement and Studies.
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
Poverty. This project would help support the Government's PAP in reversing the over-
centralized, paternalistic state system for service delivery, by empowering communities
to express their own demand and implement their own development projects in a
partnership with the public sector, through the Community Subprojects (CSP)
component. The Public Works Program (PWP) will directly transfer temporary income
to the poorer groups in poor communities through labor intensive public works. The
Sponsored Subprojects component (SSP) will assist the poorest of the poor among
marginalized groups through sponsoring agencies (SAs) by enhancing their capacity to
meet basic needs to enable them to participate in community activities. Targeting and
regional diversification in all components will ensure that the benefits are skewed
towards the poorer areas of the country.
Food Insecurity. The labor-based transfers in the PWP will directly assist the poor
through temporary employment in the months where there is little alternative



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   6
employment in rural areas. The infrastructure created under PWP and CSP will directly
assist communities to become more productive, especially access infrastructure such as
roads and bridges will be important to break the isolation that is a direct cause of food
insecurity. Subprojects in the areas of afforestation and erosion control will help reverse
environmental degradation, and improve soil fertility. Small scale irrigation schemes will
also help with agricultural productivity. MASAF is not the appropriate vehicle for
addressing the land-tenure issues; these are being addressed through the Bank's
assistance to the agricultural sector.
Health, Population and Nutrition. Improved access to safe water, improved schooling
(especially for girls), hygiene training and better access to clinics (through construction or
repair of clinics, roads and bridges) will all help improve the health of the population.
Policy issues are being addressed through ongoing and planned operations in the Health
and Population sector. MASAF has been instrumental in showing the merit of a
community-based approach, but is not a policy-setting institution.
Education. Through the community-managed and implemented construction and
upgrading of primary schools and Distance Education Centers (DECs), the CSP will help
improve learning through improved physical environment for the students. The provision
of safe water and sanitary facilities with each MASAF-financed school will help improve
the health status of children, thus enabling better learning. The community-based
approach is proving to be beneficial in improving the social capital of communities, so
that they are more forthcoming in their demands on the sector to provide the necessary
learning materials and teachers. As in the other sectors, the policy reforms are left to the
ongoing dialogue under other Bank and donor interventions.
Water and Sanitation. The CSP component will help close the gap in water supply in
Malawi by supporting a large number of community-managed water projects. By July
1998, under MASAF I, 1,1 18 boreholes, shallow wells and communal water points
(kiosks) were created or upgraded.
Roads. The PWP and CSP components will help with deferred maintenance, drainage
works and bridges to help meet the demand for all-year access to marginalized
communities. Only roads included in the district plans will be rehabilitated or
maintained.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                7
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1.  Project Components
(see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown)
Component                       Category              Cost Includes    % of       Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total   financing       Bank-
(US$M)                  (US$M)    financing
1. Community Subprojects       Subprojects, works, goods,          51.1          67.1       42.6        64.6
(CSP): infrastructure, social   services, Monitoring and
mobilization and capacity   Evaluation (M & E),
building, beneficiary       Information Education &
targeting and project       Communication (IEC), training
monitoring and evaluation.    and incremental operating costs.
2. Public Works Program        Subprojects, works, goods,           13.1         17.2       12.5        18.9
(PWP): projects for         services, M & E, IEC, training
construction, rehabilitation  and incremental operating costs.
and maintenance of social
and economic infrastructure.
3. Sponsored Subprojects       Subprojects, works, goods,            0.5          0.7        0.5         0.8
(SSP): projects to          services, M & E, IEC, training
rehabilitate facilities and  and incremental operating costs.
provide services that will
benefit vulnerable groups
such as orphans, street
children, people with
disabilities, the aged and
those affected by HIV/AIDS.
4. Capacity Enhancement and    Training and technical support,       3.9          5.1        3.9         5.9
Studies (CES): strengthen   equipment, fumiture and
capacity at Management      supplies, field and incremental
Unit (MU), support building   operating costs, M & E, studies.
capacity of stakeholders at
national, district and
community levels.
5. Incremental Operating Costs:  Salaries, benefits, travel and      7.5          9.9        6.5         9.8
Management Unit, Zone       subsistence expenses of project
Offices and IEC costs in    staff, operation and maintenance
support of the above four   of offices, vehicles, etc. and IEC
components.                 activities.
Total                               76.1        100         66.0       100
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
(a)     Support to GOM  Poverty Alleviation policy/plan through community
empowerment and employment generation. The project will support GOM's
decentralization efforts, improve targeting of resources and build capacity at local
authorities to respond to community needs.
(b)     The project will ensure consistency with specific national, sectoral standards and
guidelines (e.g. for the construction of schools and health centers, carrying
environmental impact assessments, rural water supply and road rehabilitation and
maintenance).



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                    8
3. Benefits and Target Population
Benefits. The direct benefits of the proposed project would be the sustained physical and
human capital improvements generated by the subprojects. Specifically, the project is
expected to increase the number of people that will have access to and use of socio-
economic infrastructure in rural and urban areas, and increase school enrollment in
project areas. The capacity enhancement component will enhance the capacity of
communities to manage their own development programs, transfer resources to the
vulnerable groups and increase their knowledge and income earning opportunities, and
increase the number of public sector staff and others trained in new skills. The
community subprojects will increase the use of roads and bridges and improve education,
water and health facilities in the project areas. The public works program will create
temporary employment and enhance the cash income of poor households in urban and
rural areas (particularly female headed households (FHHs)) and their access to social and
economic development opportunities.
MASAF has been an active instrument in human capital formation, empowering
Malawians through skills training and on-the-job training in building, carpentry as well as
financial reporting and management. In addition, MASAF activities create conditions for
realization of long-term benefits which take a long time to mature, e.g. higher earnings
from educational attainment, as well as immediate benefits such as access to socio-
economic facilities from improved roads and bridges, cash income earned from
employment at project sites in the rural areas, food consumption increase from additional
cash earned, etc. The Beneficiary Assessment (BA March 1997) revealed that pupils now
go to school early and parents and guardians allow even older girls to attend school
because the schools are now more accessible. The effects of such decisions include
delayed marriage and its positive effects of smaller family sizes, and reduced fertility.
Direct financing injects money into the rural economy, taps skills and talent from among
the communities making them active members of the society and building local capacity
for broader development. By so doing, MASAF has given back the ordinary rural
Malawians their dignity and turned them into active participants in their own
development.
Target Population. Using available data, the project will target relatively poorer
communities, with priority given to FHHs. It will aim to reach those communities which
have been identified as critically poor but who have not, during the first project,
attempted to access funds for eligible activities. Specifically, the CSP component will
focus on wider geographical distribution and broader population coverage per district; the
PWP component will focus on geographical selection of areas with highest poverty in
rural and urban areas; SSP will target vulnerable groups such as orphans, street children,
people with disabilities, the aged and those affected by HIV/AIDS by using NGOs and
other formal/informal social institutions as sponsoring agencies and partners in capacity
strengthening and delivery of services to these groups; the CES Component will focus on
in-country capacity building at the national, district and community levels. This will be
confirmed by household surveys, beneficiary assessments and routine MIS data
collection.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                  9
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The MASAF MU has been given delegated authority with respect to decision making on
operational matters of the project. It will retain responsibility for the execution of the
project as a quasi-autonomous agency under the Office of the President and Cabinet
(OPC). The OPC appoints the Executive Director, members of the MASAF Board (MB)
and the chairperson of the MB. The members of the MB are: a Traditional Authority, the
Director for Centre for Social Research, the Executive Secretary of CONGOMA,
Secretary to the Treasury, the Secretary for Poverty Alleviation Programme, the Secretary
for the National Economic Council, the Secretary for Justice, the Secretary for DDLGA,
and two members with skills in urban planning and management and private sector
experience, respectively. The Board provides the policy oversight over the MU and
monitors its compliance with the guidelines for the MU's operations as set out in the
Project Manuals2. The MB will also monitor the impact of MASAF on the communities
served.
The existing MASAF MU has five Divisions: Administration, Finance, Community
Subprojects (CSP), Public Works (PWP) and Sponsored Subprojects (SSP); and four
Support Units: Information Technology (IT), Communication and Training (CT), Internal
Audit (IA), and Technical Services (TS) Units at the center. The central level is
supported by sixteen Zones (twelve CSP and four PWP) which are headed by Project
Officers (POs). Zone Offices (ZOs) have a staff complement that facilitates
implementation through support to administration, accounting and technical supervision.
Adequate experience in implementing projects has been gained during the
implementation of MASAF I, therefore only changes necessary to introduce the new
components and elements have been made to the MU.
In support of the SSP component, Sponsoring Agencies (SAs) will be engaged to
implement project activities with people with disabilities, and HIV/AIDS affected people.
The criteria for selection of SAs and implementation procedures for this component are
stipulated in the PIM and the supporting SSP Handbook. The MN's role would be to
monitor adherence by the SAs to the objectives of the component and to the criteria for
selection of projects. The MU will be supported in the new role by an Advisory
Committee made up of the active NGOs, a representative from the Ministry of Women,
Youth and Community Services (MWYCS) and MASAF staff.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
Conventional Project Approach. This approach was rejected because Government's
'top-down' style of management and over-centralized administration has in the past
created significant hurdles for the implementation of development programs. These
institutional constraints are further exacerbated by severe capacity limitations within
2Project Manuals include the Project Implementation Manual, Administration Manual and Accounting
Manual.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                10
Government. The project, therefore, promotes community participation in identification,
preparation, planning and management of community level projects and adopts 'bottom-
up' processes with governrnent agencies, NGOs, private institutions and individuals
providing facilitation where needed. Interventions supported by the SSP component will
target marginalized groups through support to sponsoring agencies, hence the concept of
a Sponsored Subproject. Community participation in identification, preparation and
financing of subprojects will improve prioritization and efficiency in the use of resources.
Provision of Credit to Targeted Groups. This was rejected because the policy
framework in Malawi for sustainable micro-enterprise development credit is only now
evolving and experience to date with such (largely concessional) schemes has been poor.
The project will support a district level program of labor-intensive construction to be
targeted at the poorest Extension Planning Areas (EPA) within districts as a safety net
operation that will provide short-term income transfer as it provides off-farm employment
and increases incomes.
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Sector Issue                      Project                  Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-Financed
Improvement of quality of primary  Primary Education                  S               S
education
Water policy reforn, upgrading &   National Water Development         U               U
management of water resources      Project
Improvement of quality, access,    PHN Sector Credit                  S               S
efficiency & effectiveness of popula-
tion, health and nutrition interventions
Infrastructure Improvement         Malawi Infrastructure Project      S               S
Roads Maintenance Rehabilitation   Rehabilitation of National  Under Preparation
Project                            Roads
Social Recovery                    MASAF Project                  On-going           HS
Other Development Agencies
World Food Program (WFP)           For Component of Public           N.A             N.A
Works of MASAF I
European Union (EU)                Microprojects                     N.A             N.A
Girls Attainment in Basic Literacy and   School Projects             N.A             N.A
Education (GABLE)
Services for Health, Agriculture and  NGO Capacity Building         N.A              N.A
Rural Enterprise Development
(SHARED)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory), N.A. (Not applicable).



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   11
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
The Malawi Infrastructure Project (Credit 2069-MAI) was closed on December 31, 1996.
Relevant lessons learned from the Implementation Completion Report (Rpt. No. 16382,
March 17,1997) are: (a) the ability of government both to provide counterpart funds, and
to match recurrent expenditure should be assessed and confirmed at the appraisal stage,
and reassessed annually; (b) different elements of the same component co-financed by a
number of aid agencies, posed special challenges especially when agencies withdraw
their support for the project; (c) the participation of stakeholders and beneficiaries in the
development of projects particularly the participation of the private sector and beneficiary
communities in provision and maintenance of infrastructure needs to be reinforced; and
(d) frequent supervision missions with an appropriate skills mix should be undertaken
throughout the life of a project, especially for complex projects.
Relevant lessons from the more than 30 IDA-supported social funds are that to be
effective in providing resources for poverty reduction initiatives, these funds should: (a)
be managed autonomously, (b) have thorough and simple procedures and flexibility in
procurement and disbursement, (c) emphasize supervision, monitoring and community
participation, and (d) be potentially sustainable.
The design of the on-going Malawi Social Action Fund Project (MASAF I) was based on
lessons learned from other Bank funded projects, as well as experiences of other
development agencies in Malawi. Funds under MASAF I, which was signed on May 15,
1996, have been fully committed. Whereas this project performed very well from its
inception, its experiences have been cyclical. First, it demonstrated the community
ability to prepare projects that passed appraisal and approval. Second, the MU showed
strong resilience in coping with a flood of demand. Third, in the face of pressure to
complete projects under implementation, the MU responded by setting up a management
system which has complied with requirements while completing projects at a pace that
guarantees timely completion.
Independent evaluations commissioned for the Mid-Term review (including a beneficiary
assessment) as well as studies carried in preparation for this Project have highlighted the
following key lessons (for description of changes in design between this project and
MASAF I and their rationale, and for detailed lessons learned, please see Annex 10):
(a) Communities are capable of managing the full project cycle in record time and
with excellent quality;
(b) Strong ownership of programs by Government (at all levels) is critical for the
project's success;
(c) The complementarities between the PWP and CSP are clearly understood and
appreciated by stakeholders;
(d) Importance of strong technical supervision and appraisal support;
(e) Importance of involvement of district level local government staff in appraisal
and supervision of subprojects;



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                12
(f) The key role of MASAF MU staff in facilitating community empowerment,
providing transparent and non-political leadership and management, and
processing large volumes of subproject work efficiently and quickly;
(g) The need to speed up completion of subprojects has led to improvements in
expenditure justification, changes in standard infrastructure design to improve
speed of construction and increased role of MASAF's Zone Offices in the
justification process;
(h) There is great latent capacity for using local consultants for studies and reviews in
Malawi and a minimum number of external consultants will be needed;
(i) Whereas a number of NGOs are active in supporting AIDS related activities, there
is inadequate support to other disadvantaged groups by GOM, donors and NGOs;
and
(j) Targeted IEC is a powerful development intervention as it contributes to moving
from an asymmetrical information environment to one in which information is
freely and equitably shared between all stakeholders through a variety of media.
The formulation of the IEC strategy for MASAF II has taken this lesson into
account.
Relevant lessons from on-going social sector projects in Malawi include:
(a) The importance of quick follow-up to community mobilization, i.e. of not leaving
large gaps between mobilization and provision of support;
(b) The cost and quality advantage of using community-based approaches;
(c) New more environment friendly technologies such as using soil/cement blocks
instead of burnt bricks are applicable to the Malawi situation; and
(d) The importance of efficient project management units that understand and apply
IDA and GOM operational procedures and guidelines.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
The Government has provided counterpart funds under MASAF I on time and in
adequate amounts in spite of a fiscal crisis. It has prepared the first PCD draft and
completed the Project Implementation Manual and a number of more detailed handbooks
on administration, technical matters, project cycles, etc. The Minister of Finance has
reiterated that MASAF is Government's number one project and is the main instrument
for implementing its poverty alleviation strategy. There was also a follow up meeting on
July 15, 1997 on policy issues affecting the implementation of the MASAF project. In
addition to a letter from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the Country Director, the
President of Malawi has written the President of the World Bank, requesting that a
follow-up project be prepared as expeditiously as possible.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 13
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
The Bank will bring its experiences of social funds in more than fifty projects as well as
expertise in strengthening community based activities to assist in the design and
implementation of MASAF II. Also, active participation and follow through by the
Resident Mission staff will help MASAF pull together the best practices information on
community experience in Malawi and elsewhere.
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ N.A.    million; ERR= 29% [ Cost Effectiveness
Analysis:
[X] Other (least cost analysis)
Economic Rates of Return. MASAF is primarily a demand driven project where
communities identify and decide the type of project that is most needed in their area and
which will provide the greatest return to their inputs of labor, time and materials. Under
the community subproject component of MASAF I, communities identified and
undertook projects to construct primary schools, distance education centres, and health
clinics and to rehabilitate and create boreholes and rural roads. Recent economic and
sector work in Malawi confirm that this selection of projects provides very high
economic rates of return. Rates range from 15% in secondary education to 50% in the
creation of boreholes. The economic rate of return for rural road rehabilitation,
undertaken in the public works component of the project, is similarly high at 26%. Using
these rates and assuming that communities in MASAF II will follow the same pattern of
project selection as they have in MASAF I, the overall Economic Rate of Return for
MASAF II would be 29% (see Annex 4for sectoral ERRs).
Project benefits will be measured in a thorough and consistent manner in MASAF II.
Steps are already underway under MASAF I to identify and include an expanded list of
benefit indicators in the revised Management Information System. For example, PWP
has started to count private and commercial traffic on the roads before and after
rehabilitation as well as to measure household income and consumption of participants
before and after their involvement. The aim of these efforts is to have an MIS that
provides timely information for measuring the cost-benefit of individual subprojects and
of MASAF as a whole.
Least Cost Analysis. MASAF uses simple and appropriate technologies, involves
significant community participation, and utilizes local management structures and
contractors to plan and undertake civil works. As a result, the unit costs of MASAF
projects are generally lower than traditionally managed, top-down projects. Initial cost
comparisons between MASAF subprojects and regular social infrastructure contracts
indicate that unit rates of MASAF funded works are about half the cost of commercially
contracted works. For boreholes, the unit cost difference is around 20% lower than
traditional projects. Monitoring and supervision costs were also significantly less in



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                        14
MASAF subprojects as these activities are largely integrated into existing governing and
supervisory structures. Finally, community ownership and agreements to maintain
structures ensure that maintenance costs borne by central and local government are very
low.
Recurrent Cost Implications. During desk and field appraisal of subproject proposals,
MASAF liaises closely with sectoral ministries to ensure that the recurrent cost
implications of its projects are sustainable and within the sectoral framework. In the
education and health sectors, project appraisals involve the District Education Officer or
District Health Officer who assesses if sufficient teachers/nurses are in place and ensures
that the recurrent costs of the proposed project are within Ministry targets. School
construction, in particular, rarely leads to additional teacher requirements, but rather
alleviates the severe overcrowding that characterizes the system. Borehole creation also
does not add to Government's recurrent costs as communities are trained to maintain the
boreholes and communities' ability to establish a contributory fund for financing
operation and maintenance costs are assessed at desk and field appraisal and are one of
the selection criteria. PWP rural road rehabilitation is itself largely a maintenance
activity and does not add to ongoing government costs. Finally, the SSP component will
require that NGOs absorb the subsequent recurrent costs of the subprojects and this
would be calculated as part of the community's contribution.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$ N.A.     million; FRR= N.A.
Community participation is an integral feature of MASAF, generating and mobilizing
additional resources to meet project costs and creating a more sustainable environment
after project completion. Communities are expected to contribute a share of individual
subproject costs (see Annex 5). Levels vary by the type of subproject - an education
project may require early contributions of materials and labor while a water project may
require subsequent contributions towards maintaining the project. Projections indicate
that the share of community costs will reach nearly US$ 20 million over the life of the
project. Such figures likely underestimate community contributions of labor and future
beneficiary assessments will attempt to fully account for this contribution.
More importantly than the community's financial contribution, however, is the
philosophy of self-help and ownership that is developed throughout project identification
and implementation. The skills learnt lby communities during the project to use and
account for funds, and to build, rehabilitate and maintain infrastructure lead to more
sustainable development. As such, it is expected that i) the productive life of the
communal asset will be longer than in the non-participatory planning case; and ii) that the
recurrent cost burden on central and local governments will be lower than in the non-
participatory case.
Financial Accountability. M1lechanisns to ensue financial control and accountability
are incorporated in the Project Implementation Manual as well as in the Accounting and
Auditing Handbooks. Funds accounts will be maintained in accordance with
international accounting standards. The annual financial statements will be audited in
accordance with International Standards of Auditing by independent auditors acceptable



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                15
to the GOM and IDA. The Auditor General audits the accounts of MASAF annually,
however because of the huge volume of financial transactions associated with the
projects, provision has been made for the AG to hire private auditors who carry out half
yearly audits of all subprojects. In addition, an Internal Auditor (IA) works full time on
the Project. The IA's main role is to ensure that there is full adherence to the internal
controls approved by the AG and IDA.
3. Technical
The activities to be carried out under the three components (Community Subprojects
Public Works Program and Sponsored Subprojects) have been prepared based on the
experience from MASAF I and are in accordance with accepted practices in Malawi.
Information and data on the costs of constructing community level infrastructure, e.g.
schools, health units, boreholes, bridges, etc. is available through the Management
Information System which is routinely updated by the MASAF MU. Maintenance of a
Price Data Bank to which communities can refer to for price comparisons is a key activity
of the MU which ensures that overcharging for materials is kept to a minimum. The
technology in use under the project is basic and in-country capacity exists to maintain and
repair the assets built. In addition, communities are trained in the use of the technology
and its maintenance, e.g. for boreholes, provision is made for community based
management training.
4. Institutional
Executing Agency. The MASAF MU has been given delegated authority with respect to
decision making on operational matters of the project. It will retain responsibility for the
execution of the project as a quasi-autonomous agency under the Office of the President
and Cabinet (OPC). The OPC appoints the Executive Director and members of the
MASAF Board (MB). The Board provides the policy oversight over the MU and
monitors its compliance with the guidelines as set out in the Project Manuals. The MB
will also monitor the impact of MASAF on the communities served. Three key
Government Ministries and departments - Ministry of Finance, Justice and National
Economic Council (NEC) - are represented at the Principal Secretary level on the MB to
coordinate mobilization of financial resources, provide legal counsel and ensure
consistency with sectoral policies. The other members of the Board represent interests of
the traditional authorities, Non Governmental Organizations in Malawi (CONGOMA),
local government and urban planning, private sector and poverty monitoring and
research.
At different phases of the project cycle, the MU and its Project Officers (PO) will
collaborate with: the District Executive Committee (DEC) which is the executive artn of
the District Development Committee (DDC) at the district level; NGOs; private
contractors; the Local Authorities; and Desk Officers (DO) for ministries of health,
works, education, water, and DDLGA, etc. To strengthen MASAF's collaboration with
sectoral ministries, DOs, who are a senior level staff in respective ministries, will be
assigned and their roles will be to: (a) provide detailed information to the MU on sectoral
gaps, policies and norms; (b) give feedback on issues arising from subproject



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                16
implementation; (c) obtain sectoral approval of subprojects for inclusion in MASAF work
program; (d) ensure sectoral recurrent budget covers assets created under MASAF; and
that (e) staff responsibilities include MASAF projects activities. In addition, involvement
of extension workers from the line ministries and NGOs will be essential for the success
of MASAF. Circulars articulating the roles and responsibilities of DOs and extension
workers in supporting MASAF activities will be issued by the respective Principal
Secretaries of the key ministries to all their staff. With respect to implementation of the
PWP roads subprojects, a Memorandum of Understanding will be entered into between
MASAF MU, the Ministry of Works and Supplies, DDLGA and the National Road
Authority (NRA) to formalize their respective roles. MASAF MU has developed
handbooks to be used by MASAF staff and stakeholders to assist them in the
implementation of the various components. These handbooks will be revised
continuously as implementation proceeds.
Project Management. The existing MASAF MU has five Divisions: Administration,
Finance, Community Subprojects (CSP), Public Works (PWP) and Sponsored
Subprojects (SSP); and four Support Units: Information Technology (IT),
Communication and Training (CT), Internal Audit (IA), and Technical Services (TS)
Units at the center. The central level is supported by sixteen Zones (twelve CSP and four
PWP) which are headed by Project Officers (POs). Zone Offices have a staff
complement that facilitates implementation through support to administration, accounting
and technical supervision. Adequate experience in implementing projects has been
gained during the implementation of MASAF I. Therefore, only changes necessary to
introduce the new components and elements have been made to the MU and these are as
follows: (a) an additional engineer or Quantity Surveyor (QS) with support staff is
proposed to strengthen the Technical Services Unit sufficiently to address
implementation issues related to the urban activities; and (b) the Head of the SSP with
support staff.
The addition of a specific focus on provision of infrastructure to the poor urban
populations though demanding technically and organizationally will not impose a
separate burden on the MU. The existing administrative and financial management
capacity is adequate to support the activities envisaged including the addition of an urban
infrastructure focus. The engineer or QS will therefore work very closely with the Urban
Councils' and Municipalities' relevant departments who have the responsibility to draw
urban development plans, contribute to funding as well as support beneficiary
communities develop and approve projects for MASAF's consideration and funding.
Urban local authorities play a critical management role by ensuring that projects adhere
to urban technical standards and norms, e.g. the Water Board for water projects and
Ministry of Works for physical infrastructure construction. The MU will also work with
the Community Development Committees selected by the communities as their
representatives in urban areas as well as with the TAs.
In support of the SSP component, Sponsoring Agencies (SAs) will be engaged to
implement project activities with the disadvantaged groups. The criteria for selection of
SAs and implementation procedures for this component are stipulated in the PIM and the
supporting SSP Handbook. The MU's role would be, through the appointed Head, to



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                17
monitor adherence by the SAs to the objectives of the component and to the criteria for
selection of projects. The MU will be supported in the new role by an Advisory
Committee made up of the active NGOs, a representative from the Ministry of Women,
Youth and Community Services (MWYCS) and MASAF staff.
5. Social
In addition to the tangible physical outputs of MASAF subprojects, participation in the
process of identifying, implementing and managing the subprojects produces a variety of
related benefits for the communities and support institutions alike. The benefits include:
(a) building up of a trust capital between communities and public, NGO and private
institutions and individuals working therein; (b) a focus on support to disadvantaged
social groups; and (c) an increase in direct benefits to women and girls.
Despite earlier findings through the Systematic Client Consultation (SCC) (1995) at the
design stage of MASAF I that communities neither trusted nor believed in politicians,
extension workers and NGOs, the BA (1997) recorded a dramatic transformation in
attitudes among both groups towards each other. Politicians and extension workers
(Community Development Agents) were able to demonstrate a level of adaptability
consistent with their roles and thereby pulled themselves from the bottom of the pile of
community partners to the top ranking contributors to community efforts. NGOs had
postured as being the "first' link to communities - however, the communities did not
perceive it that way, they expressed the opposite view during the SCC. By providing
communities the choice of whom to collaborate with, MASAF gave the NGOs a wake-up
call regarding their 'raison d'etre'. As a result, NGO responses varied from initial
withdrawal of support to enthusiastic response to the communities' demonstrated
capacity to play a lead role in and manage their own development.
Through exhibiting their control over resources, communities shifted the power balance
and demanded accountability for actions by groups active at community level. The
results have been that politicians now offer to work with communities on projects per
requests, traders comply with price lists used by the PMCs on procuring materials, NGOs
respond to requests for facilitation and communities' status has received a boost - they
feel more empowered and enjoy their sense of achievement. Clearly, structured
participation and demand for accountability from public officers and people working with
communities results in equitable empowerment. In effect, this slow process (achieved in
record time in the case of MASAF) brings out and reinforces social norms that are
inherent in communities or have been embedded in society. The process further increases
the viability of responsive local government.
By design, the MASAF approach demands maximum participation by all members of the
community in the project cycle. However, experience has clearly demonstrated that no
matter how much communities aspire to embrace equity, there will always be a more
disadvantaged segment of the community that is left out by normal processes. These
groups need to be reached out to in different ways. The MASAF II SSP component has a
unique feature built into it to reach out to the disadvantaged through NGOs. This
component will provide a vehicle for a dual release of energies: first, the vulnerable



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                18
groups such as orphans, street children, people with disabilities, the aged and those
affected by HIV/AIDS have an opportunity to contribute and provide for themselves; and
second, family members and the community at large that have been coping with
providing for the disadvantaged additional needs will now be able to focus on productive
endeavors.
The MASAF IEC campaigns coupled with direct community involvement in the
organization and management of activities focused attention on women's priorities,
needs and capabilities. Involvement of women in PMCs and PWP projects in both rural
and urban areas enabled them to show their abilities. Women excelled in financial
management on PMCs, thereby strengthening the argument for gender balance in PMCs
and improving the social standing of women in society. Positive impacts have also been
noted on girls' education. As parents get involved in school affairs, as they see that there
will be teachers for their children, and as teachers see that they will have decent housing,
their confidence in the school system increased, and the school environment is perceived
as stable enough for their girl children to attend school. Overall, intensified participation
in physical infrastructure, besides giving communities a sense of achievement, widened
their social horizons.
6. Environmental Assessment
Environmental Category  [ ] A   [x] B  []C
The poorest and most vulnerable sector of the population are often the most dependent on
renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion. But, while
indirectly benefiting from the externalities of improved natural resources management,
poor communities may not perceive environmental degradation to be more important
than, for example, construction of infrastructure such as school buildings, health posts,
boreholes, roads and other projects eligible for support under MASAF II. Because poor
communities often lack the impetus and initial capital to get started, environmental
problems often have to be pro-actively targeted at the community level. MASAF is
expected to play an active role in promoting and supporting subprojects aimed at
improving poor communities' management of the natural resources which they control
and depend on for their livelihood.
To this end, environmental screening, review and assessment of potential environmental
impacts of investments will be an integral part of MASAF subprojects throughout design,
implementation, supervision and monitoring. In addition, as part of the social
mobilization activities supported by the project, MASAF will facilitate environmental
institutional capacity building to ensure awareness, enforcement and monitoring of
environmental standards and guidelines, as well as promote subprojects aimed at
improving communities' management of their natural resources.
While the extent and diversity of potential MASAF investments present a challenge for
mainstreaming environmental assessment review procedures in the subprojects cycle, the
small-scale and simplicity of design of the majority of the projects to be financed allow
the proposal of an effective environmental screening, evaluating, and supervising
mechanism of possible environmental impact. In conformity with the national



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                19
environment guidelines, MASAF has developed and mainstreamed environmental
assessment review procedures as part of the subproject cycle. It will also raise
community awareness about environmental impacts of the program-fimded activities and
promote ways to mitigate and avoid negative effects as part of the IEC. In addition,
MASAF will support improved natural resources management through its support for
subprojects aimed at improving natural resources management by poor communities.
7. Participatory Approach
Project preparation for this repeater project, besides taking into account the findings of
the Systematic Client Consultation carried out for MASAF I in 1995, utilized the findings
of the Beneficiary Assessment of April 1997 and Mid-Term Review of March 1997. In
addition, two community needs assessments were carried out as inputs in the design of (a)
the new SSP component for the disadvantaged and marginalized groups, i.e. people with
disabilities, orphans, the aged and HIV/AIDS affected people, carried out in May 1998;
and (b) the focus on the urban areas for the CSP component. The findings from these
assessments were discussed at consultations with relevant NGOs and community groups
for the SSP component and with the Local Authorities, Water Boards and Community
Development Committees representatives for the urban focus of the CSP. In support of
these Government efforts in promoting community participation, the Bank's work in the
areas of community participation and collaboration with NGOs and civil society
organizations in Malawi was strengthened. MASAF decision making processes are
expected to contribute towards increased capacity of existing structures within local
government (DDCs, DECs, DSSs, ADCs and VDCs) and the traditional village system,
which would serve as effective mechanisms for active participation by the poor in
determining options and priorities for alleviating poverty and the sustainable management
of their natural resources base.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
The MASAF Management Unit and its field offices will be coterminous with the Project,
but the principles of community contribution, procedures to involve communities in
planning, project design and implementation as well as the criteria developed to support
community initiatives will be retained, e.g., (a) community project committees
established to build a school, hand over the school to the school committee at completion;
and (b) in water, Community Based Management (CBM) provides skills for borehole
maintenance. The MASAF approach is being advocated for adoption by the regular
sectoral programs of the Government. The skills learned by communities during the
project in using and accounting for funds, building, maintaining and rehabilitating
infrastructure will be internalized by them. The transfer of skills to district staff,
especially in the appraisal, implementation and monitoring of subprojects will help
sustain the MASAF II processes and approach.
At MTR of the project, the District Development Fund which was established in each
district under the UNDP Fifth Country Program would have accumulated sufficient



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                      20
experience in implementing projects and would allow the DDC to assume some of the
following functions: prioritizing of subprojects at district level irrespective of the source
of funds, and adopting the MASAF approach, processes and project selection criteria.
Adoption by sectors of the MASAF approach generally for community-based activities
and transferring functions of the MU to the district levels are two important issues to be
addressed during the MTR. In support of the above, each sector has undertaken to
designate a desk Officer who will act as a conduit between the sector ministry and
MASAF. The advantages of this cross fertilization are that the sector ministry would
internalize the lessons and make provision for the recurrent costs of the assets created
while the communities would own the assets and therefore take better care of them. In
addition to the above, under each project component, there would be a Sustainability
Prospective Plan (SPP) prepared and agreed with each sector ministry. The SPP would
lay out how recurrent costs, operations and maintenance would be carried after
completion of the project.
2. Critical Risks
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Project Outputs to Development Objectives
New skills are used by NGOs and the        L       Continue dialogue with the NGOs and private sector
Private Sector
Communities continue to be interested in  M        Intensify IEC messages in the clarification and reporting
participating in projects                          phase - sharing experiences across communities and
forging a spirit of competition.
Project MU remains efficient              M       Team building exercise and management development
undertaken as part of MASAF II preparation
No major natural disaster affecting       M        Since this is related to the vagaries of the weather,
resource endowment occurs                          project cycle revised accordingly - less work, more
planing in rainy season
GOM's commitment to project is            L
maintained
Donor coordination develops smoothly      M        Close coordination with core donor groups together
with action plan to establish, and agree on firm funding
targets in advance for each fiscal year
Other IDA credits are implemented         M        Memoranda of understanding with other sectors, e.g.
according to MASAF's mechanisms                    MOW, MOA, MOHP, being prepared
Findings of studies are applied.          L        PHRD Grant funded TA findings utilized in project
design and will be used during implementation
Project Components to Outputs
Materials and human resources are         M        Disbursement arrangements have been reviewed and
available in timely fashion.                      PMCs trained in advance on activity planning
Government counterpart funds are          M        GOM reminded of the need to make funds available in
available on time.                                time
Women are interested in participating     L
Communities develop friendly              M        IEC education and information dissemination to change
environmental attitudes                            communities attitudes to use natural resource
endov ments
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Luckily for MASAF, insistence on not politicizing the project and transparency of its
processes have kept it free of political controversy. However, other controversies are
likely to arise. First, the over-flow of approved projects during 1997 demonstrated the
weakness of the Project Steering Committee, as currently constituted, as a management
decision making body for MASAF. The inability to stop the overflow mirrored the
weakness of the PSC which emanated from: poor participation by most of the members,
inconsistencies in attendees which inhibited follow-up of issues, poor appreciation of the
MASAF concept by substitute attendees, and unwillingness to stop approvals when the
pipeline was full. Coupled with the addition of the urban subprojects concept and the
SSP, the role of the neew MASAF Board has been redefined to be broad and advisory
regarding policy matters and impact assessments of MASAF. However, this role
redefinition may not go down well with the sector ministries that are going to be excluded
from the Board. The expectation is that active involvement of the relevant sector Desk
Officers in project implementation and supervision activities by MASAF would mitigate
sector concerns where it matters, at the technical level.
A second issue could be the willingness of the local authorities to draw plans for the
squatter areas which are fast becoming 'de facto' parts of the urban areas. Part of the
reason for that is concern about the economic viability of the communities that live in
these areas. Urban planners doubt the willingness and ability to pay of these
communities. Assessments to date indicate that these communities make up for their low
individual ability to afford services through being organized and pooling their resources
to provide for their basic needs at affordable levels. However, in the case of water, the
level of fees to be charged by the Water Boards to the poor communities for water
accessed from the networks through the kiosks should be affordable by the communities.
MASAF direct financing coupled with community contribution should reduce the
investment costs for water, thereby requiring the Water Boards to charge considerably
less for water to the poor communities. Of concern has been the readiness of the Boards
to agree to the proposed arrangement. At a consultative meeting held by MASAF MU
and the Local Authorities during appraisal, the LAs and Boards were agreeable to play a
role but it is conceivable that the reality of implementation may cause the institutions to
change their minds. This may result in poorer communities failing to afford access to
piped water. Active dialogue with LAs and Boards by both the MASAF MU and the
ministries responsible for water and local government during implementation would
minimize the possibilities of these agencies reneging on their undertakings.
The third issue concerns the SSP: even though the NGOs conferred with have shown
enthusiastic support for the initiative, an element of uncertainty exists as to whether the
others will agree with the criteria for SAs selection and involvement and the level of
institutional support that would be provided for these SAs. Given the total lack of
organized support to these agencies, MASAF support would be considered as long
overdue recognition of the valuable work of these agencies. The few agencies selected
for the pilot would want to demonstrate that NGOs are effective and efficient providers of
essential services to the disadvantaged groups. Whereas the major issues likely to arise
during implementation have been addressed, those NGOs that did not participate may



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                22
raise objections and thereby engage the MU in lengthy justificatory discussions on the
adopted approach. The SSP Projects Officer would need to confer, on a regular basis,
with all the relevant NGOs regarding project procedures and progress.
Finally, an old controversy relates to the level of wages for the PWP: it is not clear
whether the demands for higher payments on works will subside. Experience during
MASAF I has shown that able bodied members of the community who would like to see
the PWP as formal employment continue to raise the issue of the level of the payments on
the PWP. Even though the IEC campaign will focus on explaining the objectives of the
PWP, it is unlikely that under conditions of high unemployment such as exist in Malawi,
the demands for high wages would die down. In addition, it is difficult to convince
people in need that the PWP payments are only meant to supplement their other means of
survival.
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions
As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) open the Project Account and deposit the initial amount of the Government's
counterpart funds;
(b) submit a copy of the signed Memorandum of Understanding between MASAF,
the Ministry of Works and Supplies, the Department of District and Local
Government Administration and the National Roads Authority describing the
objectives and roles of each party vis-a-vis MASAF's PWP;
(c) submit copies of the sectoral ministries Circular letters addressed to their
respective constituencies concerning the linkages between them and MASAF;
and
(d) have the MIS system operational.
2. Other
As covenants of project implementation
The Borrower shall:
(a)  ensure that the positions of the Executive Director and other higher level staff
involved in the implementation of the Project, shall be kept filled at all times
by appropriate staff, having qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA;
(b)  carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in MASAF Project
Implementation, Administration, and Accounting Manuals and except as IDA
shall otherwise agree, shall not amend these documents if such amendments
may, in the opinion of IDA, materially or adversely affect the implementation
of the Project;
(c)  maintain policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and evaluate the
Project on an ongoing basis, and in accordance with performance indicators;



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 23
(d)  not later than November of each year, undertake, in conjunction with IDA, a
joint annual review of the Project or, in the case of the Mid-Term Review, no
later than November 30, 2000;
(e)  following each review, undertake to act promptly and diligently to remedy any
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project;
(f)   submit to IDA for review, annual and quarterly progress reports on the status
of the Project, to be submitted not later than two months after the end of each
fiscal year and one month after the end of each quarter, respectively; and
(g)  maintain an appropriate management information system acceptable to IDA.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation. [x ] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Norbiert 14gwagX)a    
Sector Manager: Ruth legi
Country Director: Barbia Kafka



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                      24
Annex 1 - Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                  Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Sector-Related CAS Goal                                                                                                 (Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty alleviated.              1. Budget allocated to social sectors increases  1. National statistics (Integrated  Economic growth at projected rate.
by 5% from 1998 to 2002.                  Household Surveys (IHS)),
Qualitative Impact Assessments/
Survey.
2. Per capita Income increase by 180% from    2. Figures from Ministry of Finance
1998 to 2002.                             (MOF), IHS.
3. The number of people living under the  3. Poverty Annual Index (PAI)/IHS,
poverty limit decreases by 10% in 2002.   Poverty Studies.
Project Development Objective                                                                                      (Objective to Goal)
1. Enhanced and sustainable provision  1.1 3 million more people will have access and  1.1 National Surveys, Management  1.1 Government remains committed
of and use of resource endowments   use of socio-economic infrastructure by   Information Systems (MIS).           to fighting poverty as the main
by beneficiary communities.         End of Project (EOP)                                                           priority.
1.2 60-70% public and private sector and  1.2 Beneficiary Assessment (BA),    1.2 Other projects with similar goals
NGO staff and at least 30% of other       MIS.                                 are successfully implemented.
people trained will use the new skills.
1.3 17% increase in enrollment in project area   1.3 MIS, Sector Records.     1.3 Existing political and economic
schools by EOP.                                                               stability maintained.
1.4 25% increase in use of roads, bridges in    1.4 Sector Information Systems.  1.4 New economic stability
the project areas.                                                            maintained.
1.5 70% of schools, health units and other  1.5 MIS and sector records.
social infrastructure, used, managed and
maintained by communities and
Government by EOP.
1.6 25% increase in the number of CSP,    1.6 MIS.
PWP, SSP projects approved,
implemented and completed by EOP.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                    25
Project Design Summary (continued)
Narrative Summary                  Key Performance Indicators             Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Outputs                                                                                                          (Output to Objective)
1. Capacity of beneficiary         1.1 47% increase in the number of         1.1 Management Unit of MASAF            New skill are used by NGOs and
communities to: identify, prioritize,  applications received in an appraisable  (MU), Community Subprojects       the Private Sector.
supervise, monitor, maintain and    form by DECs at MTR and EOP,             (CSP).                               Communities continue to be
operate projects are inproved and   respectively.                                                                interested in participating in
strengthened.                                                                                                     projects.
Project MU remains efficient.
No major natural disaster
affecting resource endowment
occurs.
GOM's commitment to project
is maintained.
Donor co-ordination develops
smoothly.
Other IDA credits are
implemented according to
MASAF's mechanisms.
Findings of studies are applied.
1.2 10% of beneficiary community trained in   1.2 MU, CSP.
project cycle management.
1.3 30% increase in the number of projects  1.3 MU, CSP.
implemented and completed according to
quality standard and within prescribed
time by EOP.
1.4 25% increase in the number of projects  1.4 MU, CSP.
maintained after completion by EOP.
2. Community Subprojects           2.1 2164 new projects implemented and     2.1 MU, CSP.
Implemented.                        completed by EOP.
2.2 100 urban works completed.
3. Safety net programs established and  3.1 720,000 number of males and females that  3.1 MU, CSP
in operation.                      received at least 2 month's salary through
the safety net program from 1998 to 200 1.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                       26
Project Design Summary (continued)
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Outputs                                                                                                             (Output to Objective)
3.2 40% of subprojects funds disbursed to pay   3.2 PWP.
wages by EOP.
3.3 286 safety net subprojects completed by  3.3 MIS/PWP.
EOP.
4. Sponsored subprojects benefiting    4. 43 SSP benefiting marginalized groups by
marginalized groups.                EOP.
5. Capacity of implementing agencies  5.1 10 NGOs and private sector agencies  5.1 MIS/CSP, SSP.
(including NGOs private sector) for  trained in project cycle management by
managing and implementing           MTR, EOP.                               5.2 MIS/CSP.
projects at community level,     5.2 20% increase in subprojects assisted by
strengthened and enhanced.          NGOs and Private Sector by MTR, EOP.
6. Project relevant studies completed   6. 21 studies on impact assessment, future  6 BA's, IAS, MIS.
role of project management and
beneficiary assessment completed and
carried out by 2002.
7. Environmental impact assessed and  7. 1,395 number of environmental impact      7. Impact Assessment (IA).
mitigation measures taken.          assessment carried out by MTR.
8. Women's participation in MASAF   8.1 Women participation in Community       8.1 MIS.
activities increased and enhanced.  Project Management Committees (PMC)
increased by 30% EOP.
8.2 At least 50% of members of each       8.2 MIS.
maintenance committee should be women.
8.3 100,000 women employed in the Safety    8.3 MIS
Net Program.
9. PMU capacity for M & E           9.1 Project output indicators are monitored  9.1 MIS/MU.
increased.                          quarterly by PMU.
9.2 Development objective indicators are
monitored yearly by PMU
9.3 Goal/CAS indicators are monitored yearly.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                            27
Project Design Summary (continued)
Project Components/Sub-components                Inputs (budget for each                                        (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project description)                component)
1. Community Subprojects                                     USD 42.6 million       1. I MIS, Financial and       *  Materials and human resources are
This component would finance demand-driven community                                    Accounting returns.            available in a timely fashion.
based socio-economic infrastructure subprojects in rural and                         2*2 Mo            I      d   .   Government of Malawi (GOM)
urban areas. The choice of subprojects menu will include,                               ad ust outreach                counterpart funds are available on
inter alia: rehabilitation, extension, construction and                                  a                             time.
equipment for basic and secondary education; health                                      accordingly.              *   Women are interested in
facilities; rehabilitation and construction of economic                                                                participating.
infrastructure such as markets, small scale water supply,                                                          *  Communities develop friendly
storm drainage and sanitation, access roads and bridges.                                                               environmental attitudes.
2. Public Works Program                                      USD 12.5 million        3.1 MIS, IHS.
This component would finance labor-intensive works as a
safety net scheme in targeted poor rural and urban areas and
in so doing create temporary employment. These works
would be selected from already identified Government
projects which include, inter alia: road rehabilitation and
maintenance, land husbandry and afforestation, water supply,
sanitation and drainage schemes. Beneficiary participation
will be fostered at all stages of the project.
3. Sponsored Subprojects:                                     USD0.5 million         4.1 MIS.
This component would finance projects to rehabilitate facilities
and provide services that will benefit vulnerable groups such as
orphans, street children, people with disabilities and those affected
by HIV/AIDS. These subprojects would be identified,
prepared, implemented, managed and maintained by the
sponsoring agencies with inputs from beneficiary groups
where possible.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                        28
Project Components/Sub-components               Inputs (budget for each                                      (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project description)               component)
4. Capacity Enhancement and Studies:                        USD 3.9 million       4.1 MIS, IHS, Routine
This component would enhance in-country capacity at the                               studies.
MU, national, district and community levels to implement
subprojects and finance training of national, regional and
district agencies in the use of procedures, systems and criteria
jointly developed with MASAF. In addition, the component
would finance project relevant studies including, inter alia:
annual beneficiary assessments, impact assessments and
strategic studies to detennine the future role of MASAF,
using national agencies including NEC's Poverty Unit. It
would also facilitate learning from international experiences
by MU and Government policy makers.
5. Incremental Operating Costs: The Project would finance   USD 6.5 million       5.1 MIS, monthly Digest,
salaries; benefits; operational travel and subsistence of staff                        quarterly reports, half
while supervising projects; IEC activities and operation and                           yearly and annual audits
maintenance of offices, project vehicles, equipment, etc.                              and reports.
With the need to tighten on technical quality of projects and
financial accountability, the MU and Zone Offices must have
an adequate balance of skills.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29
MASAF Ill/ CSP Implementation & Disbursement Schedule                                                                                                                                                                                                       sheet CSP
Selected Scenario
(2 approval cycles per year)    year      0                                          1                                           2                                          34 
month   - r,        ns             1a2orrr r123  45  S                                                                                                          19  0  I  r 2 234 5  07  9  rOr rOIIaEIRlr rrr rroa   a       C       10 rIr   r 
MASAF 11 sub-projects                          approval cycle                             110o
(year 1 batch)                                                                               1110
approval cycle  ------o                        `7Ji ii ;
MASAF 11 sub-proeacts                                                                     approval cycle  --                          i 11
(year 2 batch)                                                                                                                           110o
appreval cycle                04       R~1i
MASAF 11 sub-projects                                                                                                                 approval cycle            -                 110
(year 3 batch)                                                                                                                                                                       1110
MASAF ( sub-projects                120
(ongoing in 1998)12
MASAF I sub-projects                                         l2
Ire-allocation of funds)
Sub-Projects to be Supervised                  6004060
(non-water sub-projeettl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1nn-atrsu-poecs                                                                                                                                              1]1:
(water sub-projects)                                                                                                2530water saab-projects32                                                                                             s
MASAF 11 CSP
anmual coat in US$                                                                 $ 9.264,196                                 $ 18,411,646                                S 15,759,646                                S 7,659,646
I non-water I water sub-projects)
total cost fo, MASAF 11 CSP component    $ 51,095,134                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~note 1:   sub-project (non-water) implementation period of 18 months
(1. 109 nan-meter + 1,055 water (3 water points each) sub-projects)                                                                                                   note 2:   indicated cost does not include CSP-related IEC cost



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30
MASAF 11 I PWP Implementation & Disbursement Schedule                                                                                                                                                                                                        sheet PWP
Selected Scenario                pa                                                                                                                                          31 
month     r                                   i r       i     a     r     ,    S5i   r                                       9Oi                                   a   a2r  3i   a                                                  530 7 0 a o l S S
I rainy season                 ~~~~Iron r, sn II~'wsao                                                                   any-sason                                   ainly seaso
MASAF 11l/ PWP scb-projects                     approval cycle
(year 1 batch)
approval cycle  -
MASAF 11ll PWP sub-projects                                                                approval cycle                      - 
(year 2 batch) 
approval cycle-
(aforestationl    1
MASAF Ill/ PWP sob-projects                                                                                                            approval cycle-         -
(year 3 batch)
approval cycle
MASAF I sub-projects                 24
(ongoing in 159981                   24
24
24_
Required Suporvsion Capacity12
MASAF 11 PWP
annual cost rin USS                                                                 5 3,233,471                                 5 4,581,733                                $4.133,471                                    1.161.733
total cost for MASAF 11 PWP component                                               $ 13,1 10.408
I286 sub-projects)
note: sub-yroject implementation yprnod of 8 nionths lull time, plus 4 months 50% time input, plus 1 month repairs dun to rain damage
only aforestation activitins coctiun full time in the rumny season



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 1
MASAF Ill/ SSP Implementation &  Disbursement Schedule                                                                                                                                                                                  d'heat SSP
Selected Scenario
year     0                                        1                                       2                                        3                                        4                                        5
month     I       d ' 2  * d S    $ I 05 1 0d  .I  27l   O S       0       1   5   101  IIl 7   I  l   51    l   d    0  I   01   9  .0   ,I    2  I   21   51   41   5l    1   7  1   0    0.I ,I  I    J  O S ? 9    70     II 2  7 
I riny -eaSOn Tl                         ra1iny esn                               a sesea I    IanYseas.n   I                                                       rin season
MASAF 11 sub-projects                    approval cycle  -       _    *          _           =___................._._._._.
(year I batch)                                                                      1
approval cycle         - 11--H        4                           i
MASAF 11 sub-projects                                                            approval cycle    - -    -                4 
(year 2 batch)                                                                                                                4 
approval cycle        ----                                            :
MASAF 11 sub-projects                                                                                                     approval cycle                            4
(year 3 batch)                                                                                                                                                        1                            xii
approval cycle             *                                         i :
A
Sub-Projects to be Supervised                                                                                                        1             41
IMASAF 11 SSPI
annual cost in US$                                                         S 152.698                                $150.960                                 $ 150.960                               5100.960
total cost of MASAF 11 SSP component                                       $ 555.578                                                                     note 1:   sub-project implementation period of112 months
I 43 sub-projects)                                                                                                                                       note 2:   indicated coot does not include SSP-related IEC cost



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                                                               32
CES Implementation Plan
MASAF CAPACITY AND ENHANCEMENT STUDIES: IMPLEMENT TIN SC   D L
I   __    _ _  iT _   1 1 _ _ _ _ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar -_   __  __Ier.__    __t.Year   __
91 9.0  - 12       5      4 9, 6   7         8      1 2 1011 1  2  3 4  56
TRAINING               __   _______L                                              _  I                         1        i I7                                         _  tzItI
MASAF staff                                            I_  IT    IL                                   --_lLI                            1 IIl---r                                    t
MU and zone staff study tours                      1l   _                                                 l                              _              _       l           _ 
Seniorstaffmanagement                        _
ISenior staffstrategic planning     1 11 1I11L--Lp_ t
ISAsionentafEAorettionIJ
SenioA stacicopuntingre                                                                      1 sk ils                                                                             t
|Seniorta                              p staff pht an                             |+vIideoH011_X-   X                                                                    I   
Advhicasuppommite stfnorienation  tec
All staffteam building _
'ojectofricer orientation                                          A   r l               f l  I
Poject officer EIA processes 
IProjectofficercomputin gskilstT                                     I     I
sProject Dfricer phot graphy             EE         l     lllll               llll t                                      ^^tr                IEI         w       
F rojectoffcerTOT - O                                                                             '
PTranjegct ontractors PW
qAdmin Asst and ZAA compute and accoun r   I I LLiTXtTt
I rchnical supervisors o      Cent on pr o                                                                                               
Triingnctoa supervisors    PWPn  Fnhadbok
R      Cgional Ministries   B       -                     r
Iconnultingservics-taoreoriestto
,,~4i~                                                                        ,,_.._  :.I                                                                                        4 CltS
T chncalfinancilreviewsriigntcnca-                       r !     -[a                                                 li-i            ^        -       :      =L| -              t
Bies serficaty assessment                       E                                                            -
CAompritiv entatiuon l ihoods (PWP -_
Evaldu      sorientation of M A  I---               1
Gender part oicipationstd
_ Fiel effiigemnc t reiew   40                                            I  .__                                                       ___                         _
PM    eniromena anagement rve               
\ ehsMinocotancta revoien    tation an capacit
For Emeuain ofietto MASA  wok managemenIt                                                                     r .  3          I
ontractors capcitn y  buldt'n                        j                                    .2,t                              |+?     



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   33
Annex 2 - Detailed Project Description
Project Background
The Government of Malawi is committed to poverty reduction as its long-term goal. In
August 1994, the government launched the Poverty Alleviation Program (PAP) and
appointed a new Presidential Council on Poverty Alleviation to oversee the development
of an implementing strategy. The Policy Framework for PAP, the output of this process,
was formally issued by the President in 1995. A poverty profile, based on data from
surveys in the early 1990s, was also jointly developed by the Government and IDA. A
summary of this profile was circulated widely in the country and discussed in a
Parliamentary seminar. Poverty was also the core discussion topic at the December 1995
Consultative Group meeting, which welcomed the establishment of social and poverty
indicators as a basis to measure development effectiveness. The Government's poverty
reduction strategy has two broad facets: (i) growth, which is widely shared; and
(ii) targeted interventions for the poorest.
The establishment of the Malawi Social Action Fund, under the oversight of the Ministry
of Economic Planning and Development was an important step towards this strategy.
GOM has recognized that they have created in MASAF an efficient mechanism for
creating and refurbishing the social and economic infrastructure. Funds under the First
Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF I), which was made effective in May 1996 have
been fully committed three years ahead of schedule. In June 1997, the Government
requested IDA to launch a follow-up project. The proposed Second Malawi Social
Action Project (MASAF II) will contribute to the Government's poverty alleviation
strategy by building upon the achievements of MASAF I. MASAF II was designed by
the GOM in consultation with IDA, taking into consideration lessons learned from
MASAF I, similar Bank funded projects, and experiences of other development agencies
in Malawi (See Annex 10).
For the preparation of MASAF II, the following studies were also conducted: (i) Needs
and Institutional Assessment for Poor Peri-Urban Communities; (ii) Urban Legal and
Policy Framework; (iii) Safety Nets and Public Works Program; (iv) A Comparative
Review and Evaluation of Community Subprojects Component and its Impact on the
Socio-Economic Status of the Beneficiaries; (v) Environmental Assessment; (vi)
Management Information Systems; (vii) Institutional Development and Management
Review; (viii) Sponsored Subprojects Assessment; and (ix) AGETIPS3. The findings
and/or recommendations of these studies are presented in Annex 11.
The project components are:
A study tour by the Project Preparation Teams to West Africa to study the Agence d'Execution de
Travaux d'Interet Public Centre le Sous-employ (AGETIP) system of operation to sharpen the urban
component of the project.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 34
1. Community Subprojects. Total cost of component US$5 1.1 million (IDA
US$42.61 million; Government of Malawi US$2.24 million; and Beneficiary
Communities US$6.24 million)
This component will finance demand-driven community based socio-economic
infrastructure subprojects in rural and urban areas, social mobilization and capacity
building, beneficiary targeting and project monitoring and evaluation. The choice of
subprojects menu will include, inter alia: rehabilitation, extension, construction and
equipment for sustainable basic and post basic education; health facilities,
rehabilitation and construction of economic infrastructure such as markets, small
scale water supply storm drainage and sanitation, access roads and bridges and natural
resource management. IEC activities under this component will continue the
sensitization, clarification and repetition of processes which began under MASAF 1.
Special emphasis will be placed on reaching under-served areas. These activities will
include flyers, posters, radio program and videos.
2. Public Works Program. Total cost of component US$13.1 million (IDA
US$12.5; and Government of Malawi US$0.7 million).
This component would finance labor-intensive works as a safety net scheme in
targeted poor rural and urban areas. In so doing, the works would create temporary
employment which would generate cash income to poor households. These works
would be selected from already identified Government projects which include, inter
alia: road rehabilitation and maintenance, land husbandry and afforestation, water
supply sanitation and drainage schemes, and rainwater collection. Beneficiary
participation will be fostered at all stages of the project. The component will also
include IEC activities such as the production of flyers, posters and radio programs.
Building on the lessons learned under MASAF I, these activities will place special
emphasis on gender and environmental issues.
3. Sponsored Subprojects. Total cost of component US$0.6 million (IDA US$0.5
million and GOM US$0. 1).
This component would finance projects to construct and rehabilitate facilities and
provide services (including transportation, care, etc.) that will benefit vulnerable
groups such as orphans, street children, people with disabilities and those affected by
HIV/AIDS. These subprojects would be identified, prepared, implemented, managed
and maintained by the sponsoring agencies with some inputs from the beneficiary
groups. IEC activities here will include flyers, posters, radio programs, videos and
the use of drama groups. As this is a new component with no activity under MASAF
I, the IEC strategy will focus on sensitization and clarification followed later by
reporting on project activities.
4. Capacity Enhancement. Total cost of component US$3.9 million (IDA US$3.9).
This component would strengthen capacity of the Management Unit and support
capacity building of all other stakeholders to implement subprojects. Specifically, it
will finance training of national, regional and district agencies in the use of
procedures, systems and criteria jointly developed with MASAF. In addition, the



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                  35
component would finance project relevant studies including, inter alia: annual
beneficiary assessments, impact assessments and strategic and technical studies to
determine the future role of MASAF, using national agencies including the Poverty
Unit in NEC. It would also facilitate learning from international experiences by MU
and Government policy makers.
5. Incremental Operating Costs. Total cost including IEC is US$ 7.5 million (IDA
US$ 6.5 million and Government of Malawi US$ 1.0 million).
In addition to IEC (see below) the component will finance salaries; benefits;
operational travel and subsistence of staff while supervising projects; and operation
and maintenance of offices, project vehicles, equipment, etc. With the need to tighten
on technical quality of projects and financial accountability, the MU and Zone Offices
must have an adequate balance of skills. Attracting the right caliber of staff and
retaining it is the hallmark of success. Building on the experience of MASAF 1, the
complement of staff - there are only two additions to the technical staff, an
engineer/quantity surveyor for the urban sector and an officer for the SSP - should
deliver in the plan period.
6. Information, Education and Communication. Total cost is US$ 1.0 million, of
which CSP, PWP, and SSP are: US$ 0.2; US$ 0.3; and US$ 0.1 respectively.
The Information, Education and Communication part of the proposed project is
intended to serve as an effective knowledge management tool that sensitizes
stakeholders regarding MASAF procedures and processes, identifies specific roles
and responsibilities, captures the project-related experiences of the various
stakeholders, distills the lessons learned and feeds this evolved knowledge base back
to the stakeholders to complete the project knowledge loop. At the same time, IEC
serves as an instrument to empower stakeholders, and more especially, project
communities, through recognizing and publicizing information about their role in
contributing to poverty alleviation. Thus, the MASAF II IEC strategy represents a
smooth transition from the strategy of the earlier project.
For both the CSP rural subprojects and the PWP component, the emphasis will be on
extending the reach (geographically to underserved areas and within served areas to sets
of stakeholders) and improving the quality of IEC interventions. However, for the urban
subprojects, which are a new feature of the CSP component, and for the SSP component,
the IEC cycle will begin with the sensitization process and then, as in the case of the
MASAF I CSP and PWP components, graduate into clarification and reporting on project
activities. The IEC strategy will build on the Lessons Learned from the CSP sensitization
process and pay careful attention to giving no opportunity for misinterpretation of the
project methodology by any set of stakeholders. Further, in a continuation of the strategy
under MASAF I, IEC initiatives will attempt to build strategic alliances at the district
level by recognizing and highlighting the work of the DCs, DECs, etc. The strategy will
focus critically on incorporating inputs from ZOs, PWPOs and SSP staff into the design
and implementation of the IEC strategy.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 36
Annex 3 - Estimated Project Costs
(in US$ millions)
Project Component                    Local      Foreign       Total
Community Subprojects              37.38        3.50         40.88
Public Works Program                10.02       0.47         10.49
Sponsored Subprojects               0.41        0.04          0.44
Capacity Enhancement and Studies     1.49       1.61          3.1
Administration                      5.7         0.3           6.01
Total Baseline Cost                  55.0         5.92        60.91
Physical Contingencies              3.44        0.37          3.81
Price Contingencies                10.31        1.11         11.42
Total Project Cost                   68.75        7.4         76.14



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 37
Annex 4 - Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis
Economic Rates of Return. MASAF is primarily demand driven. Under the
Community Subprojects component (CSP), representing about 70 percent of project
funds, communities identify and decide the type of project that is most needed in their
area. As rational economic actors, communities' choices will reflect those projects that
provide the greatest rate of return to their inputs of labor, time and materials. CSP
Communities in MASAF I undertook projects to construct primary schools, distance
education centers, and health clinics and to rehabilitate and create bore holes and rural
roads. Recent economic and sector work in Malawi confirms that this selection of
projects by beneficiaries provides very high economic rates of return (ERR). Rates
ranged from 15% in secondary education to 50% in the creation of bore holes (Table A7).
While the ERR for health has not been calculated, CSP construction of primary level
infrastructure (rural health clinics and posts) targets health interventions in the higher end
of the cost effectiveness spectrum (e.g. EPI, rehydration therapy, malaria treatment,
antenatal and delivery care) that primarily favor women and children and yield substantial
gains in life-years saved (World Development Report, 1993).
The Public Works Program (PWP) component, comprising nearly 20 percent of project
funds, is less demand driven than the CSP component. Under the PWP, district officials
utilize income and food security data to identify food deficient areas and design
employment generating schemes that will increase the demand for labor and will provide
income to food-poor households. PWP activities also provide a high economic rate of
return. Rural road rehabilitation, the major activity undertaken in PWP, increases
utilization rates and conveyance of commercial items to rural and underserved areas.
ERRs for DRIMP roads (which utilize the same technology and methods as the PWP),
were calculated to be as high as 26%.
Utilizing the above-mentioned economic rates of return, assigning an ERR of "O" where
ERRs are not available (health), and assuming that communities in MASAF II will follow
the same pattern of project selection as they have in MASAF I, produces an overall ERR
of 29% for MASAF II. 4
While a separate economic rate of return has not been calculated for the SSP component,
its economic justification is strong. The SSP will support disadvantaged groups such as
orphans, street children, people with AIDS (PWAs), the disabled, etc. The primary
objective would be to bring them into the mainstream of socio-economic activity as much
as possible and thereby reduce their dependency and reliance on other already poor
members of the extended household. This dual release of energies and the opportunity
Assigning an ERR of zero to health is done to provide consistency with the methodology used in
MASAF 1. Using the same general methodology, but using the new weights and updated sectoral
ERRs, allows a comparison of MASAF 11 weighted ERR (29%) to MASAF I (23%).



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                38
costs of resources hitherto tied-up has positive economic gains to recipients of the support
and the households relieved of the burden of supporting them socially and economically.
Table A - Economic Rates of Return to Sectors
ERR            Sectoral share of projects in MASAF I
(including both CSP and PWP)
Primary education                    28%                           44%
Secondary education (DECs)           15%                           6%
Health facilities (clinics)          N/A                           3%
Creation of bore holes               50%                           17%
Rural road rehabilitation            26%                           30%
Weighted ERR                         29%
Note/Sources: The weighted ERR refers only to the CSP and PWP components of the project which, together, constitute over 90% of
project funds. The ERR for education was obtainedfrom Annex 3 of the Staff Appraisal Report for the Malawi Primary Education
Project (December, 1995) andfollows the methodology developed by Psacharopoulos; The ERRfor bore holes and rural road
rehabilitation is from the 1997 Implementation Completion Report for the Malawi Infrastructure Project and are appropriate as both
MASAF and the Malawi Infrastructure Project utilize similar technologies and input costs.
Project benefits will be measured in a thorough and consistent manner in MASAF II.
Steps are already underway under MASAF I to identify and include an expanded list of
benefit indicators in the revised Management Information System. For example, PWP
has started to count private and commercial traffic on the roads before and after
rehabilitation as well as to measure household income and consumption of participants
before and after their involvement. The aim of these efforts is to have an MIS that
provides timely information for measuring the cost-benefit and future economic rate of
return of individual subprojects and of MASAF as a whole.
Least Cost Analysis. MASAF uses simple and appropriate technologies, involves
significant community participation, and utilizes local management structures and
contractors to plan and undertake civil works. As a result, the unit costs of MASAF
projects are generally much lower than traditionally managed, top-down projects. Initial
cost comparisons between MASAF subprojects and regular social infrastructure contracts
indicate that unit rates of MASAF funded works are about half the cost of commercially
contracted works. For boreholes, the unit cost difference is around 20% lower than
traditional projects. Monitoring and supervision costs were also significantly less in
MASAF subprojects as these activities are largely integrated into existing governing and
supervisory structures. Finally, community ownership and agreements to maintain
structures ensure that maintenance costs borne by Government are very low.
Poverty Targeting. CSP project coverage will be expanded in phases to reach the
poorest districts, and the poorest communities within each district. Poorest districts and
communities would be identified through a geographical targeting methodology using
available information on population, basic needs and existing access to services. A
resource allocation formula based on poverty and access indicators would be agreed
during MASAF's annual work plan, and would guide overall fund ceilings for
community subprojects for each district. Project appraisal criteria will give preference to
project proposals emanating from those identified as poorer and/or more vulnerable. A



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                      39
project menu, which lists examples of appropriate investments, has been prepared to
reflect: (i) indicators of poverty obtained through participatory assessment, and
(ii) priority needs of poor communities.
PWP projects are different to CSPs in that they are a supply driven safety net intervention
that provides self targeting temporary relief through cash income to food deficient
communities. In the process, PWPs create economic assets such as roads and bridges,
small dams and valley tanks as well as provide land improvement and environmental
protection through votive cultivation on field boundaries and afforestation. Thus, while
asset creating, the employment of PWPs generate cash income to the poor who register to
work at wage levels below or about equal to rural agricultural wage levels. The MASAF
I experience shows that demand for these works is often huge, a sign of lack of income
earning opportunities and large numbers of households and individuals that are
vulnerable.
Sustainability. During desk and field appraisal of subproject proposals, MASAF liaises
closely with sectoral ministries to ensure that the recurrent cost implications of its
projects are sustainable and within the sectoral framework. In the education and health
sectors, project appraisals involve the District Education Officer or District Health
Officer who assesses if sufficient teachers/nurses are in place and if the recurrent costs of
the proposed project are within Ministry targets. MASAF II will increase the visibility
and participation of sectoral ministry regional and district staff through regular fora that
will discuss and approve project selection prior to funding approval.
In addition to regular consultation, many features of MASAF's design minimize recurrent
costs. School construction, for example, rarely leads to additional teacher requirements,
but rather alleviates the severe overcrowding that characterizes the system. Borehole
creation also does not add to Government's recurrent costs as communities are trained to
maintain the boreholes and communities' ability to establish a contributory fund for
financing operation and maintenance costs are assessed at desk and field appraisal and are
one of the selection criteria. PWP rural road rehabilitation is itself largely a maintenance
activity and does not add to ongoing government costs. Finally, the SSP component will
require that NGOs absorb the recurrent costs of the project and this would be calculated
toward community's contribution.
Table B - Financial Summary (US$ million)
Estimated Costs             Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Total
Investment Costs- IDA        13.6      22.8       20.7       8.9       66.0
Investment Costs-Community    1.0       2.4        2.0       0.8        6.2
Recurrent Costs               0.7       1.3        1.3       0.6        3.9
Total Costs                  15.3      26.5       24.0      10.3       76.1



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                  40
Financial Analysis
Community participation is an integral feature of MASAF, generating and mobilizing
additional resources to meet project costs and creating a more sustainable environment
after project completion. Communities are expected to contribute a share of individual
subproject costs (Table C). Levels and timing vary by the type of subproject-- an
education project may require significant early contributions of materials and labor while
a water project may require subsequent contributions towards maintaining the project.
Projections indicate that the share of community contributions will reach more than US$
6 million over the length of the project. However, these projections likely underestimate
the value of community labor and future beneficiary assessments will attempt to more
accurately measure community labor contributions.
Table C - Community Financial Contribution ('000 US$)
IDA         Government     Community      Total Project
Cost
Project Costs        66,000          3,898          6,242          76,139
Share of Total       86.7%           5.1%           8.2%            100%
Project Costs
More importantly than the community's financial contribution, however, is the
philosophy of self-help and ownership that is developed throughout project identification
and implementation. The skills learnt by communities during the project to use and
account for funds, and to build, rehabilitate and maintain infrastructure lead to more
sustainable development. As such, it is expected that: (i) the productive life of the
communal asset will be longer than in the non-participatory planning case; and (ii) that
the recurrent cost burden on central and local governments will be lower than in the non-
participatory case. Annual technical and beneficiary assessments will be conducted
throughout the life of the project to determine the state of MASAF built infrastructure
and to develop a data base that will permit comparisons of costs to similar projects
constructed through the top-down traditional project approach.
Financial Management. In addition to the natural controls against abuse of public funds
that arise from operating a fund subject to public scrutiny, proven mechanisms for
monitoring disbursement of funds at community level have been put in place. An
appropriate accounting and auditing system exists under MASAF I. In addition to the
annual audit by the Auditor General's (AG) Office, six monthly private audits paid for
under MASAF I and commissioned on MASAF's behalf by the AG's office are carried
out routinely. These audits have been reviewed by the Bank and found to be sufficiently
rigorous. In addition, satisfactory financial management, accounting, internal controls
and audit systems, procedures and reporting mechanisms are in place under MASAF I
and will remain in use under MASAF II.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                         41
Annex 5 - Financial Summary
Component           IDA    Government    Community         Total         %
Contribution
Community Subprojects       42.6        2.2            6.3         51.1      67.1
Public Works Program        12.5        0.6            0.0         13.1      17.2
Sponsored Subproject        0.5         0.1            0.0          0.5       0.7
Capacity Enhancement        3.9         0.0            0.0          3.9       5.1
Incremental Operating Costs   6.5       1.0            0.0          7.5       9.9
Total                       66.0        3.9            6.3         76.1     100



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                42
Annex 6 - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Management. Procurement arrangements under MASAF II will utilize
the procedures established and the lessons learned under MASAF I. As in the preceding
credit, the exact mix of goods and services to be financed in the CSP component of the
credit will depend on the results of demand-driven subprojects identification. Project
Management Committees (PMCs) will take primary responsibility for procuring goods,
services and civil works, but will receive support from the Management Unit (MU). The
relationship and specific procurement responsibilities of the MU, zone offices and PMCs
will clearly be spelled out during the orientation and training that precedes each
subproject's implementation. Procurement monitoring and audit procedures will also
follow the guidelines established under MASAF I, and are described in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM), Accounting Manual and Community Subprojects
Handbook. The MU will be responsible for procurement of goods and services for the
public works, sponsored subprojects and capacity enhancement components of the
project. Implementation staff have been trained and will receive further training in IDA
procurement procedures; ongoing support will be provided from the World Bank
throughout the life of the project.
Several documents will guide procurement arrangements. MASAF will procure goods
and services in accordance with the "Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, " published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and
September 1997. Consultants providing services to the project would be hired in
accordance with the Bank's "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997. Finally, the MASAF II
Project Implementation Manual contains more detailed descriptions of procurement
procedures and their sequence within the project cycle. The Procurement methods
applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table 6A below and
described in the following paragraphs.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). An estimated US$150,000 and US$180,000
worth of computers and vehicles will be purchased, respectively, under the project.
However, their procurement will be on a replacement basis that will be spread throughout
the four years of the project and goods packages of more than US$100,000 are not
expected. Therefore, ICB procurement is not envisaged under MASAF II.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) shall be carried out for goods such as equipment,
furniture and supplies estimated to cost more than US$30,000 equivalent, and up to and
including US$ 1 00,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$430,000. NCB bidding documents for works and goods, currently being used by
other IDA projects and previously cleared by IDA, will be used.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 43
Community Participation. Under the CSP component, community contribution and
involvement will be encouraged. Communities will manage subprojects, hiring skilled
artisans and purchasing materials locally to ensure minimal delays and reduce
inefficiencies due to loss during transport and storage. Standard price lists for materials
will be maintained by the MU, updated every three to six months, and will be used by
communities as price ceilings to guide their procurement. Subprojects costing up to
US$50,000 equivalent per project and US$44.6 million equivalent in aggregate would be
implemented through self-help projects, which MASAF would contract out through
Project Management Committees (PMCs) to individuals, private contractors and
community-based agencies following procedures detailed in the PIM. Such
implementing agencies, selected on criteria established in the CSP Handbook, will use
community labor and will purchase goods or materials through methods prescribed in
their contract agreement signed with the community. Communities will hire contractors
of the required skill level, which predetermines their wage rates, and procure materials by
obtaining quotes from three suppliers, when available, and selecting the supplier with the
lowest cost who fulfills their requirements. MASAF will disburse funds to the
communities in tranches against certified completion. The SSP component will follow
similar procurement arrangements as the CSP component, with subprojects costing up to
US$10,000 equivalent per project and US$430,000 equivalent in aggregate implemented
through self help projects utilizing community participation procurement.
PWP labor intensive works estimated to cost US$50,000 or less per subproject contract
and US$12.8 million in aggregate would be implemented by public agencies through
labor contracts with local communities and through contracts with qualified local village
contractors selected-- to the extent possible-- on the basis of at least three quotations.
When insufficient qualified local contractors are available, public agencies may resort to
direct contracting with a local village contractor on the basis of prices periodically
published by MASAF.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for CSP and PWP of the project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $44,600,000 equivalent with
respect to CSP of the Project and $12,800,000 equivalent with respect to PWP of the
project, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Consultant Services. The project will finance consultant services, technical assistance,
workshops, and training activities to a total amount of US$4.2 million equivalent. It is
expected that the contracts for undertaking beneficiary assessments and some technical
studies will attract international consultant services while the remainder will be mostly
local. Contracts with firms for assignments of US$50,000 and above will be awarded



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                     44
through the Quality and Cost-Based (QCB) method of selection. Contracts with firms
below US$50,000 will be awarded through the Consultant Qualification (CQ) selection
method. Services of individual technical consultants and contractual technical specialists
will be procured under individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 - 5.3 of the "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers." The use of the sample letter for recruitment of consultants will be required.
National Shopping and Procurement through IAPSO. Prudent shopping or purchase
through the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office, for contracts estimated to
cost less than US$30,000 equivalent, up to an aggregated amount of US$ 600,000, may
be used for goods to include equipment, vehicles, furniture and supplies, and transport.
Table A - Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ICB      NCB       Community       Other" methods    N.B.F.2'   Total
Participation   acceptable to IDA
1. Community Subprojects                         44.6            3.0                 6.69     54.36
(42.42)         (3.0)                       (45.42)
2. Works: PWP                                    12.78            0.68               0.06     13.51
(12.14)         (0.66)                      (12.8)
3. Sponsored Subprojects                          0.43            0.13                         0.56
(0.41)         (0.12)                        (0.53)
4. Equipment, Furniture               0.4                         0.03                         0.43
and Supplies                      (0.4)                       (0.03)                       (0.43)
5. Consultant Services, Training,
Workshops and Studies under:
(a) CES                                                        3.87                         3.87
(3.87)                       (3.87)
(b) Other                                                      0.31                         0.31
(0.27)                       (0.27)
Incremental Oper. Costs                                           2.68               0.43      3.11
(2.68)                       (2.68)
Total                       0.0       0.4        57.87           10.69               7.17     76.14
IDA                                  (0.4)      (54.97)        (10.62)                       (66.0)
Notes: Numbers in parentheses refer to the amount financed by the International Development Association.
Under MASAF 1, initial stocks of vehicles, computers, and other goods were procured. Additional procurement of
these items under MASAF II will be on a replacement basis.
1/ Other includes Consultant Services, National Shopping and Operating Costs.
2/ N.B.F. includes contributions which will be made by communities such as bricks, labor or cash contributions,
and GOM's contribution in the form of salaries for supervisory staff, 10% in the first year and 15% in
subsequent years for the salaries for MASAF management unit staff, local operation and maintenance costs, and
15% of local costs for equipment, furniture and supplies.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                           45
Procurement Review Thresholds. The first two packages of goods procured through
NCB will be submitted to IDA for prior review. Existing standard bidding documents for
NCB will be used. Any exceptional extensions to NCB contracts for equipment and
goods raising the contract value to US$100,000 or above will be subject to prior review.
All contracts for Works above US$200,000 will be subject to prior review by IDA.
Contracts for consultant services of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or
more for individuals, and all sole source contracts and Terms of Reference regardless of
contract value, will be subject to prior review by IDA. Extensions to consulting contracts
for firms and individuals not originally subject to prior review will be subject to prior
review when such extensions will raise the contract values above US$100,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals. All NCB and consultant contracts with a value below the
thresholds established for prior review will be subject to ex-post review by IDA on a
sample basis. All contract documentation will be retained by the MU and made available
to IDA for ex-post review upon request. Reimbursement for goods procured through
National Shopping will be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Receipts and
other supporting documents for SOEs will be maintained on file in the MU and made
available to IDA for review during supervision missions.
Table B - Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(in US$ equivalent)
Contracts
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)     Procurement Method   Subject to
Prior Review
Community Subprojects  Subprojects less than US$50,000  Community            None
participation
Below US$30,000                 National Shopping     None
PWP Subprojects       Subprojects less than US$50,000  Community             None
participation
Below US$30,000                 National Shopping     None
Sponsored Subprojects    Subprojects less than US$10,000  Community         None
participation
Equipment, furniture and  US$30,000 - 100,000          NCB                   First Package
supplies
Below US$30,000                 National Shopping     None
Consultant Services,  US$100,000 and above for firms and   QCB              All
training, workshops and   US$50,000 and above for individuals
studies
Any amount                      Single Source         All
Below US$100,000 for firms,     CQ                    None
US$50,000 for individuals
N.B. All Terms of Reference other then those specified in the project Manuals will be subject to prior
review.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                      46
Disbursement
The Project will be implemented over a four year period, from October 1998 through
September 2002. Procurement will be completed by September 30, 2002 which will be
the completion date; March 31, 2003 will be the closing date. The proposed allocation of
the credit is shown in Table 6C. Reimbursements for community subprojects will be
made on evidence of disbursements from the MU to Project Management Committees;
SSP reimbursements will be made on evidence of disbursements from the MU to NGOs;
and PWP reimbursements will be made on evidence of direct transfers of funds to the
District Council accounts.
IDA will not finance taxes. To ensure this, IDA will only finance 95 percent of amounts
paid by MASAF under Community and Sponsored Subprojects, 95 percent of local
expenditures under PWP, 90 percent of local expenditures on equipment and supplies,
and 90 percent of local expenditure on incremental operating costs during the project's
first year and 85 percent in subsequent years. Communities and GOM will contribute
nearly 15 percent of total project costs. GOM's indirect contribution, which includes
salaries of technical staff performning desk and field appraisal as well as technical
supervision of PWP, is estimated at US$0.8 million equivalent per year over the life of
the project.
Table C - Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
1. Community Subprojects              40.9         95% of amounts paid by MASAF
2. PWP Subprojects                    11.5         100% of foreign expenditure and
95% of local expenditure
3. Sponsored Subprojects              0.5          95% of amounts paid by MASAF
4. Equipment, Furniture and Supplies   0.4         100%
5. Consultant Services, Training,      3.7         100%
Workshops and Studies
6. Incremental Operating Costs        2.4          90% of local expenditure in year one;
85% for subsequent years
Unallocated                           6.6
Total                                 66.0
To ensure that the availability of counterpart funding would not be a bottleneck to
implementation in MASAF I, GOM opened a Project Account with a Commercial Bank
where it deposited, on a quarterly basis, its contribution. Under MASAF I, this amounted
to US$170,000 per quarter. Responsibility for ensuring this contribution rested with the
MU and records were available for IDA review during implementation review missions.
This same system will be used in MASAF II. Estimated quarterly contributions from
Government in MASAF II will be US$240,000.
Incremental operating costs, projected to cost US$2.7 million, comprise those costs
necessary for the operation of the MU including, but not limited to: salaries, per diem,
benefits, office supplies, fuel and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance of equipment,



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                47
telephone and other communication charges, office rent and insurance, and other
administrative charges.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). All applications to withdraw proceeds from the
credit will be fully documented, except for: (a) expenditures of contracts with an
estimated value of US$500,000 each or less for civil works; (b) US$100,000 or less for
goods, consulting firms, training, workshops and studies; and (c) US$50,000 or less for
individual consultants and incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on the
basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the MU and will be available for
review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. Disbursement
and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook
(1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development
Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods
and services, the Government will open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover
part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the MU.
Authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$3 million, covering an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. The MU will be
responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of
expenditures should be paid through the Special Account.
Accounts And Audits. During negotiations agreement will be sought that as soon as
possible after the end of the Malawi financial year, but no later than six months after its
completion, GOM will, through the MU, present audit reports of the special accounts and
the project accounts with a separate opinion on the use of the special account and SOEs
(para. on covenants). The audits will be carried out by the Auditor General (AG). In
auditing the project accounts, special attention would be paid to verifying the reliability
of SOEs, and to the internal controls and procedures involved in the preparation of SOEs.
Audit reports should be produced for each component, covering the use of SOEs,
management of the special account and other matters. The audit report for the
community subprojects component shall include a review of the Project Management
Committee's performance on a sample basis. In view of the fact that the project would
continue to have a large number of accounts including those at the MU, zone and
community levels, and that these would need to be checked periodically, the agreements
under MASAF 1 that the AG will appoint private Audit firmns to carry our semi-annual
audits of will be continued. In addition, the following actions will strengthen
accountability for project funds: (a) maintenance of a strong Internal Audit Unit, (b)
continued support for twelve accounts assistants appointed at the Zone level to ensure
timely justification and maintenance of up-to-date books of accounts, (c) where
appropriate appointment by PMCs of project assistants to keep accurate records for them
on a part time basis to be paid out of the subproject funds, and (d) training of all members
of the PMCs on project management.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                48
Project accounts will be maintained by the MASAF MU since it is now administratively
autonomous. A Special Account will be opened for this project and maintained with a
commercial bank by GOM. The maximum balance in the Special Account will be
US$3.0 million, which will cover about 3 months of expenditures at full operation. With
the expenditure record under MASAF 1, there is no need to make the maximum initial
deposit lower than the maximum balance as is done for project implementing agencies
with no experience in management of Special Accounts.
Monitorable Indicators. MASAF is a demand-driven project and, as such, will be
monitored on a variety of indicators (see Annex 1A) using both quantitative and
qualitative measures. In addition to process indicators, which will be used for all four
components and the MU, it is expected that the management information system (MIS)
will routinely monitor project performance while the Capacity Enhancement and Studies
component will monitor the impact of not only MASAF interventions, but also activities
funded by donors, NGOs, as well as GOM. More detailed monitoring indicators are
included in the PIM, Chapter VII.
Reporting and Reviews. An annual report on project implementation will be prepared
by the Executive Director of MASAF MU no later than September 30, of each year for
the annual review. Contributions to the report will be made from the MIS and the CES.
MU will invite IDA, other interested donors, NGOs and Government agencies to an
annual review workshop to be held no later than November 30, of every year (beginning
in 1999 for the year 2000). The implementation review schedule is provided in Annex 9
The Executive Director of MASAF will prepare a consolidated report for submission to
the MASAF Board half yearly.
A Mid-Term Review will be held two years after project effectiveness or when 50 percent
of funds have been committed, whichever occurs first. For the mid-term review MASAF
will commission independent reviews of each component with funding from the CES
component. A report, summarizing the findings and recommendation of the review will
be prepared and submitted to IDA and other interested agencies before the mid-term
review. This report will highlight institutional and operational successes and failures of
MASAF as well as lessons for the implementation of projects at community level such as
the ones funded by MASAF.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                       49
Annex 7 - Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$000)
Actual FY97                                                      62,000.00
Planned FY98                                                    118,000.00
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  5 months             5 months
First Bank mission (identification)        08/01/1997            8/1/1998
Appraisal mission departure                06/12/1998            4/8/1998
Negotiations                               06/22/1998            7/31/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness              10/01/1998           10/01/1998
Prepared by: Malawi Social Action Fund-Management Unit, National Economic Council, GOM.
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant, Government of Japan (approx. US$500,000.00)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
N. Mugwagwa                             Task Team Leader
M. Salah                                Operations Officer
S. Jorgensen                            Specialist/Adviser in Social Action Projects
Alberto Harth                           Specialist/AGETIPS and Social Funds
R. Cubagee                              Economist
P.C. Mohan                              Communication Specialist
N. Kulemeka                             Economist
G. Raheem                               Information Technology Analyst



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                         50
Annex 8 - Documents in the Project File'
A. Project Implementation Plan
Government of Malawi documents:
1. PCD of GOM
2. Needs & Institutional Assessment for Poor Peri-urban Communities, TA & Local
Consultant Reports.
3. Legal & Policy Frame work
4. Safety Nets/Public Works Program
5. Community Subproject Evaluation
6. AGETIPS' Study
7. Environmental Assessment
8. Project Implementation Plan
9. Community Subproject Handbook Management Information Systems
10. Public Works Program Implementation Handbook
11. Community Project Management Handbook
12. Accounting Manual
13. Administration Manual
14. MASAF Orientation Handbook
15. Urban Subprojects Handbook
16. Technical Operation Manual - Construction of Building Structures Vol. 1
17. Technical Operation Manual - Bridge Construction, Vol. 2
18. Internal Audit Handbook
19. MIS Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank Documents:
1. PCD
2. Preparation Draft Aide Memoire, February 1- 21, 1998
3. Mid-Term Review of MASAF 1
4. Detailed Total Project Cost Table
C. Project Cycle & Schedule
Including electronic files



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                 51
Annex 9 - IDA Supervision Plan
The MASAF/MU will carry out routine supervision of implementation of the project and
will be supported in the process by the IDA team led by the Team Leader. Supervisory
functions include:
a) review of activities listed under the first tranche for CSP, PWP, SSP and wages
registers for the PWP, procurement records and disbursements including SOEs;
b) confirmation of adherence to the standard bidding documents for small works,
consultants and project contract documents;
c) review of annual implementation work plans;
d) review of the monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements;
e) preparation and submission of all project implementation annual progress reports;
f) arranging for and following up on annual audit reports of project accounts, SOEs
and management;
g) monitoring of routine implementation and of the key implementation indicators
agreed at negotiations;
h) preparation for and liaison with the IDA half-yearly supervision mission;
i) preparation for the Mid-Term Review of the project
In addition to the field supervision specified in Table A below, IDA staff will spend at
least 10 staff weeks each year reviewing and commenting on procurement, disbursement,
routine reports and annual audits and management reports. The workload is expected to
be high during the early years of project implementation. As this is the second project of
this type, and since MASAF I is on-going, strong support will be needed from the team.
Activities under SSP are experimental; the Mid-Term Review, planned for December
2000, will enable the team to assess physical, institutional, process and financial progress
against the initial targets agreed during negotiations. The outcome of review would be
the level of adjustment needed to the components' design for the project targets to be
achieved by the end of the project life. This estimate of adjustment will derive from
experience gained on the project.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                            52
Table A - IDA Supervision Plan
Approximate Date           Activity                          Staffing                   Weeks in Field
11/1998         Project Launch          Task Manager                                      2
Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
05/1999         Supervision             Task Manager                                      3
Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
11/1999         Annual Review           Task Manager                                      3
Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
Architect/Social Infrastructure
MIS
IEC Specialist
05/2000         Supervision             Task Manager                                      2
Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
11/2000         Midterm Review          Task Manager                                      3
Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
Financial Specialist
Architect/Social Infrastructure
IEC Specialist
05/2001         Supervision /           Task Manager                                      2
Annual Review          Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
11/2002         Supervision Mission     Task Manager                                      3
(PrepaTatory work for    Implement. Specialists (CSP,PWP,SSP)
Implementation          Financial Specialist
Completion Report      Architect/Social Infrastructure
(ICR)



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                      53
Table B - Summary of Training Services
Training             Number  Duration                 Description             Foreign   Person
of Staff     of                                         /local    days
Training
(days)
A. MASAF Staff
A.1 Management Unit and Zone       32        14      Study Tour                          Foreign      448
Staff                                I_I
Management Unit and Zone Staff     24         10     Conference & Workshops              Foreign      240
Al .1 Training of Senior Staff
Mid-Management Staff               15         5      Management Skills Development        Local        75
Mid-Management Staff               15         5      Strategic Planning                   Local        75
Mid-Management Staff               15          1     Environmental Impact Assessment      Local        15
Orientation
Mid-Management Staff               15         5      Computing Skills & Computerized      Local        75
Project Management
Mid-Management Staff               15         4      Photography & Video production       Local        60
Mid-Management Staff               15         5
Mid-Management Staff               15          5
A. 1.2 Technical & Support Staff   15          5     Information Technology               local        75
A.1.3 All MASAF Staff             167          3     Team Building                        Local       501
A.2 Zone Level Training
A.2.1 Project Officers             20          1     Orientation on MASAF II Procedure    Local        20
Project Officers                   20         5      Environmental Impact Assessment      Local       100
Processes
Project Officers                   20          5     Computing Skills and Project         Local        80
Tracking
Project Officers                   20         2      Photograph                           Local        32
Project Officers                   20         7      Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)  Local       112
Project Officers                   20         5      TOT (includes Pos at MU)             Local       100
Project Officers                   20        10      TFT (includes Pos at MU)             Local       200
A.2.2 Administrative Assistants    28         3      Computing                            Local        84
and Zone Accounts Assistants
Training
A.2.3 Technical Supervisors        27          1     Orientation of MASAF procedures
Training
27         5      Orientation of MASAF Technical       Local       135
Handbooks
B. Sector Ministries
B. 1 Desk Officers                 12          1     MASAF Orientation                    Local        12
B.2 Regional Staff (PWP)           20          1     MASAF Orientation                    Local        20
C. District Level
C. I DEC                          400         5      Orientation of MASAF II DEC          Local    2,000
4     Training on Environmental            Local     1,600
Assessment
C.2 Facilitators                  750         2      Orientation of Facilitator (Gov.     Local    1,500
ExtensionlNGO staft)
C.3 DEC Foremen                    27         5      Orientation on MASAF Technical       Local       135
Handbooks
D. Other Stakeholders
D.l Members of Parliament         200                Orientation on MASAF                 Local       200
D.2 Traditional Authorities       200          1     Orientation on MASAF                 Local       200
D.3 MASAF Board                    12          1     Orientation on MASAF                 Local        12



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                    54
E. Community Subprojects
E.1 PMC
1760 (construction projects)       5         4      Project Management Skills           Local   35,200
1515 (water) 3 boreholes)         10         5      Community-Based Management          Local  227,250
Training (water)
All Subprojects (375x5)         1875         1      Community-Based Environmental       Local   16,375
Management orientation
E.2 Minor Contractor            1760         1      Orientation and Capacity Building             1,760
(Management, Costing, Reporting,
etc.)
F. Public Works Program
F.l Sector                        52         2      Training in Technical Norms         Local      312
F.2 Foremen                      480         4      orientation on Works Management     Local    1,920
F.3 Contractors                  480         1      Capacity-Building (Management,      Local      480
Costing, reporting, etc.)
F.4 Treasurers                    27         3      Financial Management & MASAF        Local       81
Procedures
G. Sponsored Subprojects
G.1 SAs                           40         1      Orientation on MASAF and            Local       40
Component Procedures
G.2 SAs Accountants               40         1      MASAF Accounting Requirements       Local       40
G.3 Advisory Committee            15         1      Orientation on MASAF Procedures     Local       15
Table C - Summary of Technical Assistance
Activity                            Description                Foreign   Person   Person
/Local    days      days
Trainers  foreign
1. Trainer                    Orientation of MU & Zone Staff in EIA        Local               30
2. Trainer                     Orientation of DEC in EIA                   Local       -        72
3. Trainer                     Management Skills Development              Foreign      8        -
4. Trainer                     Strategic Planning                         Foreign      8
5. Trainer                     Team Building                              Foreign     14        -
6. Trainer                     Video Production & Photograph               Local       -        6
7. Computer Trainer/ Consultant  Computer Training, Computerized Proj. Mgmt.    Local           20
8. Consultant                  PRA
TOT                                                      
TFT
9. Consultant                  Training of Contractor (PWP)               Foreign     10        -
Training of Technical Supervisors          Foreign      8        -
Training of Sector Technical Supervisors (PWP)  Foreign  14      -
10. Consultant                Boreholes                                    Local       -        8
11. Consultant                Bridges                                      Local       -        8



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                   55
Table D - Summary of Studies
Foreign/      Person       Person
Local Trainers    days         days
Foreign      local
1. Management/Functional Review at MTR             Foreign           22
2. Bi-annual Audits External                       Local              -         450
3. Technical Review MTR                            Local              -          28
4. Beneficiary Assessment (annually for 4 years)   Local              -         240
5. Comparative Study on Livelihood in PWP Impact   Local              -         168
areas (annually for 4 years)
6. Evaluation of MASAF I upon proj. completion     Local              -          42
7. Study on Gender participation in MASAF at MTR   Local              -          28
8. Field Operations Efficiency Review (Internal to  Local             -         240
MASAF annually for 4 years)
Table E - Training and Technical Assistance (persondays)
Category               Item in        YI           Y2          Y3          Total
person
days
Training                         Trainees
Trainees
Technical Assistance              Local         52.6        52.6         52.6       158
Foreign       20.6         20.6        20.6         62



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                56
Annex 10 - Lessons Learned Under MASAF I and
Changes Between MASAF I and II
Overview of MASAF I
The Goverrnent of Malawi has recognized that they have created in MASAF an efficient
mechanism for creating and refurbishing the social and economic infrastructure. As of
September 17, 1998, US$29.4 million (52.6%) funds have been disbursed, and under the
Community Subprojects component alone, 1,097 projects covering the construction or
rehabilitation of schools, classrooms, rural health clinics, safe water supplies and other
urgently needed facilities are at various stages of implementation. As at July 31, 1998,
530 school blocks, 200 staff houses, 700 boreholes, a dispensary and community hall,
have been completed. In addition to this, the Public Works Program had transferred
income to more then seven thousand people of which two thousand or 27 percent are
women. This was achieved through the creation of temporary employment by funding
labor intensive activities, such as the rehabilitation and/or construction of economic
infrastructure, i.e. roads, bridges and small irrigation schemes. The success of the current
project on the input side can be measured by: (a) the CSP component being fully
committed by September 1997; and (b) the accelerated rate of disbursement which could
result in the project being fully disbursed by June 1999 three years ahead of schedule.
Mid-Term Review and Beneficiary Assessment of MASAF I
The mid-term review (MTR) of MASAF 1 in March, 1997 highlighted the following
specific recommendations to improve the project's effectiveness: (a) the need to ensure
strong Government policy to better manage the interface with other agencies at different
levels - national, sectoral, regional, district and community - as well as Government's
strong ownership of the program; (b) quality assurance, hence retaining a complement of
technical staff at Management Unit (MU) and zone level; (c) heightened sectoral
commitment to support the project activities as integral to their work programs by
sectoral personnel at all levels; (d) systematic addressing of the political dichotomy of the
project, its' benefits from strong political backing and support, and the potential of being
destroyed by political interference with its processes and procedures at whatever level;
and (e) operationally, the need to further rationalize approvals with the pace of project
completion, high approval rates do not necessarily translate into high CSP
implementation rates.
The Beneficiary Assessment (BA) conducted in April, 1997 also identified the following
weaknesses: inadequate information flows and poor coordination between key project
implementors (the implementors include MASAF/MU, DECs, ZOs and communities);
inadequate training on the part of many of the key project implementors; and late
disbursement of funds which is often caused by inability to provide complete work
justifications. These weaknesses have been taken into consideration in the design of the
implementation manuals of the proposed project. The BA also identified the following
strengths in the project: a hard working though lean force, the project MU has so far
withstood the voluminous workload, kept a low political influence in project
implementation, made effective use of the lean human and material resources, and always



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                     57
reached out to communities, used existing government structures at district level, and
maintained the ability to inspire and revamp the spirit of communities to initiate self help
activities. The above strengths will be consolidated and re-enforced in the proposed
project.
The following are lessons learned from the ongoing MASAF I
a) Community Subprojects
(i)   Demand Driven Principle. The underlying principle in the design of the CSP
component is that it acts as a demand-driven financing facility targeted at
community groups and not individuals or intermediary institutions. The
definition of a community is determined by the administrative or social
boundaries of villages in the immediate or distant surroundings of a particular
project depending on the type of project and the spread of the beneficiary
community. The CSP principles allow the prospective community to exercise
choice in the identification of their project and to plan and prepare for its
implementation using the available local skills and materials as a
demonstration of their commitment and felt-need for the project.
(ii) Facilitation and Community Participation. The degree of participation in
CSP projects is dependent on four factors: Severity of the problem,
organizational cohesiveness whether in rural or urban areas, the role of
facilitation and education and income. Projects in urban areas have faced a big
challenge in community mobilization, especially where project benefits do not
directly affect the welfare of an individual, for instance a road project as
contrasted with a water project. The CSP design allows communities to choose
facilitators in those aspects of the project cycle for which they need assistance.
Six main groups of facilitators have emerged, namely: politicians, government
officials, teachers/head teachers, traditional leaders, religious organizations and
individuals. What has transpired is that the chances of success for a particular
project will depend on who facilitates at the inception of the proposal and at the
election of the Community Project Committee (CPC). While politicians can be
helpful in mobilizing communities about MASAF and promoting a positive
attitude towards development, there is a need to sensitize them on the proper
direction of their support in MASAF II for effective community participation.
(iii) Up-front Community Contribution. The criteria for up-front community
contribution has met with problems in those parts of the country where the
natural environment does not allow the people to produce fire-baked bricks or
acquire materials such as river sand and stones for construction purposes. In
such places it has become difficult for these communities to apply for their first
choice projects that require substantial contribution in local materials, instead
they have ended up with projects such as boreholes which do not require much
material contribution. As a result, the use of alternative construction materials
like cement blocks have been introduced to ease off the problem.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                   58
(iv) Geographical Targeting. In order to address concerns regarding subprojects
targeting, MASAF II would pre-qualify project areas using geographical or
population concentration as a criterion for determining the allocation or approval
of CSP financing. Whereas this proposal might sound right, it should be noted
that predetermined allocation of moneys would contravene the principle of
demand-driven approach and run the risk of locking up project funds. MASAF I
has demonstrated that with appropriate outreach and communication systems,
communities are happy to determine their developmental choices and organize
for action in favor of those projects that will meet their needs.
(v) Managing the Demand. All things being equal, the principle of responding
according to community demand has merit as long as the parameters of the
demand are clearly defined. It is needful that the objectives of the proposed
social fund dovetail with the kinds of activities and organizational capacities that
locally exist to execute the works. MASAF I has empowerment and
sustainability as paramount goals in its design using community projects as
vehicles to that end. The project could not therefore operate as an " Emergency
Fund" as was commonly mistaken in the early stages of the project. The CSP
component in MASAF II will have to be clearly delineated in terms of the kinds
of projects communities can demand for and the priority of work, whether it is
rehabilitation or construction of new facilities, and the sectors in which to
concentrate.
(vi) Sectoral Constraints. While it is clear from the distribution of projects in
MASAF I that the education sector has the highest number of projects (see table
1; chart B), partly because of the free-primary education policy, it has also been
noted that sector policies and norms have hampered the uptake of projects in
other sectors. This has been the case mostly in the health sector where it is a
policy that no health centre can be located within 8 km of each other. Other than
staffing constraints, communities have not been able to appreciate any other
reason for this norm. Communities have cited cases where Government health
units are located within the 8 km radius of other services being run by either
district councils or the Christian Hospitals Association of Malawi (CHAM).
The experience in MASAF I has shown that oy using community participation,
it is possible to construct a full health centre and schools at a cost far below what
the Ministry would have paid using the conventional approach.
(vii) Water and Infrastructure. In the water sector, the problem is one of
inadequate technical supervisory capacity at the ministerial level and paucity of
hydro-geophysical survey and drilling capacity in the private sector to meet the
overwhelming demand for supply of portable water in the communities. The
Ministry of Water Development has so far assisted MASAF MU to supervise
drilling companies but this has not been adequate, as a result supervisory
services have been contracted out to the private sector. The construction of
access bridges in rural areas and certain urban areas has also faced the challenge
of new developments in the type of materials recommended to be used, i.e.
whether to use timber or concrete for the decks. Timber decks are being



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                  59
decommissioned because of the high maintenance costs in the long run despite
their being cost effective.
(viii) Civilian Police Units. The demand for support to the construction of civilian
police units continues to be popular in most parts of the country as a result of the
unusual increase in crime-rate in the rural areas giving rise to a sense of
insecurity. Like all other activities that are ordinarily done on community self-
help basis, police units in Malawi are regarded as social projects and the demand
for them is increasing. The Ministry of Home Affairs has the responsibility to
provide personnel and meet recurrent costs. There maybe a need to reconsider
supporting these under MASAF II.
(ix) Operational and Institutional Issues. With regard to operational and
institutional issues, the pace of implementation and quality of structures has
been generally satisfactory in spite of the institutional and logistical problems
experienced at different levels, i.e. the Community Level, Zone Level, District
Executive Committee (DEC) level and MU. Operationally, procedures for desk
appraisal, field appraisal and supervision have to be strengthened. Similarly,
training of the CPCs in accounting and book-keeping will have to be on a
continual basis. The justification process for replenishing community project
accounts has to be improved to avoid delays in project implementation and avert
friction over unmet contractual obligations. It has been the experience that a
rigorous and effective information system that responds in a clear, accurate and
timely manner to different levels of information needs is critical for the proper
management of a social fund project. Institutionally, it has been found that the
DEC lacks a sense of identity and mandate. Where the District Focus approach
is being piloted by the Government with assistance from the UNDP, the role and
responsibilities of the DEC are clear, while in the other districts the tendency has
been to associate DEC existence with the coming of MASAF. Indeed, it is
acknowledged that MASAF has provided DEC members with work to do, but
DECs' major constraint is that they cannot effectively exercise their sector
responsibilities because of inadequate budgetary support. As a result there is
low morale and motivation which invariably impacts negatively on the
implementation of the MASAF projects. Training and orientation of the DECs
in specific areas requiring their collaboration will therefore be imperative in
MASAF II.
b) Public Works Program
(i) The PWP component acts as a safety net which facilitates cash income transfers
to vulnerable households by generating temporary employment in selected poor
and/or food deficient program areas. The major objective of the PWP is to create
temporary employment opportunities through labor intensive activities and in the
process build sustainable productive assets for the communities.
(ii) Targeting. Under the present program the distribution of projects is top-down,
using the Vulnerability Assessment Mapping (VAM) data. A two step



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                60
geographical targeting is used where an Extension Planning Area (EPA) with
the highest poverty incidence is selected by MASAF MU using the VAM.
Within the EPA a locality is identified by the District Team in consultation with
the local leaders. At recruitment, deliberate effort has to be made to better target
women for employment in works since female-headed households (FHH) make
up a disproportionate share (50% of FHH are below 40th percentile) of the
poorest families. While the District team and most District Development
Committee members understand the targeting method using the VAM in
identifying EPAs, they have, however, requested that the information on the EPA
targeting should be made available to them for reconfirmation of the degree of
vulnerability and the choice of the targeted population in the locality. The
targeting approach of using vulnerability for selection has been challenged from
certain quarters demanding that the distribution should be proportionate, taking
into consideration the geographical location and population per district.
(iii) Collegial Management and Capacity. The collegial approach pools available
management resources at District level and distributes tasks according to
institutional strengths. The consultative nature of decision making processes
ensures accountability and transparency. The component is being implemented
by a District team comprising the District Commissioner, the Clerk of Council
and District Sectoral Ministry Staff e.g. District Forestry Officer, DRIMP
Supervisor, District Water Officer, Irrigation Officer etc. The team is
responsible for project preparation and execution. The assumption in the
collegial management was that the capacities were available in the three
institutions for transport, mobilization and technical support. The experience so
far has revealed that such capacities are inadequate and the team members resent
working on what they conceive as uncompensated work beyond their normal
responsibilities; hence supervision is a problem. The basic but essential
materials and financial resources are not available as anticipated at district level.
Consequently, consideration is being given to appoint the District Development
Officer (DDO) because he has a strong background and skills in community
development work to be part of the team when membership will be reconstituted
to include the DC, DDO and the relevant sector ministry staff.
(iv) Wages and Quick Disbursement. The project uses a rural minimum wage rate
which promotes a self targeting mechanism at individual level so that only the
very poor participate. The quick disbursement of the safety net has been
challenged, however, workers have not been paid on time because most of the
District Teams have not been able to prepare justifications in a timely manner to
replenish their bank accounts. These delays have resulted in workers receiving
wages late to buy inputs or food requirements during lean periods. To address
the problem, Zone Accounts Assistant have been recruited to strengthen financial
management at that level.
(v) Ownership Review Against Responsibility as a Safety Nets Activity. At the
community level the sense of ownership of road projects is lacking. The
community is not prepared to maintain the structural components of the roads,



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                61
therefore sustainability is questionable especially in view of the fact that the
communities in the targeted EPAs are very poor and they are also aware of free
riders, i.e. other road users from outside their community. At district level some
members of the district team have not embraced the program as part of their
work. There is no ownership and hence weak commitment to project work.
Roads, unlike other projects such as dams, valley tank construction and
establishment of woodlots where communities right from project identification
embrace issues of sustainability as being their own, do not engender the same
feelings from communities. This is due to the fact that communities are not able
to identify with the immediate benefits from the roads something they can do
with valley tanks and woodlots.
(vi) Diversification. (a) Projects: Experience has shown that road construction,
which is the main activity that is being carried out under PWP at present, is not
suitable throughout the year. During the rainy season there are excessive rains
causing washways, idle labor and inaccessibility for supervision. This is the
period when the workers need the food most but are unable to work sufficient
number of days. On the other hand, the period between September and
November is very dry and hot which makes it difficult to achieve the required
quality of road works, and yet this is the time people require the cash. This
leaves the period March to June when most people have food. In order to deal
with the situation there is a need to diversify PWP activities to include other
works like afforestation, land reclamation, construction of rainwater harvesting
structures and small scale irrigation. (b) Mode of Payment. Under MASAF I,
the PWP designed and experimented with two modes of payment - cash and
food. Where a combination of food and cash was used, there were problems in
the management of food distribution because several actors were involved. The
result was that often the food was delayed or not even delivered to the sites.
Nonetheless, the Beneficiary Assessment and the recent study has shown that the
workers would still prefer a combination of food/cash/inputs depending on the
time of the year. In November and December people would like to be paid in a
combination of cash and farm inputs; from January to March they would like
cash and food; while from April to October they prefer cash. There should be
consideration for diversification in mode of payment.
(vii) Sector Ministry Policy. The Ministry of Works and Supplies has introduced a
new policy on construction of bridges on designated roads where concrete decks
are recommended. This policy has implications on the proportion of wages to
the cost of the project. Adopting concrete decks would decrease the proportion
that goes to workers. The MASAF I PWP has implemented projects on the
designated roads. Since this policy will affect the type of road PWP can support,
diversification into other activities will be necessary.
(viii)Community Project Committee Involvement. Although the community is
included in the institutional framework of the PWP component, it is not involved
in the management process at the area level. The Community Project Committee
(CPC) lacked information on the project, this has resulted in a situation where



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                  62
both the CPC and the Community neither identify with the project nor own the
asset. This situation creates confrontation with the district teams and is
exacerbated by the lack of commitment by some of the district team members
who do not identify with the communities. To address this issue, CPCs are now
being invited to participate in project launch.
(ix) Policy Issues Affecting MASAF Implementation. The following problems
were also revealed during the Principal Secretaries' meeting on July 15, 1997 of
the MASAF project: (i) low accountability of staff at district level; (ii)
inconsistent processes, procedures, standards and costs among sectors and
donors; (iii) unclear and conflicting policies/positions of national agencies vis-a-
vis low income settlements (Water Boards, City councils, Central governments
and other utility providers) implementation capacity; (iv) and maintenance and
sustainability.
Other Developing Countries
In addition to the above, lessons learnt from other developing countries are incorporated
into this project. A project that took a similar approach to supporting community
subprojects was implemented in Bolivia (Emergency Social Fund Project). The lessons
from the Project Performance Audit Report have been incorporated in the design of this
project. These lessons include: (a) desirability of financing small, technologically simple
projects with a substantial community involvement, (b) the need to involve Government,
NGOs, and communities in subproject implementation, and (c) the need to attract high
caliber staff for the central implementing agency (the MU in this case). Lessons learned
from the Zambia Social Recovery Project (Credit 2273-ZA) and the European Union
(EU) funded Microprojects Programme in Zambia are also incorporated in this Project.
In an interim evaluation, the EU suggested that its program uses more refined evaluation
criteria, install a computer-based accounting system, and improve procurement
procedures to allow for larger supply contracts. The proposed project takes these
suggestions fully into account. The table below gives changes implemented and /or to be
incorporated in MASAF II as a result of lessons learned in MASAF I.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                63
Table A - Changes Implemented between MASAF 1 and II
Lessons Learned from MASAF I                       Changes Implemented/To Be Implemented             When Implemented
MASAF Functions and Governance Framework
Need for clarity on autonomy                            Project Implementation Manual (PM) will become official       MASAF II
Government Document outlining basic roles etc. of MASAF.
Official autonomy will not be sought as this would limit
MASAF's privileges as a public sector institution.
Only critical elements of PIM should be linked to the   Move operational details currently in annexes into separate   MASAF II
Development Credit Agreement (DCA)                      handbooks.
Disbursements from Bank cumbersome because of too small    Increase special account to enable the shift to few tranches of  MASAF II
Special Account                                         disbursements on subprojects and new annual cycle, which
will cause disbursements from MASAF to be more lumpy
Need for clarification of responsibility and accountability  Change composition of PSC to eliminate sectoral ministries  MASAF II
between Project Steering Committee (PSC) and MU. PSC are   and add more civil society and traditional leaders, change
not very active and often send substitutes. Subproject approval  function into that of a Board, that provides policy guidance
not effectively done by PSC.                            and reviews work programs, impact assessments and audits.
Approval of subprojects will be moved to the MU.
Explosive growth causes institutional strain             Team building exercises, functional review and compensation   MASAF II
review completed or ongoing. Increased training/induction
for new staff to ensure "corporate culture".
Audit frequency too high, frequent external audits cause  Limit audits to twice a year.                                MASAF 11
disruption and do not produce valuable information
Community Subproject
A poorly organized or informed Village Development      Project Management Committee (PMCs) are the main unit          MASAF I
Committees (VDCs) can inhibit project identification    responsible for project development, VDCs role is to support
and coordinate PMCs.
Information not accessible to all communities           Target district level orientation to Agricultural Development  MASAF II
Committee (ADCs) and traditional authorities.
Large number of field appraisals over stretched capacity  More stringent desk appraisals with Zone Officers aware of   MASAFII
strict limits within his/her zone
Cumbersome process leading to funding approvals at PSC level.  Final approval by Executive Director                    MASAF II



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                64
Table A - Changes Implemented between MASAF I and II (continued)
Lessons Learned from MASAF I                     Changes Implemented/To Be Implemented               When Implemented
Contractors not thoroughly informed of MASAF goals and   Contractor selected prior to pre-launch training and included   MASAF I and II
objectives                                           in orientation and training program
Pre-launch training period not sufficient to cover material.   Pre-launch training extended from 2 to 4 days  Remaining year of MASAF I
Accounts and record keeping apparently causing difficulty   Simplified bookkeeping manuals and orientation  MASAF II
for local communities.
Launch ceremony is an important public function to ensure   Zone Officer must coordinate and ensure broad participation   MASAF I
transparency and accountability.
Insufficient flow of funds to ensure smooth payments and    Increase initial tranche to 30% with subsequent tranches 40%, MASAF 11
work programme. Role of mid-term implementation review   20% and 10%.
in assessing tranches.
Expenditure justification not well done.             Initial justification review done at Zone Level by     MASAF II.
Administrative Assistant with Project Management
Committee (PMCs). PMCs under MASAF 11 will be assisted
by on site record clerks.
Technical supervisors were not hired by communities as  Technical supervisors contracted and employed by MASAF    MASAF I
envisaged in the original design.
An average of 4 months implementation delay against  Recruitment of Technical Supervisors at Zone level will  MASAF I and II
scheduled time.                                      increase project monitoring and reduce delays.
Public Works Program
Need a detailed EIA.                                 Checklist developed                                    1997 - subsequent to mid-term
review
Need targeted IEC                                    IEC strategy being formulated on basis of EIA studies  MASAF I
Workplan needs to be approved by Board               Workplan being developed                               MASAF 11
Community representatives need to be oriented at the  Involve community representatives for orientation at first  MASAFII
earliest appropriate stage                          launch
Need orientation of contractors and foremen          Build into PWP project process                         MASAF II
Need appropriate MIS form to capture lessons learned at  To be developed                                    MASAF 11
completion stage



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                65
Table A - Changes Implemented between MASAF 1 and II (continued)
Lessons Learned from MASAF I                     Changes Implemented/To Be Implemented               When Implemented
Improved PWP implementation needs Zonal Accountant  Factored into project needs                            MASAF Tl
Assistants
Impact assessment essential                          Capture economic status of workforce before and after  MASAF II
project; do traffic count on road before and after PWP
Information, Education and Communication
IEC is everybody's responsibility                   Ongoing orientation for MASAF staff, team approach      Ongoing under MASAF I
followed where each person responsible for IEC in "their"
component
IEC needs to move from sensitization to clarification of  Closer liaison with Zone Officers and emphasis on reporting   Following last BA of MASAF I
project processes and reporting/documentation of project    lessons learned in projects
experiences
Need more accurate information from MASAF for        Targeted training for facilitators, teaching the details of the  MASAF II
facilitators (e.g., communities burning bricks prior to project project processes
approval)
Need to disseminate information on completed projects, and  New MIS system will provide automatic information, include  MASAF II
celebrate completions                                information in newspaper and other materials. Develop
completion certificate.
Areas remain underserved                             Targeted IEC for such areas (language, different media  MASAF II
access, face-to-face IEC)
Environment and gender not represented adequately    Include stories, informnation on gender and environment in  Beginning MASAF I
various materials
Initial confusion between CSP and PWP (people       IEC introduced on PWP - not there in the beginning. Doing    Ongoing MASAF I
complaining why CSP work is not paid)                special IEC campaign on differences, now known.
Need to target NGOs and religious leaders            Target these groups to help them play a role as facilitators and  Final year of MASAF I and
help public image of MASAF                             MASAF II
Bookkeeping manuals are very complicated             Develop simple bookkeeping guidelines and training program   Guidelines under development,
MASAF II implementation
Need to monitor impact of IEC                        Need to be part of annual BAs, reader and listener surveys  Surveys in 1998, and planned
again under MASAF II



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                            66
Annex 11 - Studies and Findings for Preparation of MASAF II 6
Study Title        Date of Study               Objective                              Findings/Recommendation
1. Needs and Institutional  February     To determine the needs of the urban poor   This study indicated that MASAF must first decide whether
Assessment of Poor Peri-   1998        and peri-urban communities and how the   the physical building of social infrastructure is the most
Urban Communities                      current urban Institutional set-up responds  important objective or whether the CSP should put an equal
to their needs.                      emphasis on social mobilization. If the latter objective is
preferred and community empowerment becomes an equally
important goal, MASAF is probably the best equipped to help
achieve this goal.
2. Urban Legal and Policy  January 1998   To review the existing policy and     The study highlighted and recommended the following:
Framework                              regulatory framework in the urban and  a) Rural-urban migration is increasing and it is expected that
pen-urban areas in order to create an   by the turn of the century, the urbanization rate will have
enabling environment which would
facilitate the access of the urban poor to the    grown more than the existing 12 to 13%. The majority of
programs under MASAF 11                 the urban population (65%) live below the poverty line
which necessitates urgent policy initiatives to alleviate
urban poverty in Malawi.
b) The local Government system in Malawi is highly
centralized, government recognizes the need for
decentralization. A draft policy on decentralization is in
place as well as a new Local Government Bill. Existing
community level structures (including CDCs) will link
well with local Government structures. It is expected that
such arrangement will facilitate adoption of projects by
Councils and thereby ensure maintenance and
sustainability of MASAF projects.
c) Each local authority be encouraged to prepare Council
development plans which present a rational basis for
prioritization of development programs.
6 Also see project files



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                 67
Studies and Findings for Preparation of MASAF II
d) Local Authorities are charged with the responsibility of
providing socio-economic services such as education,
public health, roads, markets, waste management,
housing, street lighting etc. However, most local
authorities have limited finances to adequately provide
the required services. MASAF would be ideal to assist in
the provision of such infrastructure especially within the
deprived neighborhoods. CDCs should be encouraged to
assist in project identification and implementation by
facilitating community participation.
e) Central Government should explore ways of assisting
local authorities by paying grants in lieu of rates in order
to support local authorities financially. Such funds
should be targeted towards capital projects e.g. payment
of counterpart contribution on MASAF projects.
f) Sectoral Agencies are fundamentally concerned with the
quality of workmanship on infrastructure projects under
MASAF 1. It is obvious that in urban areas, public safety,
public health and aesthetics will be a must, any oversight
may lead to litigation by members of the public or local
authorities. It is therefore strongly recommended that
consultants and contractors be engaged on urban projects
to safeguard quality of products to be delivered and
guarantee public health and safety in accordance with
prevailing statutes.
g) Tender and contracting procedures for urban Subprojects
should follow MASAF guidelines
h) Employment in non-agriculture formal sector has
stagnated since late 1980s therefore the urban poor are
willing to work for low incomes.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                               68
Studies and Findings for Preparation of MASAF II
3. Safety Nets and Public   March 1998    To review and evaluate the MASAF PWP   Low programme ownership among government officials
Works Program                           and assess its impact on the target   serving the MASAF Safety Net Programme (that is, members
communities                           of the District Teams); the need for scaling up government
financial contributions towards defraying programme
operation expenses; and the need for a policy framework on
anti-poverty (especially chronic poverty) public works
programs.
4. A Comparative Review and  Feb. 1998     To assess institutional set-up of MASAF I   The study findings are:
Evaluation of Community                 CSP component and determine its        a) The performance of the CSP component is satisfactory.
Subprojects Component and               effectiveness and efficiency vis-A-vis other  Community empowerment and capacity building remain
its Impact on the Socio-                community based interventions. A further  major achievements of the project -- communities which
Economic Status of the                  objective is to assess impact of the      had never managed any project before are gaining
Beneficiaries.                          component in terms of the socio-economic  considerable experience through the CSP in terms of
status of beneficiary communities,       planning, budgeting, procurement. accounting,
supervision, and other management aspects.
b) Impact of the CSP Component. In the short term MASAF
assisted projects have created employment opportunities
and income generation. Employment of rural women is
particularly significant on construction sites as women
tend to spend most of their income on household needs.
Medium to long term benefits include community
empowerment and local capacity building for self
organization in the identification and management of
community based development initiatives, improved
educational water, and health services. Access roads and
bridges have also improved communication of
communities to and from social and economic centers.
c) Recommendations. The CSP delivery system requires
some re-alignment in order to make it more responsive to
community needs, including the justification process,
sectoral coverage, sustainability and gender issues,
contractors' fees, as well as skills of local artisans. The



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                            69
study also concluded that, with the positive social and
economic impact the CSP is generating on rural and peri-
urban communities, the CSP should go into the next phase
but with broader sector coverage than Phase 1.
5. Environmental Assessment  April 1998   Environmental Impact Assessment      The environmental impact assessment study has shown that
local communities are aware of the environmental
degradation in their respective areas but have few options to
minimize the negative effects. The study recommended the
following: environmental appraisal and impact monitoring
criteria be mainstreamed in the CSP and PWP; adoption of
alternative and innovative technologies to construction
activities; and promotion and support to projects that improve
natural resource management such as reforestation, soil
conservation, catchment area protection, improved waste
management and the establishment of community woodlots.
6. Management Information    April 1998   To provide MASAF with a tool to more  Early in its life, MASAF 1 focused on attracting the attention
Systems                                efficiently and effectively manage project   of the poor communities to encourage them to apply for
processes and procedures and evaluate  funding. Consequently, a large number of projects were
project performance.                  coming through the pipeline for appraisal and thereafter
supervision. As the operations of MASAF 1 expanded and its
To automate all project management    communications strategy took off, the need for monitoring of
processes and procedures to enable
MASAF staff to obtain quick access to  project progress and the efficiency and effectiveness of
information necessary for decision making. project operations became critical for the successful
implementation of the project.
A new comprehensive MIS would need to integrate both
information on progress of physical implementation and
financial management. Training of MU and 20 staff in MIS
is critical.
7. Institutional Development   March 1998    The objective of this study is to assess  The study highlighted the following observations and
and Management Review                  MASAF management and organizational   conclusions:
development needs; develop or strengthen   a) MASAF Management Unit (MU) is a desk based,
management systems in order to improve  centralized, hierarchical unit which is aloof and removed
project delivery capacity; recommend new  from daily operations of Zones. Proposals have been
management systems and necessary        tabled to help MU to be more service oriented and field



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                            70
events that can help to build a team based,  based in order to assist Zone operations to adequately
service orientated, matrix organization in  meet stakeholder needs and expectations. Staff and
readiness for MASAF II.                 community motivation, coaching and supervision should
be part of a new performance appraisal scheme. There is a
need for a broad based conflict resolution and grievance
handling mechanism for all MASAF staff.
b) MASAF's fast growth has brought with it performance
and management challenges that need immediate
attention. The job descriptions that were created when
staff were originally engaged no longer adequately capture
the full reality of current job responsibilities. The review
has suggested action steps that help to develop a staff
motivation plan; performance based management
supervision; a salary review; staff team building, and
motivation training for supervisors. All job descriptions
have either been up-graded, or revamped to adequately
describe new responsibilities and job loads for staff. A
new grading system and improved compensation package
have been suggested.
c) MASAF as a new organization has constant inflow of new
staff. The review is proposing a process based, ongoing
management development and staff team training program
that will boost public relations, and promote the
information, education, and communication functions of
MASAF to improve the organization's public image and
corporate culture. To strengthen management systems,
emphasis should be placed on implementing action steps
recommended on the grading system, improving staff
accountability relations, implementing and supervising
the new job descriptions.
d) MASAF's growth should be matched by its management
and project delivery capacity. This review has
recommendations on improving field operations,
justification process, the training function and project
quality control. This review has considered



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                                  71
recommending a full scale job analysis and salary award
review and has concluded that it is not yet time for such an
exercise because it is too expensive and premature. The
current review, training, and program planning activities
should be completed first and evaluated for their impact.
e) MASAF should pay attention to the political realities that
impact its operations. IEC and Public Relations should be
central oTganizing activities of all operations at various
levels on project and community interface.
8. Sponsored Subprojects     March 1998    The overall objective of this study is to  a) Most of the institutions visited under the study can be
assess NGO institutional capacities,      classified as "Private" organizations formed by middle
approaches in project implementation and  class or other individuals (s) to provide relief and welfare
financial accountability in order to     to the disadvantaged and vulnerable groups in the society.
determine their adequacy and inclusion    The study recommended that decisions to work with or
into MASAF 11 as intermediary            through these institutions should be based on the functions
organizations in addressing the needs of  they perform or are able to perform in society with regard
the disadvantaged and vulnerable groups.  to the target group.
Develop guidelines for selecting such  b) Most institutions visited are fairly young. In addition,
institutions for their inclusion into MASAF  their concepts and approaches in dealing with the
II bearing in mind MASAF's demand         disadvantaged and vulnerable groups are new to Malawi.
driven and community empowerment          This explains why there is still lack of institutional
principles.                               maturity and the newness of concepts and approaches
which leads to a situation of estrangement wit h regard to
acceptability by the community and public support for
their cause.
The study recommended that any consideration to
incorporate these institutions into MASAF II must ensure
that these institutions are assisted to mount an effective
IEC programme about themselves for a better
understanding and appreciation by the public about their
role.
c) All the institutions visited depend heavily upon donor
support for their development related programs or to
provide other types of services to their target populations.



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                              72
d) Although the capacities of the institutions visited are
seriously constrained in terms of personnel and equipment,
especially with Malawian organizations, there is a visible
commitment to work by the available staff. Thus, given
the right support they have a great potential to perform
well. The study recommended that any proposal to work
with or through such organizations should consider
Institutional Support Grant (ISG) to support activities such
as training, technical assistance and special consultancies
to improve overall management, financial management
and programme implementation skills.
e) Community empowerment through active engagements of
the beneficiary group is generally professed but not
practiced by all the institutions as expected. MASAF's
experience over the last eighteen months could re-orient
these institutions with respect to their approaches in
programme delivery. The study recommended that
MASAF's IEC campaign should have a special focus to
show that community empowerment is a possibility and
that it can be relied upon for effective and sustainable
development.
f) Institutions with Community Based Approach (CBA)
programs have registered positive impacts on their
beneficiaries and are showing signs for sustainability in the
long run. These institutions, therefore provide a good
opportunity for the Sponsored Subproject initiative
provided they are given orientation regarding MASAF's
guiding principle of Community Empowerment,
Participation, Transparency and Accountability through
delegated authority and direct funding.
g) The study recommended that institutions to benefit from
the SSP initiative should lay down clear beneficiary
selection procedures which would also include the
involvement of some reputable institutions and/or



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                                             73
responsible ministry.
h) The study recommended that only those institutions
registered under the laws of Malawi shall be considered
under MASAF II SSP component as intermediary
institutions. This will safeguard funds and other capital
investments made available by MASAF; it will also
protect beneficiary groups from undue exploitation.
9. "Agence d'Execution de   March 1998    A study tour by the Project Preparation  The AGETIPS approach is to design institutions or
Travaux d'Int6ret Public               Team to West Africa to study the      instruments to manage implementation of demand driven
Centre le Sous-emploi                  AGETIPs system of operation to sharpen    projects involving infrastructure development and
(AGETIPS)                              the urban component of the project.   rehabilitation in urban areas by utilizing the private sectors,
small and medium enterprises, development of a robust small
scale infrastructural enterprise and creation ofjobs. In its
pure form, this approach may or may not be suitable for
Malawi at this point in time.



Annex 12                                                                                           74
Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Malawi                                                             MOP Schedule D
IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits in the Operations Portfolio                                                    Generated: 09/18/98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    end actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                  IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 73
Active Loans
MW-PE-1648    IDA28533       1998       GOVT                            FISCAL RESTR&DERE                   0.00        2.40            0.00           2.26          .83       6.45
Mw-PE-1670    IDA30510       1998   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI                SECONDARY ED PROJECT                0.00       48.20            0.00          47.09          .81      0.00
MW-PE-1664     IDAN0250      1997   GOVERNMENT                          ENV. MANAGEMENT                     0.00       12.40            0.00          10.42          .20      0.00
MW-PE-1648    IDA28530       1996       GOVT                            FISCAL RESTRSDERE                   0.00     102.00             0.00           1.46          .83      6.45
MW-PE-1668    1DA28560       1996   GOVERNMENT                          SOCIAL ACTION FUND                  0.00       56.00            0.00          23.32       -3.80       0.00
MW-PE-42305   TDA28100       1996   GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI                PRIMARY EDtJCATION EM               0.00       22.50            0.00           8.10        8.49       0.00
MW-PE-1667    IDA27530       1995                                       NAT WATER DEV                       0.00       79.20            0.00          52.82       17.41       0.00
MW-PE-34489   IDA26960       1995   GOVT                                MALAWI RAILWAYS REST                0.00       16.16            0.00          13.49       14.74         .74
MW-PE-1657    IDA26240       1994   GOVT.                               INSTIT.DEV.II                       0.00       22.60            0.00          10.63        9.21       0.00
MW-PE-1660    IDA25140       1993   GOM                                 AGRIC SERVICES                      0.00       45.80            0.00          16.92       12.07       0.00
MW-PE-1677    IDA25130       1993                                       Rural Finl Svcs                     0.00       25.00            0.00           7.17        6.61       0.00
MW-PE-1636    IDA23790       1992   GOVT.                               LOCAL GOVT.                         0.00       24.00            0.00           9.94        6.25       0.00
MW-PE-1662    IDA23860        1992   GOVERNMENT                         POWER V                             0.00       55.00            0.00          28.02       29.81      12.11
MW-PE-1646    IDA22200        1991   GOVT.                              PHN SECTOR CREDIT                   0.00       55.50            0.00          22.25       25.00       0,00
MW-PE-1658    IDA22250        1991   GOVT                               F'ISHERIES DEV.                     0.00        8.80            0.00           2.79        2.68       0.00
Total                                                                                                       0.00     575.56             0.00         256.68      131.14      25.75
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   290.15            1,254.92             1,545.07
of which has been repaid:                    0.00              145.93               145.93
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   575.56            1,074.46             1,650.02
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                  .72                  .72
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                  .72                  .72
Total Undisbursed                 :               256.68                2.41               259.09
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                     Page I



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                                           75
Attachment 2
Annex 13 - Malawi at a Glance                                                   Page l of 2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Malawi   Africa  Income        Development dlamond'
Population mid-1997 (millions)                        10.3      596     3,236
GNP per capita 1997 (Atlas method, USS)               220       497       490                  Life expectancy
GNP 1997 (AUlas method, billions USS)                  2.3      296     1,597
Average annual grovth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.7       2.7       1.7
Labor force (%)                                        2.6       2.6      1.8    1 GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1990)                            per             PS              primary
capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (%of total population)                 13       32        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       43        52        63
Intant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              133        91        68
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              27                 43                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  54       45        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    43       44        34
Gross primary enrollment (% otschool-age population)    81       75       107              -Malawi
Male                                                 84        82       112
Female                                               77        67       102                  Low-incore group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
GDP (billions USS)                           0.67      1.2       2.3      2.4      EconomIc ratlos'
Gross domestic investment/GOP                26.3    12.3       12.2      12.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP            30.4    23.0       22.3     24.7               Openness of economy
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                     17.8    10.1        0.8      5.0
Gross national savings/GDP                   14.9      6.3      -1.5       3.0
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -6.0    -13.6       -9.5                        L
Interest payments/GDP                         1.3      3.1       1.2       12         .
Total debtVGDP                               44.6    98.0    100.0    104.9        Savings            - --   Investment
Total debt service/exports                    9.1    43.2       23.0      14.8
Present value of debtGDP                        ..      ..      52.8     51.8
Present value of debVexports                   ..       ..    274.0    242.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.5      3.3      9.8       5.0      4.5               -Malawi
GNPpercapita                        -0.8      0.6      8.9       2.5      2.1
Exports of goods and services        3.2      3,7    14.5       12.6      5.8         i          Low-income group
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997 
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                  37.0    38.9       33.4      32.0     30 -
Industry                                     17.5    19.4       15.6     15.9      20
Manufacturing                               11.2    13.3      12.2      12.5      10
Services                                     40.0    31.9       44.4     48.0
-10 -                         'A    9
Private consumption                          68.1    70.1       84.7     75.8    -20
General government consumpton                14.1    19.7       14.5     19.2    -30
Imports of goods and services                38.9    25.1       33.6     32.1                    GDI    --GDP
197646  1987-97      1996      1997     -      -- -------                       -
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                   1.1      3.0      37.1      -1.1     40
Industry                                      1.9      3.2       2.8      5.2      30
Manufacturing                                3.0     5.5      -1.4       5.5     20.
Services                                      3.2      3.4      -1.4     17.2
10
Private consumption                           1.4      5.9      22.0      4.7    ;
General govemment consumption                 7.0    -1.0    -12.8       41.6    .10                 90                97
Gross domestic investment                    -7.1    -3.7        8.9     12.8      20
Imports of goods and services                -2.9      3.9      37.3      6.9
Gross national product                        2.4      3.5      11.7       5.2                 Eopons     0 Imports
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
9/21/98



Malawi Second Social Action Fund Project                                                     ___                           76
Attachment 2
Malawi at a Glance                                                         Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976      1986      1996       1997
Domestic prices(% change)                                                                 Inflation (%)
Consumer prices (end of year)                                         6.7       15.2    i
Consumer prices (average)                          ..114.0           37.7        9.1    90
Implicit GDP deflator                           10.0       13.2      43 3        9.7    60
40
Government finance                                                                       20
(% of GDP)                                                                                0
Current revenue                                   ..       21.8      16.8       16.4             92    93    94    95    90    97
Current budget balance                            ..       -2.5      -3.0       -6.3                     GDP def   -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -12.7        -7.6      -12.3
TRADE
1976      1986      1996       1997
(millions US$)                                                                           Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                               ..       248       481        556    832
Tobacco                                          -       135        300        340    694
Tea                                              ..        38        26         66                 U
Manufactures                                     ..        ..        ..555
Total imports (cif)                               ..       257       624        652    416
Food                                             ..    2    52   53  277 1                              Irlil I
Fuel and energy                                  ..       32         31         32    139       '
Capital goods                                    ..       74        197       213       0 L-.
Export price index (1987=100)                                        113        119          91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Import price index (1987=100)                                        138        130                   aExports      mimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         ..         ..        82        92
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976      1986      1996       1997
(millions US$)                                                                           Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    189       271       515        604      0                               .<  -
Imports of goods and services                    249       296       778        786                    : e
Resource balance                                 -60       -25       -262      -182      -s . 
Net income                                       -10       -61        -44       -41
Net income                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10      a
Net current transfers                             ..        44         -8        -9               
Current account balance,                                                                -15
before official capital transfers                ..      -71       -315       -232
-20
Financing items (net)                             ..        49       424        179
Changes in net reserves                           36        22       -109        53      25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)               26        42       222        163
Conversion rate (local/US$)                      0.9        1.9      15.3       16.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976      1986      1996       1997
(millions US$)                                                                           Composition of total debt,1997 (mill. USS)
Total debtoutstanding and disbursed              299      1,158     2,311      2,566
IBRD                                             0        85        42         34
IDA                                             74       422     1,346      1,559                     AG3400
F. 2
Totaldebtservice                                  18       119        120         91           E.299
IBRD                                             0        11        13         11
IDA                                              1         5        18         20
Composition of net resource flows                                                          D 381
Official grants                                                     97         83
Official creditors                              29       111       121         76   I                                  B: 1346
Private creditors                               20       -32         -4        -3
Foreign direct investment                       10                  30         25            C 1
Portfolio equity                                 0
World Bank program
Commitments                                      .           *A - IBRD                                               E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   12        87       141         87      a - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                             0         5        17         17      C-IMF                         G-Short-term
Net flows                                       12        82       124         70
Interest payments                                1        11        14         14
Net transfers                                   12        72       110         56
7/28/98



IBRD 27747R
32'                                               34'                                               36,
T. D., Es 5.1~t.
ZONE OFFICES (12)
o~<  }keng s \7tpa,  OZONE BOUNDARIES
KABONGA()  ?)    f-         -     PRINCIPAL ROADS
MALAWI                                           n                                         RIVERS
o  TOWNS
SECOND MALAWI                                                             hj \ .                      DISTRICT CAPITALS
SOCIAL ACTION  FUND                                                         L 1t                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
(MASAF   II)                     ,Ktowo                                                  - -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
COMMUNITY SUBJECTS:                               V               L                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ZONES, DISTRICTS AND                                                          I
PLACEMENT OF ZONE OFFICE2S                                                                                TANZANIA
*     * Mzimlce D        i             T'
12'                                                             /                                                                                    2 <
>   f ~_*  ! rrt   s0 ~             20  40  60  80  1 00
/   (, (  Chuluo  8    -:  '  "X;,g20                            ~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS   
ZAMBIA                           j                           ;N                           MOZAMBIQUE
'  n rt ~ - ' D     LiLONGW   /
T. Noc-k
Loke,         lke
_3                                                                                      m,ombe        Chiuta
RWANDA                                                                                    Ba KENYA    !3$ L1A  la k 
REPUBLIC OF    BURUNDI   'w MOZAMBIQO E                                                                           Macbiago  (
CONGO                                    .gi.ga)                                                   S   ,@gfi          gClw
Cr NGO S X                 TANZANIA                                                       J y                   Zombo.21AAs
I,,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~6 (Ih 
ANGOLA  z' r _; Jt'N=- 6,                                                                \ 9 Chikwowo     tuceno      UANJIj 16-
ZAMBIA        -N, 'dMOZAMBI.UE
This map was produced by the
-06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                      Map Design Unit of The Worldl Bank.
ZIMBABWE                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominations
-  '-I                                                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA/~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~this map do not imply, on the part of
R                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bonk Group, any judigment
Br OTSWANA                                                                                                           o )  n the legal status of any territory, or
A                                           N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~san(e  any endorsement or acceptance of
SOUTH                                                                                               such boundaries.
AFRICA                                                      34,                                              36'
JUNE 1998



