Report No 646a IND
Appraisal of Agricultural Research FILE COPY
and Extension Project
Indonesia
April 8, 1975
General Agriculture
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Internatonal Bank for Reconstucuon and Development
Internationatl Development Assocatton



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =        Rupiah (Rp) 415
Rp 1                     US$0..002
Rp 1,000,000             US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton = 1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)  = 29.37 inches           = 3.28 feet   = 1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)         2              = 10,O00 m2   = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km )              = 100 ha       = 0.39 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS
AETE      -    Agency for (Agricultural) Education, Trainin*   and Extension
ARD             Agency for (Agricultural) Research and Development
BAPPENAS  =    National Planning Agency
BIMAS     =    Mass Guidance Program for Self-Sufficiency in Rice and PalawJija
Crops
BPPB      =    Estate Crops Research Institute, Bogor
BPPM      =    Estate Crops Research Institute, Medan (formerly RISPA=Research
Institute of the Sumatran Planters Association)
CSIRO           Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization
CRIA      =    Central Research Institute for Agriculture
GOI       -    Government of Indonesia
IPB       =    Agricultural University, Bogor
IRRI      =    International Rice Research Institute
LIPI      =    Indonesian Institute of Sciences
H         =    Million
NIC             National (Agricultural) Information Center
PNP       =    State-Owned Estate Enterprise
PTP         =  State-owned Estate Corporation operating under tne Commercial
Code
USAID       =  United States Agency for International Development
GLOSSARY
Palawija    =  Field Crops other than Paddy
Sungei      =  River
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT APPRAISAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...... ....................         i -  ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......**. ...*...    ....................        1
A.   Project Genesis ....     ................. ......        1
B.  Previous Credits         2............................    2
II.   BACKGROUND ...................                                2
A.   Agriculture in the Indonesian Economy ........           2
B.   Present Status of Agricultural Research .....            4
C.   Present Status of Agricultural Extension  ....           7
III.   THE PROJECT       9.................................. ....    9
A.   General Description .....9.............. .....           9
B.  Detailed Features .....................                 10
C.   Cost Estimates .    ........................ ......     12
D.   Financing . .... ...............................        14
E.   Disbursement and Flow of Funds        ..............    15
F.   Procurement and Audit ......       .................    15
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................. ........      16
A.   Project Control and Operation      ...............      16
B.   Staffing .............                                  19
C.   Technical Assistance ........................           20
D.   Fellowships             ............                    21
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............           22
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS ....... o.......... 9&o*ooo#9.......         24
Thiis report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Indonesia
in March 1974, comprising Messrs W. P. Panton, J.A.M. Loup, (Bank) and A.H.
Moseman, D. Shoesmith (consultants), and on data in the IRI Research Insti-
tute, Inc. preparation report. Messers Panton and Shoesmith returned to
Ird&nesia in September-October to complete the appraisal. The mission was
greatly assisted by Bank Resident Mission representatives.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.  The Agricultural Economy
2. Presidential Decrees on Departmental Organization
3. IMinistry of Agriculture Organization (Charts 1-3)
4. Organization of Agricultural Research
5. Research Personnel Grades and Salaries
6. National Research Program for Rice
7. National Research Program for Palawija Crops
8. National Research Program for Highland Vegetables
9. National Research Program for Rubber
10. National and Regional Agricultural Information Program
11. Terms of Reference for Chief Research Advisor
12. Terms of Reference for Financial Administrator and Equipment
Procurement Specialist
13. Terms of Reference for Research Program Advisors and Research
Specialists
14. Terms of Reference for Agricultural Extension Advisor and
Extension Specialists
15. Terms of Reference for Fellowship Awards
16. Fellowships Program
17. Civil Works Program
18. Project Cost and Disbursement
19. Economic Benefits and Justification
MAP
Indonesia, Showing Project Research and Information Centers
in relation to Rainfall. (No. 11429)



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURA4 RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
SUMMARY AND OONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed six year project is designed to upgrade agricultural
research capability in commodities of major importanco to the Indonesian
agricultural sector. It is also designed to strengthen the agricultural
extension service and thereby ensure that the rosults of research are made
av4i1able to and utilized bY the farmers. The project would support a reor-
ganized research and extension system recently introduced by the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) through provision of improved facilities and of fellow-
ship programs and consultant specialist staff.  Considerable emphasis is
given to the strengthening of research and extension capabilities in the
agre-acologic regions, in order to focus the efforts of the research and
extension personnel on the specific problems of the different farming zones.
iie       The project would strengthen productionr-oriented research programs
for four commodity groups of importance to Indonesia, namely rice, field or
palawija crops (princIpally maige, soybean, sorghum, and cassava), highland
vegetables, and rubbor. The programs would be carried out principally at
four centors on carefully chosen representative sites within the main regions
of crop concentration. A National and nine regional agricultural information
centers would be establi8hed to facilitate the assembly and distribution of
information of practical or economic sIgnificance emanating from the research
programs and other sources.
iii.      About 170 Indonesianl graduate scientists would he provided with
fellowships for treiping, either abroad or in Indonesia, for periods varying
frow a few months to 4 yegrs, About 20 of these fellowships would be for
parvonnel engaged in research programs other than those supported directly
through the project. Provision has also been made for about 76 manyears of
higlay qualified consultant research and extension specialists for periods
varyiug from a few weeks to 4 years, who would compensate for the current
scarcity of Indonesian personnel with the requisite training and experience
neeessary to support the research and extension programs under the project.
kv.       Total project costs are estimated at US$46.6M (Rp 19.3 billion),
mith1- ebout 46X foreigp exchange component. Bank finan9ing would be on the
ais4 of foreign exchange costs. Civil works contracts for the research
'avi :gnformation centers would be awarded on the basis of international
com.atitive bidding in the case of the larger research centers, while the
aomaller contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive b.idding
-Avertised locally, and with no restriction on bidding by foreign con-
tractors, in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank.  Research and information equipment would be procured through
prasant shopping. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) would contract with
an .rganization or organizations with appropriate international experience
for the recruitment, administration and servicing of the consultant research
arid extension personnel and for the administration of the fellowships pro-
grams.



- ii -
v.        The specific research and extension components of the project
would be implemented within the context of a major institutional reform
of the Ministry of Agriculture which transfers responsibilities for re-
search and extension from the five directorates general of the Ministry
to two new agencies, the Agency for Research and Development (ARD) and
the Agency-for Education, Training and Extension (AETE) respectively.
vi.       The reorganization of extension services within AETE will complete
a reorganization which commenced with the establishment of an Agency for
Education and Training, supported by IDA Credit 288 - Agricultural Education.
The creation of an additional bureau, for extension, within this agency will
achieve the necessary organizational structure, and the support provided for
agricultural information centers through the project will pave the way for
further Bank support now being considered for extension at the provincial
and farm levels.
vii.      Investment decisions in agricultural research are justified
mainly by the need to establish an adequate national research organization
capable of developing or adapting the technology required for the fullest
development of Indonesia's agricultural resources. The size of the project
strikes a balance between the size of the task, the present research capa-
bility and the speed with which it can be effectively expanded through con-
sultant assistance and training programs. Quantification of project bene-
fits is difficult in view of the uncertainties inherent in research.
Nevertheless, experience has demonstrated that properly executed research
can give very satisfactory, even spectacular, rates of return. Leaving
aside the possibilities for revolutionary discoveries, there are strong
grounds for believing that, by concentrating available research resources
on a few important commodities, and programming the investigations towards
the successful adaptation in Indonesia of discoveries that have proved
successful in other countries, a favorable rate of return will be assured.
The project has as its objective an improvement in conditions for all
Indonesian farmers (between 15 and 18M), their families and employees.
Its ultimate success will be measured in terms of increased production and
the rate and extent to which improved production techniques and systems are
taken up by the farmers, and especially the smaller farmers, who depend
heavily on the production of commodities selected for improved research
through the project.
ix.       Since 1969 the Bank Group has provided funds for 20 agricultural
projects totalling US$391.6M, (4 have been to public sector estates; 6 for
irrigation rehabilitation; and 10 for a variety of projects including fertil-
izers; seeds; smallholder rubber; smallholder tea; sugar industry rehabili-
tation; beef cattle; agricultural education and fisheries). These projects,
many of which concern rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure, are sig-
nificantly improving production conditions. This project would complement
many of these earlier projects by supplying improved inputs such as seeds,
planting materials, and packages of practices adapted to both large and small
scale farming operations.



- iii -
xo        Subject to appropriate assurances, the project is suitable for a
Banrd Loan of US$21.5M for a term of 25 years including 8iX years grace and
with the principal disbursed over a six year period. The borrower would be
the government Qf Indonesia.






INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Project Genesis
1.01      In recent years the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has been concerned
about the effectiveness of its agricultural research and extension activities
and the contribution they make towards improving the agricultural sector of
the economy.  A major constraint has been the lack of production-oriented
agricultural research based on improved technology, which in turn has limited
the usefulness of the extension services for supplying sound practical infor-
mation and materials designed to profitably increase production.
1^O2      In 1969 the GOI, with assistance from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), established an Agricultural Research Survey
Team to assess agricultural research resources and make recommendations for
their strengthening. The team recommended the setting up of a national agri-
cultural research organization formed by grouping the various central research
iListitutes into one body. Such an organization would be better able to launch
and support multidisciplinary research programs in major crop and commodity
areaLS, decentralize agrilultural research in the regions and provinces accord-
4Uag to their need, forge stronger links between research, education and exten-
sn and build a well-trained, well-paid cadre of fully-supported scientists.
The recommendations, approved in principle by GOI, proved difficult
to inmplement. These difficulties led to GOI requesting the Bank Group to
assist in devising a suitable national organizational and administrative
structure and in determining whether a project suitable for Bank Group sup-
port could be identified. A Bank mission accordingly visited Indonesia to-
wards the end of 1972. On the basis of the interest shown by GOI an IRI
Research Institute Inc. preparation team proceeded to Jakarta in July, 1973,
followed by a Bank appraisal mission in March 1974 and a smaller follow-up
appraisal mission in September 1974.
1.04      Several important steps were taken by GOI during this period which
confirm that the need for reorganizing agricultural research and extension
was clearly appreciated.  Substantial institutional reforms have been ini-
tiated to provide conditions for developing a viable agricultural research
anid extension system oriented towards accelerating the growth of the agri-
cultural sector.
1.05      GOI has appointed a new cabinet level Minister of State  for Re-
search with inter-ministerial responsibility to bring about administrative
and financial reform of research in the various ministries. His approval
is required of all ministries research budgets prior to National Planning
Agency (BAPPENAS) approval.



2~~~~~~~~~
1.06      On August 26, 1974 two Presidential Decrees (Annex 2) which
authorize a basic organizational reform of GOI ministries, were ratified.
These decrees directed, among other things, the establishment of an Agency
for Research and Development (ARD) and an Agency for Education, Training
and Extension (AETE) within the Ministry of Agriculture. The remainder of
GOI fiscal 1974/75 was a period of transition during which the agency heads,
each with a nucleus of senior staff, were appointed, and made preparations
for the transfer of research and extension responsibilities from the direc-
torates general to the new agencies. The heads of ARD and AETE assumed full
control for all GOI ordinary and development budget financed operations in
their areas of responsibility with effect from April 1, 1975, on the commence-
ment of fiscal 1975/76.
B. Previous Credits
1.07      The Bank Group has made 37 credits and 6 loans to Indonesia, total-
ling US$561.8M and US$317.5M respectively. Twenty projects totalling
US$391.6M, were for agriculture. Four were for rubber, oil palm and tea
rehabilitation and development in the Government estate sector (DY 1969, 70,
71 and 72). Other credits were for: irrigation rehabilitation (FY 1969,
70, 71, 72, 74 and 75); fertilizer production (FY 1970 and 75); fisheries
(PY 1971 and 74); seeds (FY 1971); agricultural education (FY 1972); beef
cattle development (FY 1973); smallholder and private estate tea (FY 1973);
smallholder rubber (FY 1973); sugar industry rehabilitation (FY 1973).
II.  BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in the Indonesian EconomY
2.01      Agriculture accounts for about half the gross national product
of Indonesia (Annex 1). The sector contributes about half the foreign
exchange earnings and provides two-thirds of the employment. Most farmers
are smallholders with about 70% of the farms less than one hectare in size
and averaging only 0.6 to 0.7 for Java, Madura and Bali. These three islands
contain more than 80% of Indonesia's 120 million population, which accounts
for the high population density of 565 persons per km2 (1971 figures).
2.02      Indonesia requires increased agricultural productivity to meet
continually expanding domestic requirements and to improve foreign exchange
earnings through exports. GOI recognizes this need and has launched a major
effort to increase production of paddy, the most important food crop (8.5M
ha) which presently accounts for 50% of the value of agricultural production.
With the aid of the GOI Bimas program (a mass guidance program for self suf-
ficiency in foodstuffs) which includes credit incentives and technological



-3-
and extension support to rice producers, production is estimated to have in-
creased at an average of 4.4% annually between 1968-73. National yield aver-
age is presently around 2 ton/ha (1973) which is low compared with Malaysia
(2.5 ton/ha) and Australia (more than 5 ton/ha).
2.03      The other field crops, called palawija crops in Indonesian because
of t1neir rotational relationship with paddy, have not kept pace with paddy
and ia some instances a decline in production has occurred. The emphasis
on paddy through the BIMAS program has caused a shift in land use from other
fiel6 crops into paddy particularly on densely populated Java. Price in-
creases in some of these second crops including soybean and groundnut, as
well as livestock products, coconut and coconut oil in rural markets reflect
the failure of production to keep pace with demand. In order to encourage
production a new BIMAS program was implemented in the 1973/74 planting sear
son to provide support for maize, soybean and groundnut.
2.04      Maize covers the second largest area of land (about 2.6M ha).  The
low yields (about 1.0 ton/ha (1971) compared with 5.5 ton/ha in the USA)
indicate the need for substantial inputs of improved technology to increase
productivity.  Other food crops which occupy large areas are cassava (1.5M
ha in 1971), fruits and vegetables (estimated at 1.2M ha), and soybean (0.6
M ha). East Java is the main maize area with about one million hectares
compared to 500,000 ha in Central Java and 350,000 ha in South Sulawesi.
Maize is considered to have a good export potential, with some sources
forecasting exports of one million ton in 1980.  Sorghum is not grown ex-
tensively at present but prospects are promising particularly in the sparsely
populated outer islands.
2.05      There is need to emphasize increased production of maize, oilseeds,
casszva, pulses and sorghum for dry season cropping to achieve more effective
water use. Although maize is used mainly for human consumption it could, with
cassa.a, sorghum and soybean, be used as a source of feed for livestock par-
ticularly if plans for a substantial poultry industry materialize.  Soybean
coulcI also meet some of the increased world demand for feed grains and oils.
Prcdufction of soybean is expected to increase to one million tons by 1980 of
which 200,000 to 400,000 might be exported. There is also a need to strengthen
suppOrt for some traditionally produced crops (sugar, tea, rubber, oil palm,
live3tock and coconut) and for other highly promising commodities (forestry
produzts, fisheries).
2.06      Rudber accounts for 10% of the value of production and is second
to pE.dy in importance. It is a major foreign exchange earner accounting
for F3ome 55% of the total value of agricultural exports in 1970.  Roughly
two-thirds of rubber production is in the hands of smallholders with aver-
age yields of 0.33 ton/ha compared to 0.47 ton/ha on estates. The environ-
ment, particularly in Sumatra and Kalimantan, is very favorable for growing
rubber yet Indonesia is second in production to neighboring Malaysia, a much
smaller country, where smallholder and estate yields average 0.56 and 0.93
ton/ha respectively. In 1970 US$213.4 million was received for export rubber



- 4 -
yet output projections indicate a decline from 30% of world production to 20%
in 1980. This suggests the need for an intensive effort in replanting and
improved cultivation practices to bring about increased production particu-
larly of the smallholders.
B. Present Status of Agricultural Research
2.07      Agricultural research is carried out mainly within the Ministry
of Agriculture. Until recently (see para 1.06) fifteen institutes came
directly under the five directorates general, while three PNP/PTP research
units were indirectly controlled by the Directorate General for Estate
Crops.   Additional support for agricultural research comes from the Univer-
sities, the Indonesian Institute for Science (LIPI) and private growers.
Funds for research are provided principally from the GOI ordinary and devel-
opment budget, supplemented by cess funds for certain tree crops. 1/
2.08      Support is also received from approximately 17 foreign donors who
provide assistance to some 16 research organizations. There has been little
coordination of this support and in certain instances there is duplication
of effort. The foreign donors provide assistance to nine of the 15 Ministry
of Agriculture Research Institutes, three PNP/PTP supported research centers
and to at least three Universities. Data are incomplete, but it is estimated
that the total outside support since 1968 exceeds US$20 million equivalent.
Specific programs supported by foreign donors include rice (IDA Credit 246-
IND, U.S.AID/Ford Foundation, Japan, Netherlands); maize and soybean (IDA
Credit 246-IND); rubber (IDA Credit 194-IND, UNDP/FA0, Germany); oil palm
(IDA Credit 194, Germany); animal bacterial and viral diseases (Australia);
animal research (Australia); fisheries (Netherlands, UNDP, France, Japan);
tea (IDA Credit 259-IND, Netherlands); sugar (IDA Credit 405-IND); and plant
protection and horticulture (Netherlands).
2.09      GOI and the Government of Australia have recently approved proposals
for a ten year project to set up an Animal Research Institute at Bogor for
research in animal breeding and selection, nutrition, and diseases on chick-
ens, ducks, goats, sheep, cattle and buffaloes. The senior research staff
and the officer in charge for at least seven years would be provided by the
Australian Government during which time Indonesians will receive on-job-train-
ing or be trained in Australia through fellowships under the Colombo plan.
1/   Cess is paid on rubber, palm oil, copra, kapok, tea, coffee, tobacco
and quinine. They are collected by a Cess Council which uses these
resources mainly to finance rural infrastructure improvements and
agricultural projects in the main production regions of the several
crops.  In addition, the Cess Council finances, partly or totally,
three agricultural research institutes two of which are principally
concerned with research on rubber, and one on tea and cinchona.



-5-
Investment is estimated at US$14.2 million. There is also a UNDP/FAO pro-
posal pending for a coconut industry development project which has a major
technology compoaent comprising a tall-dwarf hybrid breeding program and
associated research including performance trials, production and processing
methods and intercropping, at an estimated cost of US$2.8M.
2.10      IDA has provided project related assistance for research since 1969
which amounts to about US$4.1 million. It was recognized that such support
was needed to effectively assist production increases in rice, maize, sorghum,
soybean, rubber, oil palm, tea, sugar, livestock and beef cattle, since at
the time these projects were initiated, it would have been premature to pro-
vide for a comprehensive research and extension project.
2.11      Food crops research has until recently been the sole responsibil-
ity of the Directorate General of Agriculture in three research institutes
(Annex 4, Table 1). The Central Research Institute for Agriculture (CRIA)
is the most important and largely concentrates on rice research. Six for-
eign donors are providing assistance to CRIA for rice research and although
it is generally recognized that better coordination is needed, these cooper-
ative efforts have provided Indonesia with promising paddy varieties. Fur-
thermore, it is the most production-oriented food research program in
Indonesia, being purposefully designed towards increasing the rice produc-
tivity of the farmers. Specialists provided by International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI) under contract with USAID, Ford Foundation, Netherlands
Government and IDA are helping to develop the capability of Indonesian
scientists. Much less attention has been given to research on other food
crops including maize, sorghum, cassava and soybean. A program which bene-
fits from Netherlands Government assistance is underway on highland vegeta-
bles research (A&=ex 8).
2,12      Research on estate crops is carried out by several different agen-
cies. The Directorate General of Estate Crops has until recently controlled
three institutes responsible for research on rubber, oil palm, tea, coffee,
cocoa and cinchona. It also controlled an Institute for Industrial Crops
responsible for research on coconut, tobacco, fiber crops, oil crops, essen-
tial oils and spices. The Directorate General of Estate Crops is also indi-
rectly responsible for a number of PNP/PTP's which support research on estate
crops including rubber, oil palm, sugar and tea.  A limited amount of research
is also done by privately-owned rubber and oil palm plantations, usually
oriented to their own needs.
2.13      Research on most other agricultural comodities has been largely
neglectel. There is little relevant livestock production research with most
attention being given to vaccine production. Currently, outside donors are
supporting the two animal disease institutes, and very substantial support
is forthcoming for a new animal research institute (see para 2.09). Budget-
ary support for forestry research has been very small in the past, even though
the forestry staff appear to be a dedicated group eager to undertake more
relevant research. Plans for improving fisheries research with bilateral
assistance have been drawn up and if they materialize there would appear
little need for additional outside support.



-6-
2.14      Several of the research institutes within the Ministry of Agricul-
ture have been in existence for many years and some of their past contribu-
tions to tropical agricultural research during the early twentieth century
have been of international significance. Inadequate operating budgets, low
salaries, and inadequate training of staff in recent years have seriously
reduced the quality and quantity of research. Very little production-oriented
research designed to benefit the farmers has been undertaken. Of approximately
400 graduate staff at all research institutes, about 100 hold advanced degrees,
of which only 13 hold Ph.D.'s. Many of the research institutes are more in-
volved in providing services and carrying out regulatory functions rather
than conducting useful research.
2.15      Most of the professional staff at the research institutes have
received their undergraduate education at one of two major agricultural
universities. The most important is the Institute Pertanian Bogor (IPB)
which is entirely devoted to agriculture. It has a student enrollment of
about 2,000 and turns out 150 to 180 graduates annually with Ir degrees
(Indonesian equivalent to B.Sc) after a six year course. It has six facul-
ties which include Agriculture, Veterinary Medicine, Animal Husbandry, Fish-
eries, Forestry, and Mechanization and Processing. The professional staff
numbers 442 and it has the greatest number of Ph.D.'s at one location in
Indonesia (78). The other major university, Gadja Mada, is located at
Jogjakarta in Central Java and has 17 other faculties besides agriculture.
The faculty group of agricultural sciences has 6 faculties which include
Agriculture, Forestry, Animal Husbandry, Agricultural Engineering, Veteri-
nary Medicine and Biology. It has well over 1,000 students and turns out
more than 100 graduates annually after 6 years of training. Both these
agricultural faculties are being strengthened with outside support from
USAID, the U.S. Midwest Consortium of Universities and the Rockefeller
Foundation. There are other regional agricultural colleges but the grad-
uates must go to IPB or Gadja Mada University for the last two years to
receive the Ir degree. Most of the graduates from these universities are
absorbed into the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.16      The sources of research funds for staff compensation and for opera-
ting and capital budgets differed among the five Directorates General. Thus
the Directorates General of Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries
received all their research funds from budgetary appropriations. The Direc-
torate General of Estate Crops received part of its research funds from bud-
getary appropriations and part from a cess on export crops. Accordingly,
the research staffs of the estate crops institutes received higher salaries
and had more operating funds.
2.17      The equivalent of about Rp 2.52 billion (US$ 6.08 million) was pro-
vided to the Ministry's five Directorates General for research in 1973/74.
Individual Directorate budgets for research ranged from Rp 126 million
(US$303,000) for fisheries to Rp 1,000 million (US$2,410,000) for agricul-
ture. Expressed as a percentage of total budget, funds allocated for re-
search varied from 11% in the Directorate General of Fisheries to 64% in the
Directorate General of Estate Crops. Total Ministry of Agriculture research



-7-
funds amounted ,o about 0.014% 1/ of the value of agricultural production
(Annex 4, Table 2).  The proportion of annual research budget available per
professional researcher is higher in the PNP/PTP research centers than in
the Ministry of Agriculture Research Institutes. In 1974 it was a respecta-
ble US$52,200 equivalent at the Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station but only
US$19,000 equivalent for CRIA (Annex 4, Table 3). Funds available per re-
searcher at the universities are negligible. Some research talent is being
lost to Malaysia where salaries are about two or three times higher than
those currently earned in comparable research appointments in Indonesia.
For GOI fiscal 1973/74 about Rp 1.54 billion (US$3.73 M) was provided to
the institutes now being regrouped under ARD. The recently announced total
budget for fiscal 1975/76 for these same institutes atounts to Rp 5.98 bil-
lion (US$14.42 M), equivalent to a 300% increase in two years.
2.18      Except for research staff in the Directorate General of Estate
Crops, all research workers within the Ministry of Agriculture receive a
salary related to level of education and according to stepwise grade levels
established for all government employees.  A 1974 presidential decree increased
the salary of all civil servants with effect from April 1, 1974. On this
occasion an advantage was given to research workers and a few other favored
categories including judicial officials and some teachers whose salaries were
increased more than that of other civil servants (Annex 5). An additional
increase, applicable to all government servants, was granted on January 1,
1975. These salary rates are supplemented by "honoraria" the level of which
has varied between institutes and between projects to which individuals may
be assignedef An important move towards harmonizing salaries and other allow-
ances within ARD and raising them to a level sufficient to attract and retain
high quality professional staff has resulted from the recent approval of
monthly honoraria levels for fiscal 1975/76 between Rp 75,000 (US$180) and
Rp 30,000 (US$72) per month according to grade. As a result, commencing
April 1, 1975 t:he monthly take-home pay for scientific staff will vary from
a high of about Rp 170,000 (US$410) for senior scientists to a low of
Rp 609000 (US$145) for assistant scientists. These rates are a consider-
able improvement on those existing at appraisal and have helped considerably
to narrow the gap between government scientific staff and those with equiv-
alent qualifications in the private sector.
C.  Present Status of Agricultural Extension
2.19      Each of the five Directorates General had their separate agricul-
tural extension service up to the end of GOI fiscal year 1975. This occa-
sionally led to extension workers representing as many as three different
directorates contacting the same farmers.   From the provincial level down-
ward through the district (kabupaten), the sub-district (kecamatan) and the
1/   Compared to a worldwide average of 0.874% for developed and 0.259%
for developing countries; for Southeast Asia, the average is 0.24%.



-8-
village (desa) level the extension workers are primarily funded by local
government but received overall direction from the national directorates
general extension staff.
2.20      The largest directorate of extension was in the Directorate General
of Agriculture. They were primarily concerned with operating small demonstra-
tion farms of about 3 ha involving 10 to 20 farmers, demonstrating techniques
recommended on the basis of small field trials carried out by the Directorate
of Techniques, which was responsible for testing out research findings in
multilocation trials with cooperative farms of 0.1 to 0.5 ha size. The
Directorate of Production then had the responsibility of propagating the
improved techniques, as determined by the Directorate of Techniques and of
Extension, on a larger scale with farmers in areas of 300 ha.
2.21      The Directorate of Extension was also involved with farmer train-
ing and provision of short courses at more than 200 rural extension centers
throughout the country. Until very recently, no university trained exten-
sionists were located at the district or sub-district level or at the rural
extension centers. The education level of the 13,000 extension workers is
low with some 55% having elementary school (6 years) education or less in
1970 (Annex 10, Table 5). Salaries, which are geared to education levels,
are also low.
2.22      In the past many extension workers at the sub-district and village
levels spent more time collecting data on crop production and performing
other regulatory or administrative tasks than in providing crop-oriented
production services to farmers. Many of these services are gradually being
taken over by credit agency staff providing credit for fertilizers, seeds
and pesticides.
2.23      The extension services are involved in the BIMAS program for in-
creasing paddy and palawija crop production. In 1973/74 it was responsible
for the distribution of Rp 11 billion (US$26.5 M) in credit through credit
agencies to small farmers. Extension workers assist in the program by
teaching farmers how best to use the package of materials and practices.
Agricultural university students have also been used for the same purpose.
2.24      Government has recognized the need to upgrade the capability of
its extension workers and the Agricultural Education Project (IDA Credit
288) is establishing training centers for this purpose. This project is
providing support, inter alia, for 13 agricultural in-service training
centers and one Agricultural Training Institute. These training centers
and institute have been under the direction of the recently formed Agency
for Education and Training with the Ministry of Agriculture, now renamed
the AETE following the issuance of Presidential Decrees 44/74 and 45/74
(Annex 2).



-9-
III. THE PROJECT
A.  General.  escription
3.01      The project would strerngthen national production-oriented agricul-
tural research programs in commodities of importance to Indonesia. It would
also assist with the transfer and uptake of research information by producers
through the establishment of agricultural information centers. Four commodity
group research programs would receive support through:
(a) training of Indonesian scientists both locally and abroad;
(b) provision of foreign specialists on short and longer-term
assignments; and
(c) construction and equipment of improved research facilities
at carefully chosen representative sites.
To provide an appropriate organizational structure for strengthening research
capability and efficiency, an Agency for Research and Development (ARD) has
been established within the Ministry of Agriculture under a Governing Board
chaired by the Minister. This Agency, with a headquarters now being construc-
ted near Jakarta, is responsible for all GOI ordinary and development-funded
research activities within the Ministry of Agriculture. The Head of ARD
is also responsible for the cess funded agricultural research institutes
through his chairmanship of an Executive Committee of the Governing Board.
In order to ensure that the results of production-oriented agricultural
research are conveyed to farmers, a national and nine regional information
centers would be established to assemble and communicate information of
practical or economic significance by audio-visual means. These centers
would be established within a second new agency, the Agency for Education,
Training and Extension (AETE) also with headquarters near Jaklarta. Improved
linkage between research and the farmers would be accomplished by the loca-
tion of subject matter specialists at each research center who would be
responsible for assembling research findings into packages of practices
suitable for extension purposes and passing these on to the extension serv-
ice through regular contacts, including participation in extension training.
3.02      The project would train about 170 Indonesians abroad and in
Indonesian higher training institutions. Foreign specialists for periods
varying from a few weeks up to four years (total 76.5 manyears) would also
be provided. Total project costs, disbursed over five years, would be
US$46.6 of which US$21.5 would be the foreign exchange component (para 3.19
and Annex 18, Table 2).
3.03      The Head of ARD would have overall control of all Ministry of
Agriculture research programs; coordinate aid from bi-lateral and international
sources; and be responsible for policies affecting research personnel and
staffing.



- 10 -
B. Detailed Features
Crop Research Programs
3.04     I1ational production-oriented crop research programs would be
developed for the following crops:
(a)  Rice, based at an expanded center to be developed
at Sukamandi, West Java, jointly with (b);
(b)  Palawija Crops, primarily maize, sorghum, soybean,
and cassava based at a joint research center at
Sukamandi, West Java;
(c)  Highland vegetables, primarily potato, tomato,
European cabbage, and highland bean, based at an
expanded research center at Margahayu near Bandung,
West Java; and
(d) Rubbers, based at a new research center to be developed
at Sungei Putih estate, North Sumatra, which will be
developed as the main experimental plantation.
3.05      An outline of each research program is given in Annexes 6 to 9.
Building and equipment needs are shown separately in Annex 17. Each research
program would be staffed by a well balanced team of technical personnel. Ex-
isting Ministry of Agriculture research staff will provide the nucleus estab-
lishments, while other personnel recruited principally from Indonesian agri-
cultural universities will supply additional manpower for the project.
3.06      The directors of each of these research programs and the majority
of the staff, including all professional staff, would be based at the
corresponding research centers to be constructed under the project, but
smaller groups of senior and junior technical personnel would be based at
regional stations, also controlled by the program directors. Several of
these regional stations have already been identified and the remainder will
be selected from the large number of existing stations and other land hold-
ings now under the control of the several institutes which have been re-
grouped into ARD.
3.07      The locations for the national centers and regional stations have
been determined on the basis of their situation in relation to the main pro-
duction areas of particular crops, with proximity to educational, medical
and other amenities being an important secondary consideration. Great care
has been taken to ensure that the sites selected for the three centers are
well suited and representative in terms of topographical and soil charac-
teristics for the crops included in the programs.  Special attention would
be given to amenity improvement where existing facilities are poor, espe-
cially at Sukamandi which is a small town where improved educational and
health services and recreational facilities commensurate with the reasonable



- 11 -
aspirations of the professional staffs and their families must be provided,
preferably within the nearby National Seeds Corporation (NSC) compound.  Land
at all proposed centers and stations belon4,s to GOI, so that no problems of
site acquisition should arise, although transfers of title from other GOI
agencies to ARD or AETE would be necessary in some cases and assurances were
given that these would be carried out expeditiously.
3.08      The four commodity groups were selected because of their importance
to the national economy and the need to strengthen research efforts in these
areas. All these commodities involve primarily smallholder operations. Other
comm dities such as oil palm, coconut, livestock, sugar, tea, forestry and
fisheries are receiving or are expected to receive outside support (see paras
2.08 through 2.10).
Research Objectives and Linkage wfth International Research Centers
3.09      Major research objectives proposed are provided in Annexes 6
through 9. Tie-ins with international cesearch centers such as Interna-
tional Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines, Centro Interna-
cional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (CIMMYT) in Mexico for maize,
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT)
in India for sorghum, Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT)
in Coloibia and the International Development Research Center (IDRC) in
Canada for cassava, the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center
(AVRDC) in Taiwan for soybean, tomato and potato, and Centro Internacional
de la Papa (CIP) in Peru for potato will be fostered for training, research
information and materials.
Agricultural Information Centers
3.10      In order that the results of production-oriented agricultural
research of economic significance reach the largest numbers of farmers,
the project would provide for the establishment of a national and nine
regional agricultural information centers to assemble and propagate infor-
mation of practical and economic significance accruing from research and
other sources by all audio-visual means. The location of each center is
indicated below.
Province/Region                Location
National                       Ciawi, near Bogor
East Java                      Wonocolo, near Surabaya
Central Java                   Ungaran, near Semarang
West Java                      Kayuambon, near Bandung
West Sumatra                   Bukittinggi, near Padang
North Sumatra                  Tanjung Morawa, near Medan
Lampung                        Tanjungkarang
South Sulawesi                 Maros, near Ujungpandang
South Kalimantan               Banjarbaru
West Nusa Tenggara             Lingsar, near Mataram



- 12 -
3.11      Details of the program, priorities, and staffing requirements
are given in Annex 10. Building and equipment needs are given in Annex 17.
The National Information Center (NIC) which would be a part of the National
Institute for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension would be situ-
ated at Ciawi near Bogor since the most extensive agricultural library, the
greatest concentration of agricultural research organizations, and the fore-
most agricultural university in Indonesia are to be found in this city. This
concentration of facilities provides the most suitable location for gathering
information, both local and international, for distribution purposes.
3.12      The regional centers would be constructed in close proximity to
related facilities of the Ministry engaged in extension, training, or re-
search activities, mainly at the provincial level. Site acquisition will
not be a problem as the land requirement for each center, which is less
than 2 ha, can be met in alI cases on available GOI land adjoining train-
ing centers or related extension complexes.
Extension Objectives
3.13      The primary function of the agricultural information centers would
be to prepare and distribute audio-visual aid materials for use by extension
workers in production accelerating programs. Such materials would include
radio scripts and tapes, movie films, film strips and slides, posters,
pamphlets, news stories and press releases in a wide range of native ver-
naculars.
C. Cost Estimates
3.14      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
Rp 19.3 billion (US$46.6 million) of which 46.3% would be the foreign
exchange component. Details, which are summarized below, may be noted
in Annexes 6 to 10, 17 and 18. The agricultural research component
accounts for about 80% of total cost and the agricultural information
component about 20%. Together the capital inputs (buildings, equipment
and vehicles) make up 50% of the total project cost; the technical serv-
ices make up another 25%; and the land acquisition and incremental estab-
lishment cost amount to 25%. Establishment costs comprise operating costs
for personnel, maintenance and non-durable goods.
3.15      Capital inputs cost estimates are based on information obtained in
Indonesia and experience in operating international research centers. The
costs for buildings, services and utilities, housing, research and informa-
tion centers equipment were estimated on the basis of recent cost levels in
Indonesia given by the Ministry of Public Works and architects and quantity
surveyors from the private sector. The nature and extent of existing facil-
ities have also been taken into account.  The estimates for furniture, farm
development, field equipment and vehicles reflect similar experiences in
international research centers. A breakdown of these costs is shown in
Annex 17.



- 13 -
3.16      Estimates for the costs of technical services is based on inter-
national experience with professional level specialists and fellowship
training. Some flexibility has been allowed for in the case of consultant
research specialists and fellowships to be engaged in the research programs,
and the numbers assigned to each center are intended to be indicative only
(Annex 6 to 10 and 16). This flexibility is necessary because the require-
ments of the research programs for specialists and fellowships can only be
firmed up when the Indonesian staff has been reviewed by the new ARD man-
agement with a view to its most effective deployment among the programs.
Technical services include provision for in-service training courses on
research methods and management, and English language, to be conducted
within ARD for all senior staff with the help of a small number of consult-
ant specialists. Satisfactory completion of certain of these courses would
be a prequalification for fellowship awards. The project will also contri-
bute to the improvement of library facilities and services within ARD.
3.17      Establishment costs for the research centers have been estimated
by using a ratio of US$30,000 per professional (Annexes 6 to 9). This ratio
is comparable to those of international research centers but is higher than
most of the existing Indonesian research centers 1/. This higher level has
been retained, however, to ensure adequate funding of research to be carried
out under this project. Reasonably firm cost estimates are possible for the
information centers, based on a knowledge of their functional requirements
(Annex 10, Table 4). In all cases, the establishment cost of the research
currently executed has been appraised and subtracted from the total estab-
lishment cost, so that the incremental establishment cost only was taken as
part of the project cost.
3.18      In view of the uncertainties bearing on building requirements, in-
cluding such amenity improvements as staff housing, schools, health clinics
and recreational facilities, a physical contingency of 20% was taken for
these components. A physical contingency of 5% was applied for all other
components including the technical services. The total physical contingen-
cies amount to 10.5% of the base project cost, and the price contingency
to 42% of the base cost. Price contingencies are based on projected future
international and local price increases (Annex 18, Table 4).
1/ The most accurate estimates obtained by the mission were for the Estate
Crops Research Center at Medan and the PNP Oil Palm Research Center at
Marihat. In both cases the ratio of operating cost per professional
was around US$20,000.



- 14 -
3.19      Project cost estimates, details of which are given in Annex 18, are
sumarized below:
For-
eign     %
Million Rupiah      Thousand US Dollars   Ex-   Base
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total change  Cost
Capital input
Buildings & Housing        3,005  2,002   5,007  7,240  4,826 12,066   40         39
Research Equipment            52    461      513    124  1,112  1,236   90         4
Furniture                     24     10       34     57      24     81   30       -
Farm Development             134    -76      210    324    183    507   36         2
Field Equipment               74     73      147    179    176    355   50         1
Vehicles                      82    247      329    198    594    792   75         3
Information Equipment         29    260      289     70    627    697   90         2
Library                       10     94      104     25    225    250   90         1
Sub-Total            3,410  3,223   6,633  8,217  7,767 15,984   49          52
Technical Services
Specialists & In-
Service Training          285  1,620   1,905    688  3,902  4,590   85          15
Fellowships                  135  1,349   1.484    325  3,251  3.576   91         12
Sub-Total              420  2,969   3,389  1,013  7,153  8,166   88          27
Land Purchase                 75    -         75    180    -       180   -         1
Establishment Cost        2583    -        2,583  6,225    -    6,225   -         20
BASE COST                 6,488  6,192  12,680 15,635 14,920 30,555   49         100
Physical Contingency         747    595   1,342  1,799  1,435  3,234   44         11
Provision for
Price Increases         3.150  2,164   5,314  7,591  5.214 12,805   41          42
TOTAL PROJECT COST       10,385  82951  19,336 25,025 21,569 46,594   46         153
D. Financing
3.20      The Bank would finance US$21.5 M or 46.1% of total project cost,
which is approximately equivalent to the foreign exchange cost.  GOI would
finance the remaining 53.9%. Breakdown of costs, without contingencies,
between the program components are estimated as ARD headquarters $1.9M;
rice $7.4M; palawija $3.4M; highland vegetables $4.8M; rubber $7.5M and
extension information $5.6M (Annex 18, Table 2).



- 15
E. Disbursement and Flow of Funds
3.21      The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchbazge
costs of fellewships and consultants (about US$10.5M) 1/j  For civil -wo rks
including staff ho?zsing, the Bank loan would be disbursed for 40% of total
costs (about U5$7.OM).  For equipment, library supplies and furniture, the
loan wiould be disbursed for 100% of CIF value of the directly imported goods,
95% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured locally, and 65% or
imported equipment procured locally (about US$3.2M total). For project
vehicles, the loan would be disbursed for 100% of the CIF value of imported
vehicles, and 40% of the total cost of vehicles procured locally (about
US$OO8M total) - The disbursement schedule is estimated to follow the
pattern belmw
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ 1000)
-ank Fiscal Year   --------- --
1975/76   76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81        Total
Bank loan       1,100    5,700   6,900   4,300   2,500   1,000    21,500
Cumulative      1,100    6,800  13,700  18,000  20,500  21,500    21,500
- as %
total loan      5%      32%      64%     84%      95%    100%
F.  Procurement and Audit-
3.22      Civil works contracts in excess of US$100,000 for the combined
rice and palawija center (US$4.4M) and the rubber center (US$4.OM) would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding as there is a pos-
sibility that foreign contractors may wish to bid for these two larger
centers. Contracts for the construction of the highland vegetable center
(US$1.1M) and the ten information centers which are small and scattered
(totalling US$2.5M) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertized locally, and with no restrictions on bidding by foreign contractors,
in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. For
purposes of bid comparision for civil works contracts local contractors would
1/   The figures given in this paragraph relate to costs of project compo-
nents inclusive of physical and price contingencies. Therefore they
are not directly comparable with the costs given in paragraph 3.19.
2/   Costs in this section are shown without physical and price contingen-
cies.



- 16 -
receive a preference of 7-1/2%. Indonesia has a viable local contracting
industry and it is expected that local contractors would win all bids for
civil works and for the provision of services and utilities therein. Re-
search and information equipment (US$1.9M) which is specialized in character
and for which after sales service is of critical importance and must be
provided locally, together with furniture and library supplies (US$0.3M)
which would be widely scattered and purchased over several years, would be
procured on the basis of competitive procurement procedures involving the
solicitation of at least three price quotations. Technical services (US$8.2M)
would be contracted by the borrower through one or more foreign consultancy
organizations approved by the Bank. Contracts for agricultural vehicles
(US$0.5M) in excess of US$50,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Agricultural vehicle purchases less than
US$50,000, and other vehicles (US$ 0.3 M) would be procured locally through
prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at least three quotations.
3.23      A consultant financial administrator would be provided under the
project for a minimum period of three years. He would serve in the Project
Implementation Unit within the ARD Secretariat (para 4.07) and will assist
ARD in initiating an accounting system within ARD. A procurement specialist
in agricultural research equipment would also be provided for a total period
of 12 months to assist in preparing equipment lists for tender and in eval-
uation of bids.  Assurances were obtained during negotiation that adequate
records in accordance with consistently maintained accounting practice would
be followed.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Control and Operation
4.01      Presidential decrees 44/74 and 45/74 (Annex 4), and recently
issued Ministerial decrees provide for the establishment of a Governing
Board, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, wBhich would provide overall
policy guidance for the GOI agricultural research program. An Executive
Board, chaired by the Head of ARD, would have administrative responsibility
for all agricultural research activities in the Ministry (Annex 3, Chatt 2).
4.02      The same Presidential decrees and a parallel set of recently issued
ministerial decrees, designate the extension activities now transferred from
the directorates of the ministry and controlled by AETE.
4.03      Program directors in charge of each research program to be supported
through the project, the ARD Project Implementation Unit (PIU) director (para
4.07), and the director of the NIC, all with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, have been recently appointed. Professional and
support staff for the programs are being assembled from the existing cadre
of research and extension personnel on the establishment of the several
organizational units within the two agencies, or transferred from other GOI
organizations, or directly recruited.



Agency for Research and Development (ARD)
4.04      The powers of the Governing Board for Agricultural Research (Annex
4) extend to standardization of policies and priorities regarding agricul-
tural research, approval of annual research programs, allocation of research
budget funds, review of achievements, coordination of assistance from foreign
donors and the establishment of research personnel terms and conditions of
service designed to attract and retain those of highest caliber.  In time
this should lead to ineffective research units being closed down or absorbed
into other more effective groups. Research and related advisory services are
being separated from service and regulatory functions, with the latter re-
maining in the hands of other, more appropriate GOI agencies.
4.05      The Head of ARD is answerable to the Minister of Agriculture who
chairs the Governing Board. This Board would have representation from other
Ministries concerned with agricultural research. The ARD Headquarters, which
is being constructed at Pasarminggu on the outskirts of Jakarta, includes a
Secretariat with administrative service units responsible for budget and fi-
nance, personnel, procurement and accounts.
4.06      Seven bureaux are included in the ARD headquarters organization.
Four of these provide support services, namely for plant and animal quaran-
tine; library resources; data processing and statistics, including an experi-
mental design and analysis capability; and agro-economics, including a
monitoring and evaluation capability to cover all research programs.  The
remaining three bureaux have been assigned a mainly coordinating function
for groups of institutes or programs dealing with similar commodities. They
also provide some technical services and their chiefs have an advisory role
to the Head of ARD in respect to their areas of specialized technical respon-
sibility.
4.07      A PIU has been recently established in ARD to administer the
project research centers construction and equipment program and to coordinate
the fellowship and technical assistance programs. The PIU staff supported
by a financial administrator and a procurement specialist (para 3.23) and
in collaboration with executive architects, construction management and cost
control consultants (see below), and the research program directors, their
consultant advisors and staff, would prepare development plan reports for
each center. These reports would include, inter alia, a site development
plan based on topographical, soil and subsoil survey, functional building
program derived from a revised schedule of accommodation, and preliminary
list of major items of research and field equipment together with preliminary
budget covering land preparation, civil works, furnishing and equipment.
These development plan reports would be carefully reviewed internally and
submitted to the Bank for comment before construction contracts are put out
to tender. The executive architects, construction management and cost control
consultants would be engaged as soon as possible and in any event not later
than December 31, 1975 to accord with an assurance given at negotiation, to
commence preliminary planning and design work for the research centers.
Provision has been made for financing retroactively up to US$100,000 of the
cost of the above professional services incurred prior to loan signing.



- 18 -
4.08      The setting up of ARD provides an opportunity to transfer research
ac_ivities from Bogor, where there is a disproportionately large concentra-
tion of research expertize, to selected regions, as exemplified by the
commodity research centers to be supported through the project. The relo-
cation must be a gradual process which can only be successfully carried out
after careful site planning and civil works construction programs have been
completed, including provision of adequate housing for the staff and fami-
lies. The national research programs to be supported under the project will
in the initial years be developed by a program director and nucleus staff of
research personnel within each of the existing institutes concerned with re-
search on the specific crops, namely CRIA (rice and palawija programs), the
Horticultural Research Institute (highland vegetables program), and BPPM
(rubber program). The nucleus staff would assume immediate responsibility
for ongoing experimental work on the specific crops. Field development,
uniformity trials and some experimental work should be initiated forthwith
at each of the new centers, well in advance of the completion of the civil
works construction and equipment programs. It is obvious that the greater
the support given to program initiation and experimentaL site developmient
in the early years of the project, the smoother the physical transfer of
staff to the new centers will be effected when the facilities are finally
ready for occupancy. Assurances that the centers would by established by
December 31, 1978 were given at negotiation. The program directors with
the assistance of the program advisors would initiate regular reviews of
program content and orientation to ensure the development of technology
appropriate for smallholder producers. The goal of an adequate range of
well planned and well staffed commodity research programs based on national
centers with their network of regional experimental stations covering all
the main commodity groups is likely to take several years to attain, with
the project providing the main impetus in the beginning.
4.09      In order to ensure that GOI resources are allocated to priority
research projects in amounts commensurate with the scope or magnitude of
the problems and in accordance with sectoral needs, the Ministry of State
for Research has been given a review and assessment responsibility in respect
to research programs undertaken by all Ministries (Presidential Decree 45/73
refers). The review responsibility of this Ministry in respect to the broader
allocation of GOI funds for research between ministries will supplement that
of the Governing Board (para 4.01) and will further ensure that funds allo-
cated for agricultural research are adequate in relation to national priori-
ties.
Agency for Education, Training and Extension
4.10      An Agency for Education and Training was established by decrees
in 1972. Its functional responsibilites have recently been extended and its
name changed under Presidential Decrees 44/74 and 45/74 to include extension.
The AETE became operational on April 1, 1975. (Annex 3, Chart 3). The Agency
also includes a Project Implementation Unit which was set up to implement the
Agricultural Education Project (IAD-288) and is staffed by a small but ade-
quate complement of architects, accountants and  procurement personnel.  This
Unit would also be responsible for supervising the civil works construction
and general equipment procurement program for the project information centers.



- 19 -
4.11      The AETE includes three bureaux, for education, training and exten-
sion. The first of these is responsible for training of future extension
staff at secondary level, the second for upgrading of existing staff through
in-service training, and the third, and largest, for extension programs.
AETE also controls a National Institute for Agricultural Education, Train-
ing and Extension and the NIC would be an important component of this Insti-
tute. It would coordinate the work of the nine regional information centers
in the provinces.  Ultimately, each province may have its own information
center, but during the life of the project, due to constraints on the avail-
ability of trained staff, some centers would serve more than one province,
and assurances that the number of centers would not exceed nine during the
disbursement period of the project without agreement of the Bank were obtained
during negotiation. The information centers are likely to be complemented
by future Bank support for extension, now being considered.
B. Staffing
4.12      The establishment of ARD provides a unique opportunity for the
reassignment of staff in the existing institutes according to their abili-
ties and preferences. An ongoing reclassification of professional research
personnel into four categories is providing a useful guide for relating
job performance to salary and position. The committee responsible for this
reclassification had classified 211 of about 400 scientists on the Ministry
of Agriculture establishment at appraisal, and reclassification of all eligi-
ble staff followed by periodic re-evaluation will facilitate the assignment
of staff among programs according to their capabilities.
4.13      Salaries for research workers, as for most GOI employees, have
been inadequate for more than a decade, with the result that in most
instances research personnel have devoted part time to other jobs in order
to supplement their incomes. In order to permit full time attention of
research workers to their research assignments, salaries including honoraria
have been raised to more satisfactory levels (para 2.18). Assurances in
respect to maintenance of satisfactory employment conditions were obtained
during negotiation.
4.14      The initial cadre of staff for the commodity research programs to
be supported under the project would be appointed mainly from the institutes
already concerned with these commodities (principally CRIA, BPPB, and the
Horticultural Research Institute). About 70 of the approximately 110 grad-
uate scientists presently on the establishment of these institutes are esti-
mated to be available to provide the nucleus senior staff for the project
research programs, based on an examination of an updated inventory of research
staff submitted at negotiation. Additional staff required to make up the full
establishment for the programs would be obtained either through transfer from
other ARD units or through direct recruitment mainly of young university grad-
uates during the disbursement period of the project.



- 20 -
4.15      Staff for the information centers would be transferred principally
from the Extension Directorate in the Directorate-General for Agriculture.
C. Technical Assistance
4.16      There is a definite shortage in Indonesia of agricultural research
personnel with the training and experience necessary to provide the conceptual,
planning, coordinating and operational leadership required to sustain problem-
oriented multi-disciplinary research. In order to make good this deficiency
for the commndity research programs in the project, highly qualified and ex-
perienced foreign research scientists would be provided for periods varying
from a few weeks to several years. The use of short-term consultants, usually
for periods between two weeks and six months, would widen the possibility of
obtaining the services of top ranking scientists from leading research ins-
titutions around the world. Such individuals are often unable or unwilling,
for institutional or personal reasons, to become involved in long periods of
absence from their own establishments, but can more easily be released, or
are more willing to accept short-term assignments. A short-term input by
an acknowledged authority, possibly repeated at yearly intervals, would have
definite advantages for research program conceptualization and planning pur-
poses than could be expected from a longer-term specialist of lesser caliber.
Such personnel can also perform an invaluable external monitoring function.
4.17      Continuity on the part of the consultants would be provided by a
highly experienced agricultural science research advisor who would be
appointed as early as possible and not later than December 31, 1975, and
who would advise and assist the Ilead of ARD and his headquarters staff
during the early years of the project. Four consultant research program
advisor/specialists with proven competence in the four commodities concerned,
would assist the research program directors in formulation, design and super-
vision of the research programs, in addition to making a direct contribution
to research in their specialized scientific fields. Several additional con-
sultant research specialists (para 3.02) would be attached to each program
for long-term assignments exceeding one year, except for rice in which tech-
nical assistance specialists sufficient for program needs are already being
financed under the 1971 seeds project (IDA Credit 246). A financial admin-
istrator with experience in procurement and accounting to assist in arranging
purchase and developing an improved accounting system would also be provided
for ARD Headquarters, together with an equipment procurement specialist who
would assist in determining equipment needs, preparing specifications, and
evaluating tenders (paras 3.23 and 4.07). Terms of reference for these
specialists are given in Annexes 11 to 14. A total of 62.5 manyears of
technical assistance expertize would be provided to ARD by these'special-
ists.
4.18      The project would provide for four foreign specialists with experi-
ence in agricultural extension information techniques to aid in the success-
ful development of the AETE agricultural information program for a total of



- 21 -
14 man-years. One would serve as the agricultural extension advisor/spe-
cialist at NIC, where he would work closely with the head of NIC in formu-
lating, designing and supervising agricultural information programs and the
other three would act as information specialists working with the heads of
the regional information centers to be located in Java, Sumatra and the
outer islands. Their terms of reference are outlined in Annex 14.
4.19      In-service training courses on research methods and management
would be conducted within ARD for senior staff of the research centers.
Teachers for these courses would be mostly found in the Indonesian uni-
versities, but a few consultants would be called upon. Library services
would also be set up within ARD, to be used by the staff of all the re-
search centers. Special courses in English would be provided to upgrade
the competence of scientific staff, especially for those prequalifying for
overseas fellowships.
4.20      In view of the large numbers to be employed under the project,
the borrower would contract with an organlzation or organizations with
appropriate experience to employ, administer and service, the research,
extension and management specialists who would be internationally re-
cruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The con-
tracted organizations would also provide consultants for in-service
training courses within ARD and arrange the supply of documentation for
the ARD library. They would handle and administer the arrangements for
the fellowships program. Assurances that these organizations would be
appointed by December 31, 1975 were given at negotiation.
4.21      Directors of the programs to be financed under the project have
been appointed after consultation with the Bank (para 4.03). The directors
would be assisted in overall planning of programs by the internationally
recruited research advisors and the extension advisor, whose appointments
would be approved by the Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. An assurance was obtained during negotiation that the program
advisors, together with the financial administrator for the PIU in ARD,
would be appointed not later than March 31, 1976, to ensure their early
involvement in the preparation of plans for the new centers and the initial
research programs. A similar assurance was obtained regarding the extension
advisor to AETE.
D.  Fellowships
4.22      The project would provide for about 170 fellowships to assist in
upgrading the quality of professional personnel at the research and agricul-
tural information centers. The fellowships would be for training abroad and
in Indonesia and include short and long term fellowships leading to advanced
degrees. 20 fellowships would be reserved for research personnel in ARD
Headquarters and in centers and institutes other than those concerned with
the commodities to be supported through the project, as a contribution



- 22 -
towards upgrading these organizations which might benefit from future Bank
support. The breakdown, to be firmed up when the research programs are
being staffed, would be as follows:
Number of Fellowships
Program/Center                Long Term   Short Term
Rice                                    18            8
Palawiji Crops                          18.           9
Highland Vegetables                     14            7
Rubber                                  26           13
Other Programs including ARD
Headquarters                       13            7
Agricultural Information                30           10
Total                       119           54
4.23      Terms of reference for the fellowship program are in Annex 15.
Details of the program are in Annex 16. An assurance was obtained during
negotiation that staff awarded fellowships would be bound to return to their
respective agency of employment for a period at least equivalent to the time
spent on training.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The project is primarily intended to support the new institutional
systems for research and extension recently established by GOI. The strength-
ening of these systems will take many years and results, measured in terms
of economic benefits, are likely to be equally long-term. Given time, they
should be substantial and be measurable in national terms of increased pro-
duction and in the extent to which improved production techniques and systems
are taken up by smallholder producers. Ultimately, the benefits should also
be measurable in terms of reduction in real prices of commodities to con-
sumers.
5.02      Because the type of research that would be carried out would be
production oriented and directed specifically to the introduction and adapta-
tion of modern technology of tested and proven profitability in countries
with ecologic conditions similar to Indonesia, the economic benefits would be
substantial (Annexes 6 to 9). The margin available for increasing efficiency
is very great in view of the present low levels of performance in the commo-
dity fields selected, and the development of an improved Indonesian research
capability will aid the transfer of benefits. As recent evidence has shown,
countries gain little benefit from research done elsewhere, even in regions
with similar geo-clinates, unless they have developed a research capability
of their own. The modification of existing farming systems to incorporate
new methods and new products alone could produce worthwhile dividends. The



- 23 -
fields to be covered involve important domestically consumed foods and major
export commodities, and the work would be directed towards increasing domestic
supply and reducing costs through increased productivity and towards foreign
exchange earning and saving potentials. A major breakthrough in one or more
conmodities is not unlikely.
5.03      Attempts to quantify economic ex-ante benefits from agricultural
research can only be highly speculative in view of the uncertainty inevitable
in research. Historically, for this reason, research endeavor has always
been justified by subjective judgements of the type made above. However
ex-post analyses of returns to research have been substantial in many
instances (Annex 19).
5.04      A similar situation applies to extension, although evidence of
increase productivity from producers who have been influenced by extension
advice is more readily available. For example, studies on rice improvements
through the BIMAS program show increased yields of 62% by farmers contacted
in comparison with those not contacted.
5.05      Good research unsupported by an effective extension service will
lead to waste, as also would a strongly staffed extensiorf service if not
back-stopped by an equally strong research structure. Provided research
and extension are developed in unison and their programs properly harmo-
nized and aligned to the needs of small farmers - and the new organiza-
tional structure and other institutional improvements recently introduced
by the GOI with the active support of the Bank Group will make this pos-
sible - there are a number of intangible and tangible benefits which can
reasonably be expected to flow from the project if it is executed along
the lines proposed. These include:
(a)  Improved capability and increased productivity
of research and extension staff through on-job
training and example provided by foreign con-
sultants, and through provision of advanced degree
programs both in Indonesia and abroad. This would
assure a foundation of professionally competent
staff for the continuation of national programs
of importance to the Indonesian economy;
(b)  Production of new and improved varieties of crops
which would provide the essential plant materials
adapted to improved techniques of cultivation and
capable of responding to higher input levels under
a wide range of growing conditions; and
(c)  Development and widespread propagation of new
techniques and packages of practices capable
of realizing the full potentials of improved
plant varieties under sustained yield condi-
tions.



- 24 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiation, the following principal assurances were given:
(a)  ARD would, before inviting bids for civil works
for each of the research centers, prepare and
submit to the Bank for approval, a site devel-
opment plan, to include details of the land and
its use, the physical facilities to be constructed,
and the estimated costs (para 4.07);
(b)  ARD would employ, by December 31, 19.75, architects,
management and cost control consultants for plan-
ning and design of ARD civil works and a research
advisor to the Head of ARD (paras 4.07 and 4.17);
(c)  ARD would, by December 31, 1978, establish national
research centers as headquarters for rice and pala-
wija crops at Sukamandi, for highland vege-
tables at Marghayu, and for rubber at Sungei
Putih (para 4.08);
(d)  ARD and AETE would appoint, by December 31, 1975,
an organization or organizations to assist in
recruitment, administration and servicing of the
consultant research, extension and management
personnel, and to arrange the fellowships program
(para 4.20);
(e)  ARD would, by March 31, 1976, employ four program
advisors and a financial administrator (para
4.21); and
(f) AETE would, by March 31, 1976, employ an agricul-
tural extension advisor (para 4.21).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of
US$21.5M to the Government of Indonesia, representing about 46% of the
total estimated cost.
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 1
Page  1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
The Agricultural Economy
A. Introduction
1.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy, accounting
for 50 percent of GNP, and comprising almost all non-oil exports. It also
provides 65 percent of employment. Landholdings on the densely populated
islands of Java and Bali are very small, and highly intensive paddy culture
predominates. Agricultural development in the outer islands has concen-
trated on estates and smallholder production for export (oil palm, rubber,
coffee and coconut), less intensive cultivation of paddy and the growing of
subsistence food crops (maize, cassava, soybean).
B. Agricultural Production: Current and Past Performances
2.        The agricultural sector made very little headway during the early
and mid 1960's. Compared with 1961/65, agricultural production was only
4% higher and food production 1% higher in 1967, although better perform-
ance was registered in 1966. Because of continued population growth at
around 2%, per capita agricultural and food production was lower in 1967
than during 1961/65. Thus, during the early 1960's agricultural produc-
tion was barely able to hold its own with the growth of population.
3.        In 1968 this trend was dramatically altered upward due in large
part to GOI programs to stabilize the economy and to intensify rice pro-
duction. Agricultural output in 1968 rose 14% above the 1961/65 average
and by 1972 was estimated to be 28% above that level. Per capita produc-
tion was about 5% above the 1961/65 average in 1970, 71 and 72. 1/
4.        Because paddy accounts for roughly half the value of agricultural
production, its average reported increase of 8% during 1968/71 was the main
factor pushing up production. Modest growth was also reported in sugarcane,
rubber, palm oil and kernel, but the growth in paddy offsets declines or
stagnation in other crops.
1/   Agricultural production for 1972 was adversely affected by drought.
For most food crops 1972 production was inferior to the 1971 level.
This decrease was, however, more than compensated by an increase in
non-food and estate crops, forestry and animal husbandry production.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Paddy
5.        Over the period 1951-1971, paddy output has grown at an annual
rate of 3.4% per year. More than half of the growth in output has been
due to area expansion (1.8% per year) with yield increases amounting to
1.6% per year. Over the past 10 years paddy output has also increased at
a rate of 3.4% per year but there has been a drop in the rate of area ex-
pansion (1.4% per year) and substantial acceleration in yield increases
(2% per year). Since paddy acreage in Java has not increased over the
past 10 years, all of the new paddy land development has occurred outside
Java (100,000 ha per year). All of the growth in paddy output in Java has
been due to intensification of cropping and higher yields.
Other Field Crops
6.        The greater availability of rice to the consumer has apparently
resulted in the dietary substitution of rice for both maize and cassava -
the other staples - which have both suffered declines in output with only
modest price increases. The other food crops, however, especially live-
stock products, coconut and coconut oil, soybean and groundnut, have ex-
perienced dramatic increases in prices in rural markets, indicating the
failure of production to keep pace with demand. This is very likely a
function of: (a) the concentration of resources, especially subsidized
credit and fertilizer on paddy, and (b) greater difficulties in expanding
the output of these smallholder cash crops because of weak organization
mechanisms, serious marketing bottlenecks in the smallholder sector, and
the need for at least minimal assistance in moving to improved varieties
and methods. Yet area expansion of field crops other than rice has amounted
to 2.5% per year over the past 23 years, most of it presumably in the outer
islands.
Tree Crops
7.        Once the largest in the world, the estate industry has suffered
from neglect since the depression of the 1930's up to 1968. Recently, a
program of rehabilitation has been started but the effect of this on pro-
duction will be slow to materialize due to the long gestation period charac-
teristic of tree crops. Some benefits are already materializing in estate
rubber and palm oil, due partly to picking up slack in these sectors, asso-
ciated with generally improved economic conditions and higher palm oil
prices. A rapid increase in clove plantings, stimulated by extremely high
prices and facilitated by GOI dissemination of planting materials, will
also produce significant results in the next five years. Serious problems
exist in the smallholder rubber, coconut and pepper industries. In the
case of rubber, an overhaul and expansion of the smallholder extension
service should improve the present situation, characterized by overdense
stands, profuse weed growth, poor tapping standards and an insufficient
distribution of improved clonal material. Coconut and pepper production
suffer from poor cultivation methods and marketing; an improvement in the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
varieties growth will also be necessary to increase the yields. Production
in the massive smallholder rubber and coconut industries has stagnated for
a long time, and recent efforts at replanting are extremely modest. Pepper
production has declined since 1968. Yet total acreage under tree crops has
been expanding over the past 23 years at an annual rate of 2.3%, most of it
representing smallholder production in the outer islands.
Livestock
8.        Data on livestock and livestock production are not sufficiently
comprehensive or accurate to detect significant trends in output or num-
bers. Reported large animals slaughtered would indicate that the total
for 1969 was below the 1961 level and considerably below 1964 and 1965.
Slaughter of pigs, goats and sheep in 1968 and 1969 was 30% or more below
the level of 1962/65. On the other hand, exports of animals, mostly cattle
and buffalo, to Singapore and Hong Kong are reportedly two to three times
the level of the early 1960's, and extremely large increases in exports of
hides and skins are reported.
9.        Ministry of Agriculture statistics on milk, meat and egg produc-
tion for 1969/71 indicate very modest increases, but these appear to be
projections rather than actual recorded production. The Ministry of Agri-
culture reported in January 1972 that per capita consumption of "livestock
products such as meat, eggs and milk has been barely changed since 1969,
i.e. 3.5 kg of meat, 11 eggs and 0.5 liters of milk".
10.       Over two-thirds of the livestock population is located in Java,
Madura and Bali, about the same proportion as the human population. The
explanation for the low consumption of livestock products in Indonesia is
the low level of income, the use of large animals primarily for power,
and the limited feed supply. However, draft cattle provide meat as well
as power. Cattle density in Java is still well below that of Bali and
there appear to be substantial unused feed resources in the form of rough-
ages and crop residues. On the outer islands there is a serious shortage
of draft animals, particularly in newly settled areas.
11.       All studies of consumption patterns in Indonesia indicate, how-
ever, that the elasticity of demand for meat is as high as elsewhere. The
extremely rapid increase in meat and egg prices in rural markets since 1968,
while rice, maize and cassava prices remained essentially unchanged, indi-
cates that there is a serious bottleneck on the supply side, and that there
is a strong rural as well as urban demand for these products. This rein-
forces the need for smallholder livestock programs.
Fisheries
12.       Per capita consumption of fish was reportedly 10 kg in 1970.  Ex-
tremely high retail fish prices in Java suggest that for a large segment of
the population fish is a luxury food. Traditional catching techniques, very



ANNEX 1
Page 4
weak marketing and handling facilities, and high cost of inter-island ship-
ping and port operations contribute to the high cost of this traditionally
important element in the Indonesian diet. Exports of fish, mainly skipjack
and shrimps, were reported to be US$1.5 million in 1969, US$5.9 million in
1970 and US$9.2 million in 1971. This jump was mostly due to a sharp rise
on the Japanese market following the rapid increase in the standard of
living of that country.
Forestry
13.       Production and exports of timber have increased rapidly, exceed-
ing targets in the Five-Year Plan, due largely to foreign development of
the timber industry in the outer islands and favorable world prices. Timber
production in 1969 was 6.2 million cu m, 10.1 million in 1970 and 13 million
in 1971.  Teak production on Java, about 450,000 M  per year, was unchanged
from 1965. Timber exports are reported to have jumped from US$3.5 million
in 1966 to US$100 million in 1970, and US$150 million in 1971.
C. Structure of the Agriculture Sector
14.       Indonesia has a dual agricultural structure consisting of around
17 million smallholders 1/ and just over one thousand large estates.
The Smallholder Sector
15.       Smallholder production exceeds estate production in the case of
all subsistence and cash crops, with the exception of palm oil, which is
grown exclusively on estates. Smallholder exports in 1971 were estimated
at $270 million, compared with an estimated $183 million exported by the
estate sector, despite the fact that exports are the major market for the
estate sector.
16.       In 1963, 12.3 million smallholders were farming 12.9 million ha
whereas 1,120 estates had 1.6 million ha. Smallholder farms averaged 1.1 ha
while estates averaged 1,420 ha. With about 18 million ha in farms now 1/,
the proportion of smallholders is presumably larger, and their average size
smaller.
17.       Smallholders are mainly concentrated on Java, Madura and Bali.
While the primary aim of most smallholders is to provide for his family
food supply, it is evident that the sector also produces a considerable
surplus. On Java, Madura and Bali where population pressure is especially
intense and irrigation most extensive, the efforts of smallholders are
1/   Estimates of the Agriculture Survey mission, June 1973.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
heavily concentrated on the production of food crops, especially rice and
other field crops. In the outer islands, especially Sumatra and Sulawesi,
more of the efforts of smallholders are devoted to export crops, especially
rubber and coconuts.
The Estate Sector
18.       Before World War II, the foreign owned and operated estate indus-
try in Indonesia was the largest and most technically advanced in the world.
Although it controlled only 8 percent of the cultivated land, it produced
60 percent of Indonesia's exports.
19.       Depressed conditions in the 1930's, World War II and its after-
math, followed by the nationalization of foreign estates - between 1957
and 1965 - crippled the estate industry. Managerial and technical stand-
ards declined, maintenance was minimal, and replanting and other forms of
re-investment practically ceased.
20.       Throughout the past four decades, smallholders settled on estate
lands, physical facilities deteriorated, the advanced techniques and plant-
ing material and cultivation research dwindled away.
21.       These developments caused a serious decline in estate production.
The area in estates declined from its peak of 3.4 M ha in 1927 to 2.4 M ha
in 1937, and to 1.6 M ha by 1963. Compared with 1938, sugar production in
1963 had falled by 53%, tea 55%, coffee 52%, tobacco 86%, cocoa 64%, and
cinchona 78%. Only rubber production matched the pre-war level, due in
part to the substantial increase in smallholder area and output.
22.       These declines in area and production were accompanied by de-
clining yields on estates and correspondingly higher unit costs. Those
costs are further aggravated by heavy taxes, and the widespread, now
fortunately declining, imposition of illegal levies.
23.       Since 1968, a number of estate rehabilitation projects have been
undertaken by IDA and the Asian Development Bank on the nationalized estate
properties, especially in palm oil and rubber. Between 1969 and 1971, how-
ever, the production results from these efforts were modest, which is not
unexpected given the long gestation period of most of these programs.
24.       Inadequate management and a shortage of trained personnel remain
a critical bottleneck to the improvement of these large and once highly
productive enterprises. An organizational mechanism to link the state-
owned and operated estates (PNP's) into effective production and processing
groups is lacking: the key constraint continues to be a top heavy bureau-
cratic structure which results in excessive interference and abuse of au-
thority in day-to-day management decisions. A comprehensive study of the
management of PNP's was completed three years ago and the study recommenda-
tions are being considered by GOI.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
D. Prospects and Targets
25.       Rapid agricultural production growth in Indonesia since 1967,
after more than a decade of stagnation, has recently produced a great deal
of optimism about future agricultural growth. Much of the recent growth
can be attributed to a reported 8 percent average annual increase in paddy
production. Because paddy amounts to half the value of agricultural pro-
duction, its growth has obscured the lack of growth in other sectors of
agriculture. The rapid increase in paddy is partly a result of intensive
GOI paddy production programs, but some of this increase is due to expansion
in area, favorable weather, and statistical adjustments. A rice shortage
which developed following a wet season drought of 1972 combined with an
unusually long dry season have resulted in a more cautious view of pros-
pects. Some of the factors which caused the recent increase in paddy
output will not have the same effect in the future and this fact is now
more widely accepted, and indications are that paddy output will not grow
at more than 3 or 4% annually. Even the 4% growth rate would involve sub-
stantial expansion of paddy area in the outer islands and continued efforts
to disseminate high yielding paddy varieties, promote the use of modern
inputs and improve water management in irrigated areas. Yet, to sustain
output increases in agriculture, rapid progress also needs to be made in
crops other than paddy. Aware of this necessity, the GOI has expanded the
BIMAS program, originally set up to boost paddy production, to Palawija crops.
26.       Two major constraints exist to expanded output of crops other than
paddy: elimination of the bottlenecks impeding the expansion of production
on the outer islands, where great growth prospects exist, and development
of a strong production thrust in the smallholder sector, which accounts for
most agricultural production and is heavily concentrated on Java. Government
programs and recent studies place heavy emphasis on increasing the area under
crops on Java. However, area expansion on Java has been minimal since 1968,
and for both paddy and maize it has halted or declined. Very little additional
area increase on Java can be expected, where far more emphasis needs to be
placed on intensification and increasing yields. In the outer islands major
emphasis should be on area increase, but there is also substantial scope for
increased productivity. To carry out such a strategy better transport and
marketing facilities between the islands are imperative. An effective method
of stimulating smallholder production is necessary if this sector is to
contribute substantially to the needed increase in production. At the very
least, the credit and input constraints for crops other than paddy should be
lifted and at least minimal smallholder programs should be pushed. The
optimistic assumptions about agricultural growth in this framework hinge on
many of these changes taking place. Possibilities for an even more dynamic
smallholder thrust exist if village unit organizations are strengthened and
used.
27.       The world market for all crops that Indonesia exports is highly
competitive. There is no share or quantitative amount that Indonesia can



ANNEX 1
Page 7
be expected to capture automatically. Indonesia has an apparent natural
advantage in a number of important crops - rubber, oil palm and coconuts -
and possibilities for expanding maize, soybeans and some other crops are
good. The amounts that will actually be exported, however, will be deter-
mined 1frgely by improving the domestic and export marketing of these crops
and insjring competitive prices and quality.
28.       To the extent that a further increase in area offers only a lim-
ited and temporary relief, any future increase in production will depend
more and more on an improvement of the yields and the qualities for both
food and export crops. Such an improvement will be mainly conditioned by
the effectiveness of agricultural research and extension. The past effec-
tiveness of the two activities is, of course, difficult to measure; several
considerations, however, point to some possibility of improvement. In both
cases, a lack of qualified personnel has brought on disappointing achieve-
ments; in both cases, a lack of coordination has made for dispersion and
duplication of efforts. GOI has already taken steps to improve the quality
of the extension service. The creation of ea Agency for Education, Train-
ing and Extension within the Ministry of Agriculture, to regroup the various
extension services, has ensured a better coordination; an on-going program -
supported by the IDA Credit 288, agricultural education project - for up-
grading the extension staff should go far toward easing up this important
bottleneck. As for agricultural research, the recent decision to create
an Agency for Research and Development was a first step to improve its
effectiveness; this project will constitute the next step towards this goal.
Attached: Table
October 30, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL R&EARCH AND EXT&NSION
Agricultural Sector Mission &xpectations 1/
1980/1971
1970     1971      1975      1980    Annual %
-  portedT7                          Increase
Population:
Total (millions)                               -       119.2    130.0    145.0
Annual-( increase)                             2.08                         2.4
GDP - Annual 1% increase                                  -  -   - 6% -  -  -  -
Range                                                 -  -  - 5 to 7%  -  -  -
GDP per capita (% increase)                              -  -  -   3.9 -  -  -  -
Range                                                  -  -  2.9 to 4.9 -  -  -
Rice Production:
High (million tons milled)                    12.0      12.7     15.5      18.1        4.0
Low (million tons milled)                     12.0      12.7     14.5      16.6        3.0
Paddy Area:
High (M ha)                                    8.2       8.5      -         9.?        1.5
Low (M ha)                                     8.2       8.5      -         9.3        0.9
Rice Yield:
High (quintals/ha)                            14.7      15.0      -        18.6        2.4
Low  (quintals/ha)                            14.7      15.0      -        17.8        1.9
Per Capita Rice Production:
(Net:  minus 6% for seed and losses)
High (kg/capita)                             102.1    102.1    110.1    120.0          1.8
Low (kg/capita)                              102.1      102.1   105.7    110.1         0.8
Rice Imports:
High  1,000 tons)                            950       600     300-400      0
Low (1,000 tons)                             950      600      300-400  300-400         -
Maize and   rhu
Area (1.000 ha)                            3,018    2,687    3,500    4,000            4.5
Production (1,000 tons)                    2,888    2,138    4,000    5,000           10.6
Yield (quintals/ha)                            9.6       7.9      11.5     12.5        5.2
exports (1,000 tons)                           -      250       500    1,000            -
Cassava:
Area (1,000 ha)                            1,434    1,518    1,500    1,500            0.1
Production (1,000 tons)                   10,451    9,839   11,000   11,500            1.7
Yield (quintals/ha)                           73.0      64.8     73.0      75.0        1.7
Exports (1,000 tons)                           -         -      200 2/   400 2/         -
Sweet Potato :                                                          
Area (1,000 ha)                              355.8    366.7    370.0    380.0          0.4
Production  (1,000 tons)                   3,030      2,579    3,145    3,500          3.4
Yield (n uintals/ha)                          85.0      70.3     85.0      91.0        2.9
Groundnut:
Area (1,000 ha)                              402      413       450       500          2.1
Production (1,000 tons)                      293       299      360       500          5.9
Yield (quintals/ha)                            7.3       7.2       8.0     10.0        3.7
Exports (1,000 tons)                           -         -       50 2/    75 2/         -
1/    Indonesia   Agricultural Sector Survey Report dated April 10, 1974
Volume 1, Page 30, Table 4.
2/   Product equivalen-t



ANNEXL
Table 1
(Continued)
1980/1971
1970     1971      1975     1980     Annual %
Reported)-                           Increase
Soybean:
Area (1,000 ha)                        684       630      700    1,000           5.2
Production (1,000 ha)                  488       422      560    1,000          10.6
Yield (quintals/ha)                       7.1      6.7      8.0      10.0          -
Exports (1,000 tons)                     -         -       50 2/  200-400 2/      -
Rubber:
Area (1,000 ha)                      1,969    1,972    2,000    2,200             1.2
iProduction (1,000 tons)               778       810      850    1,000           2.4
Yield (quintals/ha)                      4.0       4.1      4.3       4.5         1.0
Exports (1,000 tons)                     -         -      800       900           -
-iagar:
Area (1,000 ha)                         135      135      150       200           4.5
Production (1,000 tons)                715       833    1,100    1,500           6.7
Yield (quintals/ha)                     53.0      62.0     73.0      75.0         2.1
Imports (1,000 tons)                   118       150       50         0           -
Coffee,
-Area~ (1,000 ha)                      354         -      368       375          0.6
Production (1,000 tons)                182       192      232       272          3.9
Yield (quintals/ha)                      5.1       -        6.3       7.2        3.5
Exports (1,000 tons)                    97      (100)     120      150-160        -
Clove:
Area (1,000 ha)                         83         -      100       128          5.2
Production (1,000 tons)                 12.5       -       20.0      30.0        7.9
Yield (quintals/ha)                       1.5      -        2.0       2.3        4.3
&)tports (1,000 tons)                    0         -        P        0-5          -
Imports (1,000 tons)                     8.8.      -        3-5       0           -
Tobacco:
Area (1,000 ha)                        171         -      175       190           1.1
Production (1,000 tons)                 71        77      100       120          4.5
Yield (quintals/ha)                       4.2      -        5.7       6.3        4.1
Exports (1,000 tons)                    14.2       _       20        30           -
Imports (1,000 tons)                     1.9       -        3.0       5.0         -
Pepper:
Area (1,000 ha)                         46.4 3/   -        50.0      55.0         1.8
Production (1.000 tons)                 15.7      49.0     40.0      30-60        -
Yield (quintals/ha)                      3.4       -        8.0   5.5-10.9         -
exports (1,000 tons)                     2.3      37.2    25-30    25-50          -
Tea:
v        Area (1,000 ha)                        (120)        -      110       100        - 1.8
Production (1,000 tons)               ( 85)        -       90        95          1.1
Yield (quintals/ha)                      7.1       -        8.0       9.5        3.0
Exports (1,000 tons)                    35         -       35        35           -
Coconut:
Area (1,0C0ha)                       1,684         -   ,1,750    2,000           1.7
Production (1,000 tons)              1,280    1,300    1,500    1,800            3.3
Yield (quintals/ha)                      (7.5)     -        8.6       9.0          -
-Exports (1,000 tons)                  168.6 2/   -    200-250 2/ 300-350 2/    -
Palm Oil and Kernel:
Area (1,000 ha)                        123       126      150       200          5.3
Production (1,000 tons) - oil          207       210      400       600         11.0
- kernel       43.3      45.0     80.0    120.0         9.8
Yield (quintals/ha)      - oil          (16.8)    16.7      27.0     30.0         6.8
- kernel      ( 3.5)      -        -         -
Exports (1,000 tons)    - oil          (150)       -      200       300           -
-kernel      (35)         -       45        55           -
Cotton:
Area (1,000 ha)                           2        2      10-30   100-150          -
Production (1,000 tons lint)             -         -       3-9      40-60          -
Yield (quintals/ha)                       -        -        3.0       4.0          -
Imports (1,000 tons lint)               40        60      91-97    90-110         -
2/   Product equivalent
3/   1970 crop was abnormally low and 1967 figure has been substituted
T ) Estimated



ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Presidential Decrees on Departmental Organization
Two presidential decrees authorizing a basic organizational reform
of Indonesian Governmental Departments (Ministries) were enacted by the
President on August 26, 1974. The first, number 44/74, defines the main
organizational structure for aU ministries (except the Ministry for Defense
and Security) and describes the future functional responsibilities and
interrelationships of secretariats general, bureaux, inspectorates general,
expert staff, directorates general and agencies. The second decree,
number 45/74, gives details of the organizational units which will be
established in sixteen Departments in accordance with decree number 44/74,
and directs that the transition into the new organization shall be completed
by the end of budget year 1974/75 (March 31, 1975). Attachment 7 from this
decree, which deals with the new organizational structure for the Department
of Agriculture, is attached as an appendix. Further definition of the
tasks, functions and detailed organization for each department will be
provided in separate Ministerial decrees, to be enacted shortly.
Attached: Appendix
October 21, 1974



ANNEX 2
Appendix
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Department of Agriculture New Orpanization
(Attachment 7, Decision of the President of the Republic
of Indonesia, Number 45 Year 1974, dated August 26, 1974 - Department of
Agriculture)
CHAPTER I
POSITION AND MAIN TASK
Article 1.
The Department of Agriculture as part of the State Administration,
shall be directed by a Minister who is directly responsible to the President.
Article 2.
The main task of the Department of Agriculture shall be to carry
out a part of the general task of administration and development in the
field of Agriculture.
CHAPTER II
FORMATION OF THE ORGANIZATION
Article 3.
The Department of Agriculture consists of:
(1) Minister;
(2) Secretariat General;
(3) Inspectorate General;
(4) Directorate General for Food Crops;
(5) Directorate General for Forestry;



ANNEX 2
Appendix
Page 2
(6)  Directorate Gneeral for Fishery;
(7)  Directorate General for Animal Husbandry;
(8)  Directorate General for Estate Crops;
(9)  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development;
(10) Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension;
(11) Vertical Service in the Provinces.
Article 4.
The Secretariat General consits of:
(1) Planning Bureau;
(2) Personnel Bureau;
(3) Finance Bureau;
(4) Supply Bureau;
(5) Bureau for Law and Public Relations;
(6) Bureau for Capital Investment;
(7) Bureau for Administration.
Article 5.
The Inspectorate General consists of:
(1) Inspectorate General Secretariat;
(2) Inspector for Personnel;
(3) Inspector for Finance and Supply;
(4) Inspector for Non-food Produce;
(5) Inspector for Food Produce.
Article 6.
The Directorate General for Food Crops consists of:
(1) Directorate General Secretariat;
(2) Directorate for the Development of Food Crops Programs;
(3) Directorate for the Development of the Production of Food
Crops;
(4) Directorate for the Development of Means of Operation of
Food Crops Programs;
(5) Directorate for Conservation of Food Crops Lands.



ANNEX 2
Appendix
Page 3
Article 7.
The Directorate General for Forestry consists of:
(1) Directorate General Secretariat;
(2) Directorate for the Development of the Forestry Program;
(3) Directorate for the Development of Forestry Production;
(4) Directorate for the Development of Means of Operation
of Forestry;
(5)  Directorate for Reforestation and Rehabilitation;
(6) Directorate for Conservation and Nature Preservation.
Article 8.
The Directorate General for Fisheries consists of:
(1) Directorate General Secretariat;
(2) Directorate for the Development of the Fisheries Program;
(3)  Directorate for the Development of Fisheries Production;
(4)  Directorate for the Development of Means of Operation for
Fisheries;
(5)  Directorate for the Development of Fisheries Resources.
Article 9.
The Directorate General of Animal Husbandry consists of:
(1) Directorate General Secretariat;
(2) Directorate for the Development of the Animal Husbandry
Program;
(3) Directorate for the Development of Animal Hlusbandry
Production;
(4) Directorate for the Development of Means of Operation
of Animal Husbandry Programs;
(5) Directorate for Animal Health.
Article 10.
The Directorate General for Estate Crops consists of:
(1) Directorate General Secretariat;
(2) Directorate for the Development of the Estate Crops Program;



ANNEX 2
Appendix
Page   4
(3) Directorate for tne Development of Estate Crops Production;
(4)  Directorate for the Development of -leans of Operation of
Estates.
Article 11.
Tne Agency for Agricultural Research and Development coAsists
of:
(1) Institute Secretariat;
(2)  Bureau for Research and Development of Soil and Food Crops;
(3) Bureau for Research and Development of Estate Crops and
Forestry;
(4) Bureau for Research and Development of Animal Husbandry
and Fishery;
(5) Bureau for Research and Development in Agro-Economics;
(6) Bureau for the Library of Biology and Agriculture;
(7) Bureau for Agricultural Quarantine;
(8) Bureau for Statistics and Data Services.
Article 12.
The Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension consists of:
(1) Institute Secretariat;
(2) Bureau for Agricultural Education and Training;
(3) Bureau for Education and Training of Personnel;
(4) Bureau for Agricultural Extension.
Article 13.
The Vertical Service consists of Territorial Offices of the
Department of Agriculture in the Provinces.
January 21, 1975



INDONESIA
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Ministry of Agriculture
Proposed Organization 1/
LMINISTERJ
INSPECTORATE I                                                        EXPERTSTAFF]
GENERAL  I                                                         I
SECRETARIAT
GENERAL
DIRECTORATE                        DIRECTORATE      DIRECTORATE       DiRECTORATE       AGENCY FOR        AGENCY FOR
GENERAL FOR      GENERAL FOR       GENFRAL FOR      GENERALERAL                FOR       TRAjNIN,          RESEARCH &
FOOD CROPS      ESTATE CROPS        FORESTRY         FISHERIES          ANIRAL          TRAINING &       DEVELOPMENT
_____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ HUSBANDRY     EXTENSION
PROVI NCI AL
REPRESENTATIVES
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
1/ Effective April 1, 1975
November 27, 1974                                                                                       World Bank-9395



INDDNESIA
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Minis t~ry of Agriculture
Agency for Research and Development (ARD)
and Affiliated Research Institutes
'a                                                          Proposed Organization,
Governing Boa-rd for|
Agricultural Research
(Minister as Chairman)
Exrecutive Board
(ARD Head as Chairman)
Cess FuAned                                             Treasur Funded
Head of ARD
Headquarters Bureaux
Scientific]
Management
Council
Estate         Tea ard            Soil           Central         Research       Forestry        Research       Veterinary      Directorate     Central
Crops          Cinchona           Research       Research        Institute      Research        Institute      Research        of Plant        L     frbr
Institute      Instiitute                        Institute          for         Institute       br ALimal      Institute       Quarantine      Biology  d|
Bogor          Gafor Agri                                       Industrial                      Husbandry                                      Agriculture
Estate                                 culSea                                                           Fisheries
Crops                             tura                                                   Fisheries      Teehnology
| Inatit2ufr |r| Research  |rest                                                         Research       Research
IM}ledan-  I                      I lnstitute-/                 | Aoducts  |           |Institute       Institute
|Inland    l     ni        l
IFisheries      Virus      l
Research       Disease
Institute      Institute
Effective April 1, 1975.
To be responsible for the research programs to be supported through the project pending the completion of the
civil works construction and equipmient programs for the new centers, after which the research program directors
and staff would be transferred to the new centers, which would then be ranked equivalent to existing institutes.



ANNEX 3
INDONESIA                            Chart 3
RESEARCH AND EITENSION
Ministry of Agriculture
Agency for Education, Training and Extension
Proposed Organization
Head of Agency
r  ,                       Bureau  orfor
Agricultural              Education &
Secretariat                       ralaio            Edcto&
Secretariat   .    Eduication &               Training of              Agricultural
Train                     Pers l                   Extension
National Institute for 
Agricultural Education,
3Tr     & Extension,,
Cinwi -fl
National Level                 l                          l
---        ----------------------- 4---------------------------  ------------------------- L------__
Provincial Level              !                                                    I
I                           I                        I
-Agricutlturzas           Ag         turaI         Agricuitural
Secondary                 Inservice                Informati n
Schools                  Training                 Centersil
Centers
1/ Effective April 1, 1975.
2/ The National Information Center to be supported
under the project will be part of the National Institute.
2 These are the regional information centers to be supported under the project.
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Organization of Agricultural Research
A. Background
1.        Most agricultural research in Indonesia has been conducted by the
institutes within the five Directorates General in the Ministry of Agricul-
ture -- for Food Crops, Animal Husbandry, Forestry, Fisheries and Estate
Crops. These institutes were established, with varying degrees of autonomy,
following the setting up of the Botanical Gardens at Bogor in 1817. Research
centers of government-owned plantations (PNP's), the agricultural Univer-
sities, privately-owned rubber and oil palm plantations, and the Indonesian
Institute for Sciences (LIPI) also support some research. A historical
review of agricultural research to 1971 has been published by Prof. Dr. Ir.
Sutardi Mangundojo. 1/
2.        The research institutes were established to support development
of various estate crops and other commodities, with special emphasis on
primary products, during the Dutch colonial period. The research insti-
tutes and programs deteriorated during World War II and in the following
period to Indonesian independence. With the departure of expatriate scien-
tists, and an almost total lack of trained and qualified Indonesian scien-
tists, research in agriculture was seriously neglected for about two decades
after World War II.
3.        A workshop on food, held in Djakarta in 1968 under the joint
sponsorship of LIPI and the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, directed
attention to the need for improved technology to increase food production
and levels of nutrition in the country. The workshop recommended that
agricultural research resources be assessed and strengthened to meet
future needs for new agricultural technology.
4.        The GOI, with assistance from USAID, established an Agriculture
Research Survey Team in early 1969, composed of eleven Indonesians, five
members from the IJSA and one member each from the Netherlands and India.
1/   Report of the Seminar on National Agricultural Research Systems in
Asia, New Delhi, India, March 1971. Edited by A.H. Moseman, Agricul-
tural Development Council, New York, N.Y.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The Survey Team, functioning over a five month period from March through
July 1969, recommended the setting up of an Indonesian.Agricultural Research
Organization at the national level that would involve: 1/
(a) the grouping of the various central research
institutes serving agriculture, animal husbandry,
forestry and fisheries into a strong National
Research System;
(b) the launching of a number of national coordinated
research projects for improvement of major food,
fodder, horticultural and commercial crops, soil
and water management, fertilizer use, multiple
cropping, agricultural engineering, fisheries,
forestry, animal sciences, economics and social
sciences;
(c) the building of a national cadre of well-trained,
well-paid, and fully-supported scientists;
(d) the decentralization of agricultural research in the
country, by establishing and energizing a chain of
experiment stations to cover the regional and provin-
cial needs for agricultural research;
(e) the forging of strong links between research, education
and extension at the central and provincial level; and
(f) the achievement of a balance in, and coordination of,
foreign assistance projects, to avoid incoherent and
competing items of activity and to enhance national
programs and plans for research and training.
5.        The recommendations of the Survey Team, approved in principle and
accepted by the Ministry of Agriculture and other appropriate authorities
of the GOI proved difficult to implement. The restraints included: (i) the
reluctance of the Directorates General of the Ministry of Agriculture to
lose their research units; (ii) the concern of certain institutes such as
the research institutes for estate crops to transfer into a new composite
organization with a potential loss of their current salary advantages and
special prerequisites; and (iii) the uncertainties about the magnitude of
problems of program planning and management of the proposed national research
system.
1/ Report of Survey and Recommendations on Organizations, Systems, and
Requirements for Research in Agriculture and Related Industries in
Indonesia. The Joint Agriculture Research Survey Team. Djakarta,
Indonesia, 1969.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        It was decided to proceed with a coordinated National Rice Re-
search Program (NRRP) as an initial vehicle to furnish experience and as-
surance with respect to a multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional effort.
The NRRP was initiated in 1971 with support from the Ford Foundation, In-
ternational Rice Research Institute, USAID, Government of Japan and other
donors, but was not functioning effectively even as of November 1974. Major
limitations appeared to be: (i) the lack of strong coordinating leadership
by an appropriate Indonesian officer or institution; (ii) uncertainty with
regard to research priorities; (iii) the lack of decision on location of
the central headquarters, regional stations and substations; (iv) need for
definition of staffing and training requirements; (v) the organizational
structure, including relationships with the proposed Indonesian agricultural
research organization, other commodity programs, other institutes and the
universities; and (vi) the role of external assistance.
7.        The NRRP instead of providing a pattern for effective organization
and operation of a coordinated national research program, has instead helped
to point up the need for a more effective institutional base or framework
for agricultural research. The decision by the Government of Australia, in
1973, "that in order to upgrade and to expand the research and development
effort of the Directorate General of Animal Husbandry, a new research facility
should be established where problem-solving research of the highest caliber
could be undertaken" also reflects the inadequacy of the existing institutional
base for research. The Australian Government support of A$ 4.5 million for
physical inputs and A$ 4.5 million for research operations and training over
a 10-year period, as a grant, will involve substantial technical guidance
from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO)
for the new Center for Animal Husbandry Research and Development at Bogor.
B. Present Plans for a National Agency for Agricultural Research
8.        The preparat:ion mission for the Agricultural Research and Exten-
sion Project, which visited Indonesia from July 29 through August 30, 1973,
and the identification mission which preceded it, were timely in furnishing
encouragement to the (DI to proceed with the establishment of a new "Badan"
or agency for research within the Ministry of Agriculture, to be responsible
for all research within the Ministry.
9.        Two Presidential Decrees (numbers 44 and 45, 1974) establishing
authority for the new Agency for Research and Development (ARD) were
ratified on August 26, 1974, and provide for transfer of all research
within the Ministry which is supported directly from the GOI ordinary
or development budget, including the existing research institutes, to
the ARD before the end of GOI fiscal 1974/75. It is also proposed that
agricultural research supported by Cess Board funds should come within
ARD as a second stage reorganization for which no date is specified. Oil
palm and sugar research centers, which are financed by PNP/PTP's from their
profits have been excluded from this reorganization.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       The recently appointed Head of ARD, Ir. Sadikin Sumintawikarta,
served for a time, from 1961, as Coordinator for Research in the Ministry
of Agriculture. He is aware from that experience of the need for sufficient
control of funds, and operational and management authority, to ensure
effective planning and performance of the research. This view appears to
be shared by a number of leaders of agricultural research units including
the Director of the Central Research Institute for Agriculture (CRIA) at
Bogor and those responsible for the National Rice Research program.
C. Organization of the Research Agency
Tentative Organization Plan
11.       It was not possible to achieve final understanding with respect
to the organization of ARD during appraisal as of October 12, 1974, in the
absence of the Ministerial Decree which was to follow the Presidential Decree
(Annex 2) on reorganization. After discussing possibilities for transfer
and/or consolidation of certain activities, of alternative uses of facilities
at Bogor if present research there were to be decentralized, and of the need
to delegate authority to the persons in charge of the various research
programs, the organizational structure as presented in Annex 3, Chart 2,
was agreed upon.
12.       In compliance with the Presidential Decree, the following proposals
were accepted:
(a) The bureau leaders would be retained within the ARD
headquarters and be responsible for various services,
rather than be identified obviously as the leaders
of the respective research programs. This would
permit the respective directors of the research
programs, institutes and centers to continue to report
directly to the Head of ARD, as they had previously
reported to their Director General, and would avoid
appearance of downgrading their status by placing
them under a bureau leader.
(b) The number of support and technical bureaux would be held
to a minimum of seven initially, to permit ample time to
identify well-qualified leaders and to avoid political/
administrative pressures to fill these posts with
non-qualified persons.
(c)  The Scientific Management Council would include all directors
of the research programs, centers or institutes. This was
deemed desirable to encourage cross-criticism and evaluations
of research by the research directors. An Agricultural
Research Review Board would also be established under the
Ministry of State for Research to serve for the broader
external assessment of the research.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
13.       It will be important to give thoughtful and understanding con-
sideration to the foregoing and other similar issues. The resistances
to establishment of an Indonesian Agricultural Research Organization as a
national system, as proposed by the Joint Agriculture Research Survey Team
in July 1969, still prevail in varying degrees and must be won over rather
than run over.
The Governing Board (Dewan Penelitian Pertanian)
14.       The Governing Board will be concerned with general policy, in-
cluding the review cf research program priorities and funding and the
approval of policies and procedures for accounting, procurement, and
senior personnel appointments and management issues, not only in respect
to ARD but also to those agricultural research institutes supported by
cess funds.
15.       The Governing Board should include representation from other
Ministries and units concerned with agricultural research, such as the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of State for Research, BAPPENAS and others,
to extend awareness of the importance of improved agricultural technology
as well as to bring external management competence to bear on research
policy matters.
16.       Minister of Agriculture Prof. Dr. Ir. Thojib Hadiwidjaja advised
that the Governing Board, which he would chair, would include the Direc-
tors General of the Ministry of Agriculture. This will ensure them of a
continuing relationship with the research that was previously under their
direct management, and that it should continue to be directed in large part
to problems related to their respective programs. The further membership
of the Governing Board is yet to be determined but involvement of repre-
sentatives of organizations outside of the Ministry of Agriculture, with a
Council of about 10 to 12 members, would be encouraged. An executive com-
mittee of the Board, to be called the Dewan Harian Penelitian Pertanian,
and chaired by the Head of ARD, will provide the necessary degree of unitary
control over the treasury and cess funded research activities which together
constitute the national agricultural research system.
The Scientific Management Council
17.       The Scientific Management Council, under the chairmanship of the
Head of ARD, will be essentially a standing committee composed of the
directors of the research programs, centers and institutes, to be concerned
with a wide range of matters relating to program planning, operations,
reporting, and coordination within ARD as well as with external agencies.
18.       The retention of the Scientific Management Council as an internal
unit for attention to operations of ARD should serve to integrate the
various research programs into a cohesive new organization, utilizing
the professional capabilities of ARD to the maximum in the planning and
execution of national research programs.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Research Advisory Committees
19.       Opportunities should be provided for those concerned with the
development and use of new technology, especially the small producers, to
participate in making recommendations for and planning of research and in
evaluation of progress of research programs. Research advisory committees
have been established under several of the research institutes and it is
planned to set up such committees, each of 10 to 12 members, for additional
commodities and program areas when ARD is established.
20.       The research program planning and evaluation will be initiated
as the responsibility of the directors of the research programs, institutes,
or centers, with the guidance of the one or more technical advisory com-
mittees for each program.
Secretariat, Support and Technical Bureaux
21.       The Secretariat would provide administrative support services and
would include sections responsible for budgeting and finance; personnel
management and staff development; procurement, including specialized, equip-
ment items and supervision of design and construction of minor civil works,
and accounts. A project implementation unit (PIU) would be located in the
Secretariat during the disbursement period of the project, and would be
responsible for the project civil works construction and equipment procure-
ment program.
22.       The proposed services bureaux of ARD include a variety of activities
that should be given special attention in the forming of a national agri-
cultural research system. Support services would be provided by four bureaux,
one for agro-economics which would include a monitoring and evaluation
function for ARD programs as a whole to facilitate program planning, coordina-
tion, evaluation and reporting; another for statistics and data processing,
which would include experimental design and analysis capabilities to ensure
that research is planned in such manner as to extract maximum information
from experiments.
23.       The other support services would be provided by a bureau for live-
stock and plant quanantine; and a bureau for library resources including
publications, which are serious limitations in agricultural research systems
of most developing nations.
24.       Technical coordinating services would be provided by three bureaux.
One bureau would be responsible for coordination and advice for the soils and
food crop programs area; a second for the estate crops and forestry programs;
and a third for the livestock and fisheries programs.
Extension Linkages
25.       A major weakness in the effective application and use of new
agricultural technology is the poor linkage between research and the



AirNEX 4
Page 7
extension services. A commonly proposed panacea is the addition of "exten-
sion subject matter specialists" to the extension organization. However,
such persons are usually trained as specialists in communications, with
no particular competence in a subject matter field or appreciation of the
importance of keeping intact the components of improved packages of prac-
tices. It should be the responsibility of the research organization to
assemble the best combinations of new technological advances and to trans-
mit such innovations in understandable form to the extension personnel.
The subject matter specialist should be allied to the subject matter
source - the research station or laboratory as part of an interdisciplinary
team - with the dual responsibility of constant contact with research per-
sonnel to keep abreast of new developments and constant contact with the
extension and education staff to ensure effective transfer including the
testing on farmers fields and packaging of new technology for smallholder
producers. He should be a technically trained person with an understanding
of research and should be on the staff of the research center.
D. Future Development of ARD
Upgrading of Research Capability
26.       The assembling of all research programs within a national research
organization should improve research quality by: (i) permitting the design
of more problem-oriented research programs; (ii) furnishing greater certainty
that funds budgeted for research will be expended for that purpose; and (iii)
providing a management structure better suited to research planning and
operations.
27.       Immediate further improvements in research performance outside the
project are in prospect through the upgrading of a number of research insti-
tutes and programs, for example, livestock research with a ten year term of
assistance from the Government of Australia. Improvement of these and other
ARD commodity programs, many of which receive substantial external assistance
from a wide range of donor agencies, will furnish patterns for better planning
and operational procedures for the overall organization.
The Relocation of Research
28.       Technical assistance programs over the past two decades have
emphasized the concentration of agricultural education, research and
extension into centers of excellence - with such centers at Chapingo,
Mexico; Bangkok, Thailand; Serdang, Malaysia; Los Banos, the Philippines;
and at Bogor, Indonesia. In many cases there has been excessive emphasis
on implantation of the U.S. Land Grant University structure of combined
education, research and extension -- with the unfortunate misunderstanding
by the host developing nations that one or a few such institutions could



ANNEX 4
Page 8
supply the research necessary for a continuous flow of new agricultural
technology for sustained agricultural growth throughout the country. In
a number of instances this concentration of research and education re-
sources has caused a distortion of research, with the highly trained
scientists reluctant to leave the central area and move to research sta-
tions in the principal agricultural regions. This reluctance is under-
standable so long as centers such as Bogor and Los Banos continue to
receive disproportionate attention and support from donor technical
assistance agencies and so long as the building of effective and attractive
regional research centers is neglected. Indonesia has a colonial heritage
in the cluster of research institutes at Bogor, much like the institutional
pattern at Wageningen. However, the geographic dimensions of Indonesia are
more akin to those of the United States or India than the Netherlands and
the varied environments of the country must be served by capable scientists
addressing the problems in the different farming regions.
29.       There is an appreciation by the Minister of Agriculture and the
designated Head of ARD that research must be strengthened in East Java, in
Sumatra, Sulawesi and Kalimantan, to improve levels of living in these
regions, to improve prospects for transmigration and to strengthen the
total national economy. The regionalization of research will be accom-
plished only by development of the kinds of field and laboratory facili-
ties that will furnish career opportunities for well-trained research
specialists, in areas where educational, medical and other services and
amenities are available for their families.
30.       The relocation of research will involve not only the transfer of
certain activities from Bogor to selected national research program centers
but also improved sites for presently unsatisfactory locations. The gradual
transfer of rubber research from Bogor to Sumatra and of research on palawija
crops and rice to Sukamandi will provide opportunity for use of some facilities-
at Bogor for relocation of certain horticultural crops research, fruit and
vegetable processing, rubber technology and other activities. The consolida-
tion of resources into ARD provides a broad range of opportunities to design
a national network of research facilities, with (i) a Headquarters at Pasar-
minggu near Jakarta; and (ii) well planned and well staffed national research
program centers in the provinces.
Development of a National Research System
31.       The past and current practice of giving atteution to selected
commodity or program areas by the various technical assistance donors, with
new centers designed to serve the individual project, will be useful in
building up parts of the national research program. But this approach has
lead to excessive fragmentation of research resources and also tends to
preclude development of the type of national research structure with the
management expertise and stability necessary to sustain the individual projects
as external support is withdrawn.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
32.       During the early implementation phase of the project, attention
would be given to the planning of ARD as a national research system, with
consideration to:
(a) the development of ARD headquarters facilities at
Pasarminggu, for the administrative leadership, and
for certain support services;
(b) the establishment of national research program centers
for multi-purpose research, both within Java and in
other regions; and
(c) the clarification of the role and relationship of
existing institutes, such as CRIA Bogor, CRIA Sukamandi,
CRIA Maros and other stations.
33.       The preparation report proposed that assistance in establishment
of the new research organization should be provided by the project through
the appointment of a senior research scientist (a research administrator)
of international stature to work as program coordinator with the Head of
ARD. The Minister of Agriculture has concurred in the importance of this
type of consulting assistance.
E. Relations with the Ministry of State for Research
Organization - Research Review
34.       The Presidential Decree establishing the Ministry of State for
Research gives authority to that Ministry for a wide range of functions
designed to improve planning and operations of research supported by the
Government, including:
(a) the review of research priorities;
(b) consideration of allocations of funds to ensure
scope or magnitude of support commensurate with
the problems; and
(c) the final decision, after review with the Institute
for Government Organization (LAN), on the organiza-
tion structure for the various research agencies
such as ARD.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
35.       The authority of the Ministry of itate for Research with respect
to organization of research will be useful leverage to the Head of ARD in
bringing about transfers and consolidation of programs and in designing an
effective research management structure.
Research Priorities and Funding
36.       It is expected that the Ministry of State for Research will
exercise its function with respect to research priorities and levels of
funding primarily through review of programs and budgets prepared by the
respective research agencies.  The Ministry will in effect furnish the
final assessment for research programming for benefit of BAPPENAS and
the Ministry of Finance.
37.       In appraisal discussions -about a Scientific Management Council
within ARD it was recognized that: (i) the body would be too large and
ineffective for in-depth assessment of research if directors of all ins-
titutes or units of ARD were to be included, providing a Council of 20 or
more persons rather than the 10 or 12 to be preferred; and (ii) a council
composed only of staff within ARD would not furnish the broad and external
assessments necessary to ensure that research is directed to the most
critical problems in agriculture.
38.       GOI is fully aware of the importance of having an external
participation in the review of ARD research programs. In view of the re-
sponsibility of the Ministry of State for Research for final review of all
research funded by GOt the setting up of agricultural research review
procedures in the Ministry of State for Research would appear to be a
necessary and logical step for this purpose.
Coordination with Other Agencies
39.       ARD, as presently envisioned, would have no direct authority
over or liaison with related research of the Agricultural Universities,
the Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI), the private sector and other
non-agricultural sector agencies. It is expected, however, that many of
the national research programs, such as the National Rice Research Program,
would involve the staff capabilities and other resources of the Universities
and other organizations with allied interests. While the working relation-
ships with such organizations should be developed on the initiative of the
ARD, with cooperative agreements defining the nature of the mutual support,
the Ministry of State for Research might facilitate such collaboration in
certain instances.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
40.       The Ministry of State for Research, with its extensive review
functions, should serve as the principal reservoir of information on re-
search in progress, and research needed, to serve national development.
This will furnish the base for allocation of supplemental funds or for
shifting of resources to selected programs as needed to ensure balanced
inter-agency attention to priority research.
Salaries and Management Policies for Scientific Personnel
41.       Salaries for research workers, as for all government personnel,
have been most inadequate for more than a decade. Certain organizations
such as the research institutes for estate crops have been able to offer
more attractive salaries and emoluments because of their special funding.
In other cases arrangements have been proposed for payment of salary supple-
ments by external technical assistance agencies. In most instances,
however, research officers have devoted part time to other duties, for
which they can be imbursed, to achieve a minimum living income.
42.       It is widely recognized and appreciated that salary levels for
research workers should be raised to permit their full time attention to
their research assignment, to eliminate inequities resulting from a for-
tuitous appointment to a privileged institute, and to establish a base
for salaries and promotion on merit and performance. LIPI and some of
the individual research institutes and programs have developed proposals
for improving salaries. However, it would seem essential for an organiza-
tion such as the Ministry of State for Research to furnish the leadership
in developing uniform grades, standards, evaluation criteria, and salary
levels applicable to scientists in the various research bodies.
43.       Action has been initiated to classify research workers in agri-
culture into four categories as (i) Senior Scientists; (ii) Scientists;
(iii) Adjunct Scientists; and (iv) Assistant Scientists. Of the 350 per-
sons invited to submit their records for evaluation to an Evaluation Com-
mittee only 293 responded and only 211 had been reviewed as of September 30,
1974, with classification as follows:
Senior Scientist                4
Scientist                      27
Adjunct Scientist               63
Assistant Scientist             84
Technician                     33



ANNEX 4
Page 12
44.       There was much dissatisfaction expressed by the research workers
about the evaluation procedures and criteria, with excessive emphasis on
academically-oriented performance. It is apparent that the criteria should
be improved to develop basic standards for the various job levels and to
determine promotions on meritorious performance. LIPI and the Ministry of
Agriculture have taken initiatives in the grading processes but this would
appear to be a prime function for the Ministry of State for Research as
it becomes established.
45.       At appraisal a total of 58 research workers held on the establish-
ments of the four institutes most affected by the project (CRIA, Horticul-
tural Research Institute, BPPB and BPPM) had been reclassified and placed
into one or other of the four professional scientist categories. It is
estimated that the figure will rise to about 90 when the evaluation of
current staff is completed. Not all of these would be involved in the
programs to be supported under the project, as some of the staff will be
assigned to work on other crops. Accordingly it is assumed that no more
than 66Z of the existing professional staff (60 persons) in the four
institutes will actually be engaged in the programs to be supported under
the project. This compares with a total of 126 professional staff needed
to man the four programs by the end of the disbursement period. 'The 76
fellowships for Ph.D. or M.Sc. level training assigned to the four programs
(Annex 16) should be sufficient to meet the further training needs of
the additional 66 professional staff, with allowance for wastage.
46.       No shortage of eligible candidates for these long-term fellowships
is foreseen, as large numbers of Ir and SPMA level (roughly equivalent to
B.Sc. and Diploma) personnel are held on establishment or can be recruited
from Indonesian educational institutions through the life of the project.
Agricultural faculties averaged 180 graduates annually in the 1969-73 period
and similar output is expected during the next five years, most of whom
are likely to seek public sector employment in the absence of private
sector alternatives.
Attached: Tables 1 - 3
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 4
INDONESIA                                                 Tale 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Staffing and Funding of Naior Agricultural Research Organizations
Professiy7al       Ph.D.'s &       1973/74 Budgeq,           Foreign Donor
Staff -           Masters        Rp (Million) -         Donor        US'OOO
A. Ministry of Agriculture
Directorate General of Agriculture
1. Central Research Institute of
Agriculture (CRIA) - Bogor                86              3 and 54            677            USAID            133
2.  Soils Institute - Bogor                      26               ---               132            FAO/UNDP          215
USAID            133
Netherlands       55
Belgium           45
3.  Horticulture Institute - Pasarminggu         18               ---               191            USAID             133
Netherlands       34
Directorate General of Estate Crops
1.  Estate Crops Institute - Bogor               31             3 and 28            245                             ---
2.  Estate Crops Institute - Medan               28             1 and 27            453            IDA               600
UNDP/FAO         933
3.  Industrial Crops Institute - Bogor           37             0 and  4            277            ---
4.  Tea and Cinchona Institute - Bandung        N.A.              N.A.              N.A.           IDA               700
Directorate General of Livestock                                                                   Netherlands   1,000
1.  Animal Husbandry Institute - Bogor           17             0 and  1             61                             ---
2.  Animal Diseases Institute - Bogor            13                                  63            Australia         144
3.  Animal Virus Diseases Institute-Surabaya  13                1 M.D. & 9 D.V.M.   81             Australia        374
Belgium           36
Directorate General of Forestry
1.  Forestry - Bogor                             24               ---                94            ---              ---
2.  Forestry Products - Bogor                    21               ---               123            ---              ---
Directorate General of Fisheries
1.  Inland Fisheries - Bogor                     15             0 and  2             24            Netherlands      N.A.
France           N.A.
UNDP             N.A.
2.  Fisheries Technology - Pasarminggu            7               ---                14            Japan             150
3.  Marine Fisheries - Jakarta                   20            O0and  3              88            UNDP             N.A.
B.  Government-Owned Plantations (PNP's) Research Centers
1.  Rubber Research Center - Tanjongmorawa        3               ---                54            ADB               90
2.  Oil Palm Research Center - Marihat            8               ---                96            Germany          N.A.
ADB              N.A.
IRHO             N.A.
3.  Sugar Experiment Station - Pasuruan          19               ---               412            IDA            1,000
C. University Agricultural Research
1.  Bogor Agricultural Institute (IPB)-Bogor 442               22 and 78             50            USAID/MUCIA      N.A.
2.  Sumatera Utara University - Medan            51               ---               N.A.           New Zealand       N.A.
ADC              N.A.
3. Hasanudden University
a) Agriculture - Makassar                    34            0 and  1             N.A.           ---
b) Animal Husbandry - Makassar               32               ---               N.A.           ---              ---
4. Gadjah Mada University
a) Agriculture - Jogjakarta                 55                ---                36            USAI P/MUCIA
RF_/& FF74   N.A.
b) Animal Husbandry - Jogjakarta             --               ---                 3            USAID/MUCIA      N.A.
c) Animal Technology - Jogjakarta            19             0 and  2             19            USAID/MUCIA      N.A.
d) Forestry - Jogjakarta                     27               ---                 3            USAID/ f CIA
& RF-          N.A.
D. Other Organizations
1.  LIPI - Jakarta                               50            11 and 39            N.A.
L/ Group III and IV of the Indonesian Civil Service Salary Scale
2' Includes both routine and development budgets
3/ U.S. Midwest Consortium of Universities and Rockfeller Foundation
4/ Ford Foundation
January 2, 1974



ANEX 4
Table 2
INDCNESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSICN
Ministry of Agriculture Research Budgets and Salaries
Research as a Percent of Total Budget 1973/74
Rupiahs (million)
Total Budget     Research Budget J  % of Total
Directorate General
Secretariat and Inspection
General                           1,409               -                   -
Agriculture                         5,133             1,000               19.5
Estate Crops                        1, 533              975               63.6
Livestock                           1,038                205              19.7
Forestry                            2,006               217               10.8
Fisheries                           1,193                126              10.6
Ministry of Agriculture            12,312             2,523               20.5
GNP (Estimate)                1641325,O00       I     2,523                 .0039
Agriculture Value                                      .
Added (1972)                 18,550,000             2,523                 .0136
June 7, 1974



INDONESIA
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Ministry of Agriculture Research Budgets and Salaries
Annual Budget of Research Units
(Millions of Rupiahs per Professional Staff Member)
Per Professional Member
Research OrzAnizAtion                                      RuPiahs (million) 17
Directorate General of Agriculture
CRIA                                                              7.9
Soils                                                             5.1
Horticulture                                                     10.6
Directorate General of Estate Crops
Estate Crops - Bogor                                               7.6
Estate Crops - Medan                                             16.2
Industrial Crops - Bogor                                           7.5
Tea & Cinchona - Bandung                                          (n.a.)
Directorate General of Livestock
Animal Husbandry                                                  3.6
Veterinary                                                         4.8
Animal Viral Diseases                                             6.2
Directorate General of Forestry
Forestry                                                           3.9
Forestry Products                                                  5.9
Directorate General of Fisheries
Inland Fisheries                                                  1.6
Fisheries Technology                                              2.0
Marine Fisheries                                                   4.4
Government-Owned Plantation PN Pts Research
Centers
Rubber Research Center - T. Morawa                               18.0
Oil Palm Research Center - Marihat                               12.0
,ugar Experiment Station - Pasaruan                              21.7
Universities 2/
Bogor Faculty (IPB)                                               0.10
Gadjah Mada - Agriculture Faculty                                 0.65
Gadjah Mada - Forestry Faculty                                    0.11
Gadjah Mada - Agricultural Technology Faculty                      1.00
1/ FY 1973/74 includes both routine and development budgets.
2/  FY 1973/74.,
March 27, 1'975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Research Personnel Grades and Salaries
A. Professional Staff
1.      At present, there is little uniformity in salaries paid to GOI
research personnel. Take-home salaries of research workers depend to a
large degree on the organization for which they work. As a rule, private
firms offer much better salaries than those paid by the public sector.
The PNP/PTP and cess-funded institutes give better salaries to their
personnel than those financed by the GOI development and routine budget
(see Table 1). Even in the latter, however, take-home salaries differ widely.
PNP/PTP Research Units
2.      A number of PNP/PTPs jointly finance research units for specific
commodities. Among these, the most important are: Marihat (oil palm),
Tanjung Morawa (rubber), and Pasuruan (sugar). Research workers in these
units are paid according to a uniform PNP/PTP basic salary scale. Allow-
ances and fringe benefits are added to this salary, and are often comparable
to or exceed the salary itself, thus making it more difficult to estimate
the value of the total remuneration and compare the levels in the various
institutes.
Cess-funded Research Institutes
3.      The Cess Council currently finances, partly or entirely, three
agricultural research institutes: BPPM (rubber and oil palm), BPPB (rub-
ber, coffee and tobacco), and the Tea and Cinchona Research Institute near
Bandung. 1/ The research workers of these institutes are paid according to
the PNP/PTP salary scale and also get extra allowances,and other fringe
benefits. Again, the extra benefits complicate attempts to compare sala-
ries in the various institutes. The take-home pay (including allowances
and other fringe benefits) in the cess-funded research institutes is under-
stood to be slightly higher than those in the PNP/PTP research units.
1/ In addition, the cess fund finances some projects in the Research
Institute for Industrial Crops at Bogor, while the remainder of the
Institutes finances come from GOI development and routine budgets.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Research Institutes Financed from Development and Routine Budgets
4.      Salaries paid by these research institutes include:  (i) the
basic salary, which is determined by grades according to a Civil Service
Law. It applies to all institutes and is paid from the routine budget;
(ii) an extra allowance (honorarium) which varies widely from one insti-
tute to another and is paid out of the development budget; and (iii) fringe
benefits, such as housing and cars, which also vary. Additions to the basic
salary, which was fixed for all grades in 1968, have been made several times
during the past few years in a deliberate effort to improve government em-
ployment conditions. Certain categories of civil servants, including re-
search workers, were recently (April 1, 1974) given a salary addition which
was double that awarded to other GOI employees (para 7). A harmonizing and
significant increase in the honoraria levels for research workers is ex-
pected in the near future as one of- the first benefits to accrue from the
ARD reorganization which is pending.
Research Worker Grades
5.      Based on qualifications, experience and responsibilities, GOI
research workers are currently being classified by an Evaluation Committee
set up under Ministerial Decree Number 8/1971 into four categories: (i) Senior
Scientists; (ii) Scientists; (iii) Adjunct Scientists; and (iv) Assistant
Scientists. Each category (echelon) is tied to a certain range in the civil
service salary scale established by a Civil Service Law of 1968 (Table 2).
For instance, a Scientist graded as echelon II will receive a salary in the
IVa or IVb range of the civil service salary scale (Table 3). The number of
years service determine his "basic salary" on this scale. This in turn is
used to determine his "net salary" according to the successive additions
awarded to all employees in recent years. Tables 4 and 5 give two examples
of the computation required for calculating the "net" from the "basic" salary.
6.      The formula for determining the "net" from the "basic" salary
is not exactly the same for all civil servants. Some modifications have
been introduced for various categories of personnel. At the end of 1972,
a special increase was given to personnel of the Ministry of Finance.
Their "addition on basic" (line 6 of Tables 4 and 5) was hiked 900% (in-
stead of 200% for other civil servants). The remainder are expected to
receive the 900% increase within a few years as a result of progressive
increases, but no date has been specified.
7.      Effective April 1, 1974, a further "addition on basic" of 200%
was given to all civil servants except those in the Ministry of Finance.
An additional 200% was also given to certain categories, including research
workers 1/ (see Tables 4 and 5, lines 10 to 13), making an effective 400%
1/ This raise of 400% of the basic salary will be given only to the personnel
of the research institutes who have been categorized as research workers
after screening of their curriculum-vitae by an on-going regarding com-
mission (see Annex 4), paragraph 43).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
increase on basic at that date. It is uncertain whether this slight com-
parative advantage will be maintained in the future, when everyone is
likely to reach the 900% ceiling. This last salary increase brought about
a raise ranging from Rp 11,000 for an assistant scientist to Rp 40,000 per
month for a senior scientist. Tables 4 and 5 show, however, that the "net
salary" of research workers is still fairly low.
Honoraria
8.      The directors of the research institutes can supplement the
salaries of their research workers by using "project funds" from the
development budget. These project funds are attributed to the insti-
tutes under their authority by the directors general of the five di-
rectorates general in the Ministry of Agriculture; each finances a specific
research project. Within a certain limit established by their Directorate
General, the directors of the institutes may use part of these project funds
to supplement the salary of their personnel with so-called "honoraria". These
funds may also be used to pay the salaries of newly hired personnel, up to
two years. At the end of this period, if the recruit is confirmed in his
position, he is integrated in the cadre of the civil service. 1/ The amount
of the project funds - and, consequently, the level of the honoraria - varies
among the institutes, depending chiefly on the directorates commitment to
research and on the funds they have at their disposal. Thus, among the
institutes the supplemental salaries they can offer to their staff vary
widely.  Depending on the institutes and the qualification of the research
workers, these monthly supplemental salaries vary from zero to Rp 30,000 or
more.
Fringe Benefits
9.      These benefits depend on the institutes.  Cars, houses, pension,
and medical coverage are provided in some of the institutes but not in others.
Travel allowances are another way of supplementing the staff's salary;
although they vary from one institute to another, they are higher than
the actual expenditures, and thus constitute an additional fringe benefit.
Three nights allowance is paid for each night spent away from the duty
station in the case of some institutes, to induce staff to undertake field
work.
Future Developments
10.          The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, which will
become effective shortly after the requisite Ministerial decree has been
ratified, will permit some harmonization and improvement of research workers'
1/ The "honorarium" paid to a recruit during his probationary period, however,
is rather low. At the horticulture research station at Lembang, newly
graduated personnel get total monthly emoluments of about Rp 10,000 per
month (US$24) while CRIA (Sukamandi) probationers receive Rp 20.000.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
salaries. Both the Minister of State for Research and the designated Read
of ARD are intent on improving material conditions of research workers, but
no GOI decisions had been made at appraisal. Their proposal, which is
subject to approval of BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance, is for the
following take-home salaries for the four new categories of research workers:
Senior Scientist:         (corresponding to echelon I plus all the
research institute and center directors):
monthly take-home salary of Rp 150,000
with, in addition, fringe benefits, such
as house, telephone, car and driver.
Scientist: 1/             (corresponding to echelon II plus all Ph.D's):
monthly take-home salary of Rp 125,000.
Adjunct Scientist 1/      (corresponding to echelon III):  monthly
take-home salary of Rp 100,000.
Assistant Scientist 1/   (corresponding to echelon IV):  monthly
take-home salary of Rp 75,000.
These salary proposals are based on research workers living in or around
Bogor. With some geographical variations which affect the cost of living
.(higher in Jakarta for instance), they would be the same for all insti-
tutes and centers coming into the Agency.
11.        These remuneration levels should be sufficient to attract and
holding competent research personnel under present Indonesian conditions.
The introduction of salary levels comparable to these proposals are strongly
recommended for the project.
12.        The GOI is actively considering a major reform of the government
salary structure, which when implemented will bring about much needed improve-
ments in the salaries of all government workers. Salaries of research
workers will be related to their category under the new research worker
grading system (para 5) when this reform occurs.
B. Non-Professional Staff
13.        The non-professional staff of the research centers are divided
into four general categories: (i) senior technical including assistant
scientists; (ii) junior technical (iii) clerical; and (iv) labor. The salary
brackets used for cost estimation purposes are rather wide.
1/    The fringe benefits for these echelons have yet to be defined.  They
would be proportionate to those given to senior scientists.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Senior Technical
14.        This category encompasses the holders of a B.Sc. or a Diploma.
A small proportion are likely to continue their studies towards an M.Sc.,
possibly by availing themselves of fellowships provided under the project.
The salary bracket ranges from Rp 20,000 to Rp 75,000 per month.
Junior Technical and Clerical
15.        In this category are personnel with high school educational back-
grounds. Their salaries range from Rp 8,000 to Rp 20,000 per month.
General Labor
16.        This category comprises workers with limited educational quali-
fications (primary school). Drivers, guards, messengers and other non-
manual workers earn Rp 8,000 to Rp 10,000 a month. Salaries of manual
workers depend on their administrative status. Daily-paid workers (inor-
ganic workers) earn, depending on the region and the employer, from Rp 100
to Rp 200 per day. Monthly-paid (organic) workers would get around Rp 7,500
per month.
Attached: Tables 1 - 5
December 6, 1974



AMNEX 5
Table 1
7 1D CUESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AID EXTENISIaN
Comparison of Salaries of Agricultural Research Personnel 1/
(Rupiahs '000/month)
Directorate General    Directorate
of Agriculture,        General of
Livestock, Forestry    Estate                 PRIVATE FIRMS
and Fisheries           Crops         LIPI    A            3
New Ir Graduates            5 to 6                  20      N.A.    50          50
after 6 months              10                35-40       N.A.  N.A.       N.A.
after 2 years               30                 N.A.      25-50    80         80
after 5 years               35                70-80       N.A.   120        120
after 10 years              42                 70-80      N.A.  150         150
Housing                      Yes                  Yes       Yes     2/
Pension Plan                 Yes                  No        Yes     No         No
Car                          Yes                 Yes        Yes    Yes         Yes
1/ Honoraria and other fringe benefits included (prior to April, 1974 salary increase).
21 Loan of 120,000 Rupiahs per year for housing.
3/ Grant of 10,000 (tax free) Rupiahs per month for rental of house.
May 31, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDCNESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSICN
Classification of Research Workers 
Salary Scale Based on the
Echelon                Classification            1968 Civil Service Law
I                   Senior Scientist         IV c     to     IV e
II  ,               Scientist                IV a      or     IV b
III                  Adjunct Scientist         III c    or     III d
-IV                  Assistant Scientist      III a    or      III b
1/ The decree of the Minister of Agriculture defining criteria and procedures for the
classification of all research workers sets forth the following responsibilities
for scientists in each of the four categories:
1*    Senior Scientist:  with full powers to carry out research
work as a full time job in a given branch
of science and give guidance and pur-
pose to the research activities of the
Adjunct Scientistsand Assistant Scientists
in a certain branch of science.
2.    Scientist:          with full powers to carryout research work as a
full time job in a certain branch of science.
3.    Adjunct Scientist. carries out research work as a full time job
in a certain branch of science under the
guidance of a senior scientist.
4.   Assistant            carries out research (technical) as a full
Scientist:         time job in a certain branch of science
under the guidance of a scientist or
senior scientist.
May 31, 1974



a                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IJCDOIIESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
1968 Civil Service Law: Basic Salary Scale
(Monthly Basic Salary in Rupiahs)
T~~Th  ~   Salary Scala I           Yar          Salary Scale  II1Yer                   Salary Scale III         IYasSalary Scale  IV
of       I                           I  of   I                              loft   l-IoftI
Servicel.     at1   b  I       I   d  fServicel   atI   bt I          1   d  IServicel   at    htb11          1  d  JService!   at:   b  I ct    dt    a
.0     I   4001       I      I       1        1      I       I       I      I        I.      1   I      I       I       I       I       I       I      I
I     I   -        t  I      I       I               I       I      I       I        I      I       I       I      I        I       I      I       I       L
2     I   4401        I      1       I       I       I       I      I       1        I       I      I       I       I       I       I       I        
3     1  -        I5 201    6001   6901      I       I       I      I       I        I       I      I       t      I        I       I       I        
4     I   4801    -   I   -  I   -   I        I.         I       I    '   I      I       I      I         I     I       I       I       I       I          I 
5     I-        1    5841   6801   7921      I       I       I      t       I        1       I      t       I      I        I       I       I      I 
6     I   5201   -   I  -I  -              I  t 113501       I      I       I        1       I      I       I       I       I       I       I      I       I
7     1  -16 6481    7601   8881I1I-                   I-    I      I       I        I       I      I       I       I       I      .                    
8  I 560    -1I-            I-     12   1 15201        I       I       I                .      I      I                                    
9     1. -I    712!   8401 98413    I   -  118601!20801 23201                        I      .t      I       I       I        I      I       I       I      I
10    I160          1- 1 4     -I-I    4!116901              I-tI  -          I      I       I      I       I       I       I       I       I      I       I
II    I   -  1   7761   920?  10801   5   I.  -  I  2.0601  23001  25601   0   I  28201  3120!  3440!  37801   0   1                I       I      I       I
12  1 6401 - I-I- 16  1 1860!  -I -'I -I IlI - I- I-  I-  Il  I    I    I    I 
13.   I   -  I   8401  10001  1176!   7   I   -  I  2260!  25201  28001   2   1  31001 34201  3760!  4120!   2   !1                 I       I      I       I
14     I -I  -           I  -I-I.    81I.20301   -  I   - -I   -tf.3                     -      I  -    I    -tI   -   13!1         I       I      I       I
15    1   700!   9041  10801  12721   9   I   -  I  2460!  27401  30401   4   .1  33801  3720!  4080!  4460!   4   1  49201                 I        
16    I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   10  1 2200!   -  I   -.I   -  1   5   I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  1   5.  t   -  I                    I      I 
17    I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   11  I.  -  I  2660!  2960!  3280!   6   1. 3660!  40201  4400!1 4800!   6   t  5280!  5740!                   I      I
is    I   7601  1000!  1200!  1416!   12  1 23701   -  I   -  I   -  t   7   I   -  I   -. I   -  I   -  1   7   1   -  I   -  1                    I 
19    1       I   -  I   -  I   -  I   13  !         1  28601 3180!  3520!   8   I  39401  432D!  4720!  5140?   8   .1  5660!  6140!  6640! 
20    I                              1   14-  I   -  I   -  I14  - I            9 I  -  I   - I      I.    I -   -  I   -  I   9   I   -   I   -  I   -  I  I
21    1       I  10961. 13201  1560!   15  I 2625!  3060!  3400!  3760!   10  t 4220!  4620!  5040!  5480!   10  1 6040!  6540!  7060!  76001
22.1I                        I-          16.!1   -I   -          I   -I   -     II I1I   -!    -!I   -!I   -  I         l!    -I   -           I   -I   -!I
23    I                              I   17  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   12  1 4500!  4920!  5360!  5820!   12  1 6420!  69401  7480!  8040!  8620
I   18  1  2880!  3360!  3730!  4120!   13  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   13  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I -
I   19  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   14  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   14  1   -  I   -  I   -  I   -  I   -
I   20  I   -  I   -  I   - A   -  I   15  1 4920!  5370!  5840!  6320!   15  1 6990!  7450!  8110!  8700!  9310 
!   21!1   - 13660140601 44801   16  1 -                    It -   I  -I  -I       16!1   -I   -           I   -I   -     I   -
I   22  I   -   I   -   I1  -    I  -   I  17   1   -   I   -  I   -   I   -   1   17  I   -   I   -   I   -   I   -  I    -
I 23  I   -  I   -  I   -I   -  I   18  1  5340!  5820!  6320!  6840!   18  I  7560!140   87401  93601.10000



INDONESIA                                 ANNEX 5
Table 4
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
EXAMPLE OF NET SALARY COMPUTATION: Senior Scientist (echelon I). married,
3 Children:  (monthy salary in Rupiahs)
- Salary scale: IV/e with 18 years of service within the scale.            RP_
1.  BASIC SALARY                                                         10,000
2. Family compensation:
a. wife: 5% of basic salary:      Rp. 500
b. children under 18 years old
2% each 3 x 2% x Rp. 10.000    Hp. 600                            1,100
3.  "Operation allowance" 1/:  20% of basic salary                        2,000
4.  "Position allowance" 27 : 20% of basic salary                         2,000
Sub-total (A)                    15,100
5.  "Incentive for Services": 100% of  Sub-total (A)                     15,100
Sub-total (B)                   30,200
6. Addition on basic:  200% of basic salary:                             20 000
7.  GROSS SALARY per month                                              50,200
8.  Less:  a) contribution to social services
6.22% of gross salary       R Rp. 3,100
b) payment for rice
allowance v: Rp. 25 x 50kg
Rp.  1,250-                     4,35o
9-  NET SALARY per month before April 1, 1974                           45,850
10.  GROSS SALARY before April 1, 1974s                                  50,200
11. Addition on basic:  400% of basic salary                             40,000
GROSS SALARY after April 1, 19714:                                  90,200
12. Less:  a) contribution to social services
6.22% of gross salary:        Rp. 5,600,-
b) payment for rice allowance v
Rp. 25   x 50kg               Rp. 1,250,-                  6,850
13.  NEr SALARY per month after April 1, 1974  ,                          83,350
1/  This "Operation allowance" is given to all the research workers.
2/ This "Position allowance" is given to relatively few research workers in
a position of authority (sub division and division heads, directors and
directors general).
2/ 3.89% for medical care
1.25% for insurance
0.66% for social care
0.42% for Sivil Service Cooperative.
2  Rice allowance for:  -- Employee         : 10kg
-- Wife           : 10kg
-- Children under
18 years old  : 10kg each (max 3 children).
This rice is usually supplied in kind and a deduction for its cost is made
from the salary. The price charged for rice, however, is much below its
market price.
5/ A further increase, amounting to 200% of basic salary, was awarded on
January 1, 1975, after the above table was competed. Honoraria, varying
from Rp. 75,000 maximum for echelon I personnel to Rp. 30,000 minimum for
echelon IV personnel will be additional to salary for fiscal 1975/76.
March 27, 1975



ANNUt 5
INDONESIA                               Table 5
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND RXTENSION
EXAMPLE OF NET SALARY COMPUTATION: Assistant Scientist (echelon IV). non-married:
(monthly salary in Rupiahu)
Salary Scale:  III/a, with 2 years of service within the scale.
1.  BASIC SALARY                                                             3,100
2. Family Compensation:
a. wife
b. children
3.  "Operation allowance"  s: 20% of basic salary                              620
4. "Position allowance      a : holding no position                            ---
Sub-total (A)                         3,720
5.  "Incentive for saerioE' : 100% of Sub-total (A)                          3,720
Sub-total (B)                         7,1440
6. Addition on basic:  200% of basic salary                                  6,200
7.  GROSS SALARY per month                                                  13,640
8.  Less:  a) Contribution to social services 6.22%
of gross salaryl/:            Rp. 848
b) Payment for rice allowance V:
Rp. 25   x10 kg  s 4p. 250                         1,098
9.  NET SALARY per month before April 1, 1974                               12,542
--- s-----
10.  (jRCsS SALARY before April 1, 1974s                                     13,640.
11. Addition on basic:  400% of basic salary                                 12,400
GROSS SALARY after April 1, 1974:                                      26,0640
12. Less: a) Contribution to social services 6.22%
of gross salary               Rp. 1,600
b) Payment for rice allowancoe
Rp. 25 x 50 kg             Rp. 1,250                       2,850
13-  NET SALARY per month after April 1, 1974 t                              23,190
1/, 3t, 2      , v &    see footnotes Table 4.
November 11, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
National Rice Research Program
A. Introduction
1.        Rice is the predominant food grain in most islands of Indonesia.
The area of greatest concentration is Java where 50% of the native rice crop
is produced. The harvested area, total production and yields per hectare
for 1968-73, with projections for 1974-78, are:
lHarvested
Area          Production      Av. Yield
Year             (000 Ha)        (000 T)         Qtl/Ha
1968              8020            11666           12.68
1969              8014            12249           13.23
1970              8135            13140           14.66
1971              8317            13724           16.59
1972              7984            13305           16.69
1973              8388            14455           17.23
1974              8400            15032           18.40
1975              8530            15633           18.90
1976              8599            16383           19.60
1977              8736            17235           20.30
1978              8982            18183           20.90
2.        The GOI, in its current National Development Plan (Pelita II) has
a stated objective to maintain the continuity of increases in rice production
to achieve national self sufficiency (1.2 M tons were imported in 1972-73).
The annual production projected for 1978 would exceed the 1973 production by
3,728,000 tons or by 39%. The annual rate of increase from 1969-73 has been
about 4.4%. The projected production would proceed more rapidly, with a 5.5%
increase in 1978.
3.        The increased production and increased yield per hectare achieved
from 1968 through 1973 were the result of improved, higher-yielding varieties
and intensive promotion efforts. The further projections for higher yields
and higher total production are ambitious and will be achieved only if further
improvements are made in varieties - including resistance to diseases and
pests -- and in production technology. The outbreaks of tungro virus in



ANNEX 6
Page 2
South Salawesi in 1972 and of the brown plant hopper in East Java in 1973
are indicative of the types of hazards that must be overcome if production
goals are to be met. The tungro virus, brown plant hopper and other diseases
and pests are capable of causing complete destruction of rice fields when
the attacks are severe.
4.        A National Rice Research Program (NRRP), established in 1970, has
not achieved the desired objectives of (a) strengthening the immediate
research competence to increase rice yields and improve efficiency of rice
production, and (b) building a national organization with the capability for
producing a sustained flow of improved technology to meet future production
goals.
B. Present Status of Research and Development
Personnel
5.        The staff for rice research at the main station, branch stations
and substations, as reported by the Central Research Institute for Agricul-
ture (CRIA), includes 2 scientists trained to the Ph.D. level, 10 M.Sc., 63
B.Sc. and 143 Technicians.
6.        The two Ph.D. holders and eight of the ten M.Sc. staff members are
located at Bogor. The staff of the branch stations, other than Sukamandi
and Maros, consists largely of technicians, with a few B.Sc. degree (Ir. in
Indonesia) holders.
Facilities
7.        Rice research and testing is carried out at about 30 locations in
Indonesia. The principal research center at the present time is at Bogor,
with the Sukamandi station in process of development as another main center.
The facilities and staff at the remaining stations are not adequate at the
present time for producing dependable research results. Attention is being
given to development of a few selected branch stations, to serve the
principal rice growing regions of Indonesia.
Current Research
8.        Approximately 30% of the rice grown in the country is of the new
varieties PB-8, PB-5, Pelita I/1 and Pelita I/2. The latter two were
released in 1971.
9.        Since 1971, the work in varietal improvement has developed new
materials approaching the stage of release which are suited for areas in
South Sulawesi where tungro is a problem, in East Java where the brown plant



ANNEX 6
Page 3
hopper and grassy stunt are serious deterrants to production, and early
varieties which can be used in triple cropping programs of rice production
or in areas where moisture supplies are too limited for mid and long duration
varieties.
10.       Pathologists and entomologists have developed techniques for
screening for diseases and insects, and workihg closely with the varietal
improvement staff have made progress in identifying sources of resistance
as well as resistant selections from crosses involving these sources of
resistance.
11.       Agronomic trials of released varieties have provided data on
nitrogen response upon which fertilizer recommendations could be modified in
the light of the existing shortage of nitrogen fertilizer. Areas with other
nutrient deficiencies or problems have been tentatively identified but
additional studies are needed by the soil scientists, plant physiologists and
agronomists to determine remedial actions.
12.       Studies on cropping systems are under way and an early breakthrough
in multiple cropping sequence for transmigration areas in Lampung is anti-
cipated. These studies have involved economists in order to assess the
economic and social benefits of various cropping systems.
13.       The performance of the NRRP since its inception in 1970 has been
below expectations and the GOI as well as supporting technical assistance
organizations, including the Japanese and Netherlands Governments, US
AGENCY for International Development, the Ford Foundation and the Interna-
tional Rice Research Institute, are aware that substantial improvement in
rice research on a national basis is essential if the objective of sustained
self sufficiency for this major food grain is to be achieved.
C. The Project
Special Considerations
14.       The building of a national rice research capability to supply the
new technological inputs in Indonesia on a continuing basis will require
attention to the following:
(a) The restructuring of the present NRRP into an operating
organization in which an integrated team of scientists of
the several disciplines involved in boosting productivity
and in protecting the crop, direct their attention to
problem-oriented research;
(b) The designation of leadership responsibility and authority
for the national program to a well-trained and qualified



ANNEX 6
Page 4
research scientist with competence in the planning, imple-
menting and coordinating functions;
(c)  Strengthening and upgrading of the research and supporting
staff through a systemmatic and vigorously pursued staff
development program;
(d)  Improved field station and laboratory facilities, including
a National Rice Research Center and a network of Regional
Research Stations to ensure reliability of new materials and
practices for specific soils, climates, and farming systems;
(e)  More effective procedures for ensuring the prompt application
and use of new technology -- through subject matter specialists
of the research stations who would furnish the linkage into
training and extension programs.
Organization and Management
15.       The NRRP, to be established as a problem-oriented, multi-discipli-
nary activity designed to serve all rice growing regions of Indonesia,
would be set up as an operating unit within the newly authorized Agency for
Research and Development.
16.       The Program Director, who would be responsible for the planning,
direction, coordination and evaluation of the program, would be an Indonesian
scientist of sufficient stature and ability to handle these activities.
17.       The Director would be assisted by a Program Adviser who would
undertake the role of research program administrator. He would be recruited
directly or through international or bilateral assistance. He would assist
the Director in all aspects of the research program planning and operations.
He would cosign with the Director all plans and authorizations for expendi-
tures for research equipment items prior to disbursement.
18.       The research would be organized to give attention to problems of
broad national scope through coordinated projects involving the National
Center and the regional stations, with priority at the respective regional
stations also to specific local or regional limiting factors.
19.       Linkages with the extension service and the agricultural information
centers would be maintained through the subject matter specialists of the
National Center and the regional stations.
The Research Program
20.       Thie research, primarily applied and adaptive, would be directed
toward the following program areas: (a) varietal improvement, (b) soil
fertility and management, (c) cultural practices, (d) water management, (e)
rice cropping systems, (f) pest management, (g) harvesting, processing and



ANNEX 6
Page 5
storage, (h) machinery development and evaluation, (i) economic and social
factors, and (j) training and communications.
21.       The types of activities to be undertaken within the respective
program areas may be described as follows:
(a) Varietal Improvement is one of the most critical factors in
increasing rice production in Indonesia and should receive
high priority in the NRRP.
Varietal evaluation involves agronomic characteristics;
quality -- inlcuding protein content; resistance to diseases
and insects; and tolerance to drought, low temperatures, adverse
soil conditions, floods and deep water.
A functioning varietAl improvement program involves a
number of disciplines. Breeders collect germ plasm and make
crosses involving varieties which carry the various traits
to be incorporated. The segregating progenies obtained after
the desired crosses are made are evaluated by the breeder, the
pathologist, the entomologist, cereal chemist, and the
physiologist. Screening these progenies can often be pursued
simultaneously and in some instances with,the same planting
of progenies.
Lack of cold tolerance in the present new varieties
is restricting their use to areas below 700 meter altitude.
Cold tolerance exists in local indica types now being grown
at high elevations in Indonesia and crossing programs have
been initiated, with some new selections evaluated. Basic
to progress in developing lines which can made use of this
characteristic will be an understanding of the physiological
reactions to temperatures at varying altitudes under the
conditions which prevail near the equator.
(b) Soil Fertility and Management - A principal factor in rice
yields is nitrogen management. This includes determination
of the magnitude of response to nitrogen and the interaction
of this response with seasonal conditions to determine the
levels of nitrogen that are economical. Other factors
determining nitrogen utilization include soil physical and
chemical characteristics, the time and method of application,
the management of water in relation to nitrogen fertilization,
and the availability of other nutrients.
A recent emphasis in evaluation of new varieties is on
their efficiency of performance without artificial fertilizer.
Varietal response at low to moderate nitrogen levels is
especially important since these are the levels at which
many of the new varieties will be grown. In situations



ANNEX 6
Page 6
where careful water control is not possible, treatments to
delay the release of nitrogen after it has been applied
as a basal application offer an opportunity to increase the
efficiency of fertilizer use.
New types of nitrogenous fertilizer offer possibilities of
a delayed release which will enable the nitrogen to be supplied
more equitably through the growing season and be available at
the period of growth when it is most required. This type of
fertilizer will be especially useful where water cannot be
controlled and the nitrogen can be effectively applied only
at the time of land preparation. Research on hand placement
of pelleted fertilizer could possibly provide a means of
increasing fertilizer efficiency on small farms.
Studies of nutrient availability, the effect of prolonged
submergence of soils, and the seasonal availability of nutrients
in flood water are factors of production that need study and
evaluation.
Soil tests from various locations are necessary to indicate
the availability of nutrients such as phosphorus and potash as
well as some of the minor nutrients such as zinc which may
limit rice production.
(c) Cultural Practices - Factors of crop husbandry which enable
the favorable interaction of variety and fertilization to
produce high yields include land preparation, placement of
fertilizer, age of seedling, seedlings per hill, plant spacing,
depth of transplanting and time of transplanting in relation
to the crop season, rainfall patterns, etc. Research on such
interactions will involve the agronomist, soil scientist,
physiologist, plant breeder and agricultural engineer, to
provide packages of cultural practices which can be applied at
the farm level.
(d) Water Management - Evidence from studies in various countries
indicates that water management can effect rice yields in a
substantial way and has been an important factor influencing
the spread of new varieties. Studies of this type demand tnle
joint attention of the agronomist, soil scieitist, physiologist
and agricultural engineer. Since water is a community commodity,
often managed by agencies beyond the control of the farmers, it
is important that the socio-economic factors in various systems
of water control and on-farm water management be assessed.
A special problem involves the tidal rice cultivation areas.
These areas require plants adapted to deeper water conditions,
soil fertility characteristics, and to insects and diseases.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Introduction and pure line selection of types suitable to such
conditions will be the most rapid way in which progress can be
made.
(e) Rice Cropping Systems - Rice as the main crop in the cropping
sequence involves the research of the agronomist, soil scientist,
physiologist, pathologist, entomologist, agricultural engineer
and economist to fit new varieties of different maturities, with
different levels of resistance to insects and diseases, into
cropping patterns to provide the farmer the maximum production,
best utilization of land and labor, and the greatest economic
returns.
Identification of problems in existing cropping patterns
is basic to improving productivity per unit area of land. Sets
of production practices need to be developed to satisfy the need
for high rates of return -- and other sets to provide low risk
at lower levels of management ability.
(f) The outbreak of the tungro virus disease in Sulawesi in 1972,
and the additional information on the recently released varieties
PB-8, PB-5, Pelita I/1 and Pelita I/2, indicate that these
varieties lack the necessary resistance to tungro and its
vector, the green leaf-hopper. Likewise tnese four varieties
lack the necessary resistance to grassy stunt and its vector,
the brown plant hopper, which is presently causing serious damage
in East Java. The levels of resistance which were satisfactory
when these varieties were released are no longer adequate.
The present varietial improvement program has produced many lines
resistant to major pests or diseases but further evaluation of
these lines will require a well integrated, interdisciplinary
effort.
Sources of gall midge resistance identified in 1971 have
been used in crossing programs and the resultant segregated
populations should provide varieties such as Pelita I. These
varieties can be expected to greatly stabilize production on
the entire nortlh coast of Java where an area of 100,000 ha is
losing as much as 25% of the rice yields because of the insect.
Its control by use of insecticides is difficult and expensive.
Other selections now being evaluated involve the C 4-63
and Pelita I/1 plant type and carry higher levels of resistance
to both the tungro virus and its vector, the greenleaf hopper.
Identification of varieties to put into the multiplication
program is expected to be accomplished during 1975 so that a
release could be made in 1976 or 1977. These varieties would
replace the more susceptible C 4-63 and IR 20 and should provide
resistance to a number of other diseases and pests as well.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Multiple resistance breeding has been pursued extensively
in IRRI and the selections from this program are being introduced
into the evaluation programs in Indonesia. In addition, crosses
of these resistant progenies have been made with Pelita I/1 and
other Indonesian varieties.  New selections from both thiese
programs should be available to farmers before the end of Pelita
II.
(g)  Harvesting, Processing and Storage - Research in these areas
should provide information to substantially reduce grain losses.
The agricultural engineer, physiologist, entomologist (stored
grain pests) and biologist (rodent control) would be involved
in various aspects of research in the field as well as in
preservation and processing.
(h)  Machinery Development and Evaluation -  The research would
include all aspects of mechanization in handling the rice
crop, from land preparation to final processing. Of special
importance would be land preparation to reduce the time lapse
between the harvest of one crop and the sowing of another.
This would conserve moisture, fertility, improve soil tilth,
and increase the number of productive days per year during
which land can be used.
(i) Economic and Social Factors - Studies of the interactions of
production practices, inputs and costs, together with added
costs of credit and marketing, are essential to evaluate the
components in packages of improved technology that should be
offered to farmers -- and to identify opportunities to reduce
cost of production.
(j) Training and communication services should be constituents
of the rice research program, in which the subject matter
specialists of the research station will play an important
role in the spread of new technology. These specialists
will provide the linkage between research workers and the
development agencies whose chief role is to work with
farmers in the application of improved technology.
Application of Improved Technology
22.       There is increasing awareness that the flow of improved technology
from the research station to the farm field must be expedited. This involves
a more effective transmission of knowledge with respect to the new materials
and practices from the research stations into the channels of the extension
or development agencies responsible for carrying innovations to farmers.
23.       Limitations in the linkages between research and extension have
',Pon recognized in Indonesia and remedial actions proposed by the agricul-
-tension leaders include, in part:



ANNEX 6
Page 9
(a) Separation of extension (educational) functions from
regulatory and service functions.
(b) Establishing formal links between research and extension
to lessen dependence on the personal nature of cooperation.
(c) Developing a corps of better trained extension workers with
higher educational qualifications to work with farmers.
(d) Developing a highly qualified corps of specialists as an
essential link with agricultural research to serve as
interpreters of research findings for dissemination to
field extension workers and farmer leaders, and to
furnish assistance in training programs.
24.       The foregoing represent progressive actions but a major continuing
deficiency is the "quality" or precision of the initial transfer of new
technology from the research station to the extension organization. The
sometime suggested procedure that research staff devote a portion of their
time to the extension function has little merit. The research job, to be
done well, requires more full-time rather than further diluted attention
and the diversion of research time usually results in neither the research
nor the extension function being done well.
25.       Current procedures in releasing improved agricultural technology
as "ipackages of practices" rather than as single innovations require a
greater understanding by extension workers of the nature of the changes in
the individual components of the packages as well as an appreciation of the
importance of maintaining the integrity or completeness of the package. The
transfer of technology therefore requires special attention by the research
organization in assembling the package in a form that is useable, reliable,
and understandable to facilitate the job of extension personnel in conveying
it to farmers.
26.       The transfer of new technology between the research station and
the extension agency should be handled by a team including a "subject matter
specialist" of the research group and the extension specialist of the
extension agency. The subject matter specialist should have training in
one or more of the technical fields or disciplines, with an understanding
of all of the disciplines that interrelate in rice improvement research. It
would be the responsibility of the subject matter specialist to maintain
contact with the research staff, to conduct trials with combinations of new
materials and practices, and to present the new technology in understandable
form to the extension personnel. Subject matter specialists should be
located at the Central Station, employed as full-term members of the research
staff and should function at the regional stations as well.
27.       The concept of having "extension specialists" serve as "subject
matter specialists" is not viable since the training of such extension



ANNEX 6
Page 10
pe;nnel is concentrated largely on communication techniques, withi little
or no attention to the substance of technical subjects. Therefore, ,he
extension specialist is usually not well qualified to understand the aature
and significance of the various biological or technical changes emerging
from the various research disciplines in sufficient depth to be able to
extract and assemble the various innovations into suitable combinations
of dependable new technology.
28.       New technology developed at a research station may not be suited
for some farming localities because of site-specific soils, climatic, or
pest or disease factors. Verification trials, to prove out the suitability
of new varieties or practices under various conditions are the responsibility
of the research organization -- to identify the specific defects and to make
such modifications as necessary. The verification trials may be conducted
at research substations, seed farms, extension training centers or in farmers
fields. They should be well designed and carefully conducted to insure
reliability of the trials. This final order of evaluation of new technology
should serve also as the primary working linkages with extension. The
extension personnel should be involved in the planning and conduct of the
trials which could serve the further purposes of demonstration and training.
Additional demonstration plots, as required for the communication and transfer
of technology to farmers would be the responsibility of the extension
organization.
29.       The subject matter specialist of the research station should be
fully involved in training activities related to the application and use of
new technology. This would include training for research and extension
personnel in field and laboratory facilities of the research station as well
as involvement in training programs at extension training centers. He would
also serve as a principal participant and source of technical advice in
preparing materials and programs for agriculture extension and information
centers.
Research Facilities
30.       The research facilities to be developed would include a National
Center for Rice Research at Sukamandi and a network of regional research
stations at Bogor, Mojosari (East Java), Maros (South Sulawesi),
Banjarmasin (South Kalimantan), Padang (West Sumatra), and Palembang
(South Sumatra). This station network will furnish a research resource for
the various geographic areas and may be supplemented by local sub-stations
for more precise testing and demonstration of new technology under special
problem situations. The exact location of some of the station sites may be
subject to change but the number of stations and general localities appear
to be well considered.
31.       The National Center at Sukamandi will be developed around the
recently established research station at that location. This site is re-
presentative of about 20% of the present rice growing area of Java which



AANEX 6
Page  1
has been given high priority for more intensive rice production. The exist-
ing rice station has a tract of 250 ha of land, with an adjacent area of
nearly 4,000 ha belonging to the National Seed Corporation. The close
association with the NSC will facilitate field scale observations on perform-
ance of new varieties and the assurance of close liaison in varietal identifi-
cation and in testing of improved rice production practices wnich the NSC
could promote as it distributes the seedstocks.
32.       The National Center would be the headquarters for the Director of
the NRRP and the Program Adviser/Deputy Director, as well as a full comple-
ment of scientists in the relevant disciplines. Research would be
conducted at the Center on all aspects of rice improvement.
33.       The Bogor Station (the facilities at Muara) would serve as an
interim headquarters for an initial period of 2 to 3 years while facilities
are developed at Sukamandi. The close association with the Institute
Pertanian will facilitate in service/academic training in upgrading the
research staff and in furnishing special training programs and workshops for
extension personnel as well as research staff from other stations around the
country. There are special field and laboratory facilities for research on
diseases and pests as well as breeding and improvement research at Bogor.
The rice research staff should operate at Bogor and carry on the integrated,
multi-disciplinary research work until such time as the Sukamandi Center has
the facilities to serve as the National headquarters. The research at Bogor
should then be realigned, with more attention to selected background studies
in pathology, entomology, etc. and with special attention to graduate
training where the students would carry out field and laboratory research
under guidance of senior rice research scientists while pursuing studies at
IPB.
34.       Maros, near Ujung Pandang in South Sulawesi, is now emerging as
an important research center, and development should be continued so that
staff can be upgraded further and the research productivity increased.
The linkages with the extension activities and with the faculty of Hasannudin
University create a favorable situation for a research, training and exten-
sion center at Maros.
35.       Another high priority area would be served by a regional station at
Mojosari and the several substations linked with this station (which pro-
bably should include one on Bali). A master plan has been developed for the
Mojosari station so action on development could proceecd without undue delay.
36.       South Kalimantan and southern Sumatra are classed as high priority
areas primarily because of their potential as transmigration areas. The
Banjarmasin station in South Kalimantan would be developed as the regional
station to serve that area. A new station would be established at Palembang
for the southern Sumatra region. The experimental garden at Padang would be
upgraded with improved facilities and staffing to serve as the regional
station for West Sumatra.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
37.       The proposed regional stations would all require attention to
development of land, buildings, staff quarters and other facilities. In
some cases consideration should be given to creating such stations close or
adjacent to recently established rice estates since the utilization of land
development equipment and expertise provided by these agencies would expedite
the preparation of a suitable tract of 50 to 100 ha for the regional station.
In turn, the existing rice technology would be quickly available for adapta-
tion in the area of the new estates.
Staffing
38.       The staff now available (November, 1974) for rice research in
Indonesia, at the National and regional stations proposed for support and
development under the project, are as follows:
Location       Ph.D.      M.Sc.     B.Sc.     SPMA
Sukamandi        0          1         8         13
Bogor            2          8        30         44
Maros            0          1        15         23
Mojosari         0          0         3         25
Banjarmasin      0          0         4         12
Padang           0          0         1          9
Paleimbang       0          0         0          8
39.       Staff development has been initiated under the existing NRRP,
with 14 Ph.D. candidates and 3 M.Sc. candidates presently programmed for
study abroad. The building of a strong national rice research capability
will require a high level of competence in each of the disciplines in the
central research team. This staff will supply research leadership within
the respective disciplines, coordinating leadership through visits to the
branch stations, and linkages with development agencies and educational
institutions. The profesional staff at the National Center should have
training through the M.Sc. and preferably Ph.D. level.
40.       A critical mass of research competence is required also at each
of the regional stations. The combination of disciplines and the level of
capability within each discipline will vary with the scope and complexity of
the problems to be tackled at the individual station. The estimated staffing
requirements for the National Center and for the proposed regional centers,
to be considered for training are presented in Table 1. Expansion of the
regional stations, which should be carefully phased in relation to the
development of the national center at Sukamandi, would provide opportunities
for foreign assistance programs, the need for which should be assessed in the
early years of the project.
41.       Additional efforts should be made by the IPB and other Indonesian
institutions to provide means for upgrading candidates for entrance to the
universities so that the percentage of rejections is reduced and a greater



ANNEX 6
Page 13
number of B.Sc. graduates can become available for employment. With the
expansion of research activities in rice and other crops, and the demand
for college graduates in agro-industries in rice and other crops, and the
demand for college graduates in agro-industries, the number of college
graduates who can be absorbed in national agricultural development will
certainly increase.
42.       After completing a period of indoctrination and training at the
Rice Research Station at Bogor for carefully selected B.Sc. or Ir. graduates,
they could function effectively on the research teams dispersed to the
various stations of the research network. The in-service training would
concentrate primarily on rice production, field plot technique, and famil-
iarization with projects in the various disciplines.
Fellowships
43.       The upgrading of staff through post graduate training at IPB and
other agricultural universities in Indonesia should be emphasized. Personnel
of the NRRP could be enrolled for graduate courses, with thesis problems on
rice and with senior staff of the rice program serving either as adviser or
as members of the students' examining committee.
44.       It would be anticipated that in the near future, Indonesian insti-
tutions could provide for .a good percentage-of the M.Sc. degree programs.
In the meantime the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB) is
being utilized and could continue to serve as a major center for M.Sc. degree
training. Other Asian centers also should be explored. There is real merit
in keeping the graduate research oriented toward problems in the tropics,
either in Indonesia, at IRRI, or some other location (e.g. Thailand for a
problem on deep water rice). The graduate research training should be
directed toward problems or situations which the student would confront in
his future research. Most of the Ph.D. level training will have to be done
at foreign universities during the term of the project.
45.       One of the priority programs for upgrading research would be short
courses in rice production and plot techniques for the SPMA personnel who
constitute at the moment a large segment of the "research" force. The
development of a greater level of competence among these men would provide
an early payoff in increasing the reliability of research results obtained
throughout the rice research network. If it is not possible to relieve
these men for a crop season so as to attend a six month course, a shorter
period of 6 to 8 weeks would prove beneficial.
46.       Capabilities in rice research and greater awareness of problems
of rice production can be stimulated in the existing staff by their atten-
dance at international workshops and research conferences, such as the
annual research conference at IRRI, and selected attendance at international
meetings of relevant scientific associations or societies.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
Technical Assistance
47.       The limitations in research personnel for the respective dis-
ciplines, and for effective coordinating leadership, are evident from the
experience in implementing the current national rice research effort
which was started in 1970. In addition to the personnel restraints, the
concept of the present NRRP as a coordination unit rather than an opera-
tional research activity has curtailed its effectiveness.
48.       The development of the NRRP as a research performing unit -- with
emphasis on the multi-disciplinary team approach and on applied and adaptive
research directed toward priority problems in rice production --- should
overcome some of the present deficiencies.
49.       The formation of the NRRP as a unit within the newly established
Agency for Research and Development, involving the creation of an integrated
research program of national scope, a national network of rice research
stations, and more viable linkages with extension and educational institutions
will require the full-time attention of a professionally qualified Program
Director.
50.       About 20 man-years of research specialist services will be provided
by the IRRI for several special fields under the contract which is supported
by the Indonesia Seeds credit (246-IND). Other rice research officers are
being provided by technical assistance support from the Governments of Japan
and the Netherlands. Only one additional specialist will be supported through
the project, a Program Advisor to work with the Program Director in the over-
all development and operation of the NRRP.
51.       The Program Advisor would be appointed as early as possible for a
four-year term to serve with the Director of the NRRP in advising on the plan-
ning of the integrated research activities, the planning and development of
the research facilities, the formation and implementation of the staff
development program, including participation in selection of fellowship
candidates, and in assisting with the coordination of the activities of the
supporting external research specialists.
52.       The primary objective of the Program Advisor, and of the other
foreign scientists, would be to assist in building a national rice research
capability -- with the qualified staff, facilities and operating procedures
-- that will be self-sustaining under Indonesian leadership at the end of
the project.
Cost Estimates
53.       The incremental cost without contingencies for the National Rice
Research Program for the six year period would be approximately US$7.4 mil-
lion. 1/ The estimated-costs 2/ are summarized in Tables 2, 3 and 4.
1/   In 1975 constant terms, and not including physical contingencies.
2/   Including facilities and equipment for the palawija crops research
program.-



ANNEX 6
Page 15
D. Economic Benefits and Justification
54.       The goal for increased rice production during the five year period
of Pelita II, by nearly 4 million tons or 39% in 1978 over the production in
1973, will not be achieved without improved technology to make possible
higher yields. In the past 10 years the annual growth in rice production
has resulted in small part from expansion in area, estimated at 1.4%, with
the balance of about 2.0% from yield increases. The rice growing area on
Java has remained static and production increases have come entirely from
increased yields.
55.       The new varieties PB-8, PB-5, Pelita I/1 and Pelita I/2, which
account for approximately 30% of the rice grown in the country, have con-
tributed significantly in increasing yields during the past five years.
However, these varieties lack the disease and insect resistance necessary
for the more intensive cultural practices required for achieving still
higher yields. The tungro disease problem in South Sulawesi, the brown plant
hopper and grassy stunt disease hazard in East Java and the gall midge damage
along the north coast of Java must be brought under control through an inten-
sive, multi-disciplinary research program to breed multiple resistance into
new, adapted varieties. Failure to do this would not only preclude further
annual increases in national production but could see total production actually
decrease if one of the disease or pest hazards reached widespread epidemic
proportions.
56.       It is expected that further exploitation of some tidal rice culti-
vation areas will contribute to the rice production goals in Pelita II.
These areas require varieties especially suited to the soil conditions,
fluctuating and deeper water levels, and to the insects and diseases prevelent
under these conditions. An aggresive breeding and selection program will be
necessary to achieve the increased production anticipated from the tidal rice
areas.
57.       It is not feasible to assign a precise value to an improved NRRP.
However, this program will be essential if Indonesia is to meet its domestic
demand for rice and reduce its imports at ever increasing costs from a
decreasing world supply of food grains. In 1974 Indonesia expected to import
about 1.2 million metric tons to meet the current year's deficit.
Attached: Tables 1-4
March 31, 1975



DYDONEIA                                   A1NEX 6
Table 1
AGRICULTJRAI RMSEAIOCW & EXTENiSTION
Rice Research ProRram
Staff List at Full Development/
Senior      Junior       Clerical
Professionsl /' Technicafl1/ Technic ll "  & General   Labor
(e)  National Center - Sukamandi /
Adnini stration
'ro-rarm Director                      1             1            -            1          -
Dro,ri Advisor/Deputy                  1             1            -            1          -
Secretsry (Administration)             1             1            2            6          -
Accountant                              -            1            2            6          -
Farm Manager                            1            -            4            1         50
Farm Service Center                     -1                        2            1          4
Food Services                                        -            2            -          4
Technical Services
Experimental Design & Statistics        1            1            2            2          -
Economist                               1            1            2            3          -
Library& Information Services           -            1            1             2         -
Subject Matter Specialist               2             -           -             2          6
Cro-o Improvement
Breeder                                3             6            6            2          -
Pathologist                            2             3            2            1          5
Entomologist                           2             3            2            1          5
Crop  Production
Agronomist                             6            12           12           12          -
Soil Scientist                         1             2            3            1          5
Water Management Specialist             2            4            6             1        10
Seed Technologist                      1             2            2            1          -
Farm Mlachinery Specialist             1             2            3            1          3
Cron Quality, iutrition
Chemist                                1             2            2            1          5
PhysLologist                           1             2            2            1
Sub-total, National Center             28            46          57            47       102
(b)  Regional Stations -
Farm Manager                            -            6            6            -          -
Breeder                                -            12           12            -          -
Pathologist                            -             6            6            -          -
Entomologist                           -             6            6            -          -
Agronomist                              -           18           18            -          -
SubJect Matter Specialists             -             6            6            _          _
Sub-total, Regional Stations           -            54           54            -          -
TOTAL                             28           100          111           47        102
1/  Year six of project
2/  Professional -- M.Sc., Ph.D. or equivalent capability at end of project.
3/ Senior Technical -- B.Sc., or equivalent at end of project.
4/  Junior Technical -- Agricultural High School or equivalent at end of project .
J Support for all aspects of work at National Center by end of project. In the
early project years the program headouarters would be at Iluara, near Bogor,
pendiMng completion of the Sukaemandi building and equipment program.  Muara
would continue as a major station with emphasis on training, both of graduate
students and extension end research workers, and as a base for more advanced
studies in the major problem areas of rice research, utilizing Bogor Agricultural
University research personnel whenever possible.
April 8, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 2
INU)NESIA
AGRICULTURAL R3EA,RCH AND EXTENSION
Rice Research Program
Technical Services
Research Specia      Number      Unit Cost         Total
Research,ecialistl                                  ---(Constant 1975 MUT---
Program Advisor/Specialist                1          240,000         240,000
for four years
Fellowships Short-term                      8            6,000          48,000
Fellowships long-term
M.Sc. in Indonesia                        4           10,000          4,Ooo0
M.Sc. Abroad                              9           24,ooo         216,000
Ph.D. Abroad                              5           48,000        240,000
Sub-total                                18              -          496,ooo
TOTAL                                                -          784,000
1/ IRRI will provide some 20 man-years of research specialist services
during the life of the project through a contract which is supported
by the Indonesia Seeds credit, (246-IND). Only one additional specialist
therefore needs to be supported through the project,especially to
provide advice and assist in developing the research program and center,
select fellowship personnel and coordinate the work of the research
specialist team.
March 27, 1975



AnNEX 6
Tabl. 3
INDONPESP
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND 1] N !
Rice Research ProarsA
Schedule of Establib iUant Cost
--_----- Projiaot Year ----------------
1        2                     4     5         6        Total
Number of Professionals2/         14       14        22       25        28       28         --
Of which:
- on fellowships                --       --         8       14        14       11         __
- engaged  in the program       14       14        14       11        14       17         __
--------------------(Constant 1975 US$) -          -
Establishment Cost of
the Program i/             188,000  420,000  420,000  330,000  420,ooo 51O,000    2,228,000
Current Establishment Cost
188,000  188,000  188,000  188,000  188,000  188,000    1,128,000
Incremental Establishment
Cost                                232,000  232,000  142,000  232,000  322,000    1,160,000
1/ Commencing in the second year, a proportion of the professional staff will be
awarded fellowships to study either in Indonesia or abroad.
/ In accordance with the experiences of otber international research centers,
the establishment cost has been calculated using a ratio of US$30,000 per
professional present at the center.. For the first year, however, it was assumed
that there would be no change in the current establisament cost because of delays
in starting the program.
3/ Most of the research on rice is currently carried out at CRIA. Since this
institute also does research on palawija crops and no breakdown of its budget
between expenditures for rice research and palawija research was available,
it was assumed that two thirds of the routine budget was spent to further research
on rice.
March 27, 1975



A NE N 6
Table 4
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Rice Research Program
Project Cost
(Constant 1975 US$)
Percentage of
Foreign Exchange
Local       Foreign        Total           Component
Capital Input 1
Building, Services,
Utilities & Housing           2,663,400     1,775,600     4,439,000            40%
Research Epipment                  24,900       224,100       249,000            90%
Furniture /                       13,300         5,700         19,000           30%
Farm Development /                145,200       217,800       363,000            60%
Field Equi4jent v                  78,500        78,500        157,000           50%
Vehicles W                         17,100       153,900       171,000            90%
- Program Adviscr/Specialist /    6,000          4.000        10,000            40%
Sub-total                      2,948,400      2,459,600     5,408,000
Technical Services 7/
Program Advisor/Specialist        36,000        204,000       240,000            85%
Fellowships, Short-term              --          48,000        48,000           100%
Fellowships, Long-term             49,600       446,400       496,000            90%
Sub-total                          85,600       698,400        784,000
Establishment Cost 8/             l.6"O              --       1,160,-000
Total.                         4,194,000      3,158,000      7,352,000           43.0%
1/ The figures given here for capital input are for the combined rice and palawija
research centers. Some facilities will be common to both and it is impracticable
to break down costs between the two centers. The costs given for building services,
utilities and housing are presented in Annex 17, Table 6, with design and construction
contingencies included.
2/  Based on an estimate of US$100 per office based staff (for the two research centers).
2/  400 hectares for rice and palawija - cost of developing irrigation and roads:-
- land shaping @ $500/ha & 350ha               =  $ 175,000
- irrigaticn and drainage Q $250/ha & 350ha   =      87,500
- fencing @ $5,000/km & lokm                   =     50,000
- road works $5,000/km & 10kni                       50,000
$ 362,500  say $363,000
4/  Based on an estimate of US$2,750 per professional (57 professionals for the
two research centers).
i/  Based on an estimate of US$3,000 per professional (for the two research centers).
6/ Automobile for program advisor/specialist.
i/  See Table 2.
v  See Table 3.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
National Research Program for Palawija Crops
A. Introduction
1.        The Government of Indonesia recognizes the priority need for
research to improve production of the "palawija" crops, so designated
because of their traditional relationships in rotations with paddy.
These upland, or field crops other than paddy, which are grown either
preceding or following the paddy crop, sometimes both before and after,
and occasionally in rotation without paddy, include maize as a principal
cereal, cassava and sweet potato as the main tuber crops, and soybean
and groundnut as the most important grain legumes (Table 1). Sorghum
and mungbean are two additional crops, presently planted on a small
scale, which have good prospects for expansion.
2.        Intensified programs in paddy production sponsored by the GOI
were begun in 1968. Increases in yields are now contributing a higher
percentage to annual production than are increases due to area expansion.
From 1951 to 1971, growth was 3.4% per year, with yield increases account-
ing for 1.6% and area expansion, 1.8%.  From 1961 to 1971 the annual growth
rate has been the same, with yields accounting for 2.0% and area expansion
down to 1.4%'. In the last 10 years paddy land development has occurred
onlv outside of Java. Rice output growth in Java, therefore, has been
the product of increased yields. By comparison, maize has shown some
decline during the period 1968-1971 although the long-term trend from
1951-1971 has shown a continual increase of about 40,000 ha per year.
3.        Maize, sorghum, soybean and the other palawija crops are usually
grown in rotations rather than a monoculture which makes their yield growth
potential difficult to estimate. Two of the common rotations are:
Type A - Limited dry season, irrigated, no drainage problems:
Crops           Planting Time             Land Preparation Time
(days per ha.)
Paddy           December                          10 - 15
Soybean        May                                   3
Maize           Aug./Sept.                         5 -  8



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Type B - Limited dry season, irrigated, drainage a problem:
Crops          Planting Time              Land Preparation Time
(days per ha.)
Paddy           December                          10 - 15
Paddy          May                                10 - 15
Beans          October                             3 -  5
4.         Palawija crops are concentrated in Java where 75% of the maize,
90% of the soybean, 50% of the groundnut, 80% of the cassava, and 60% of
the sweet potato are grown. By contrast, only 50% of the rice area is on
Java. The relationship to size of farms, population density, food habits
and rainfall patterns have all interacted to create resultant patterns of
crop culture. Sorghum is a new crop and was reported to occupy an area
of 6,000 ha in Central Java where it has been accepted as human food. In
North Sumatra, it is being produced for export with an estimated 3 to
4,000 ha in production in 1973. The area planted to soybean in Indonesia
amounts to over 51% of the cropped area in Asia (excluding Mainland China)
and the potential exists for a considerable expansion.
5.         The GOI is well aware of the need for intensive research on im-
proved production technology for the palawija crops if projected increases
in yields and total production are to be achieved.
B. Present Status of Research and Development
Personnel
6.         Research competence applied to all field crops, including paddy,
is reflected in the table below summarizing staff information as provided
by the Central Research Institute for Agriculture (CRIA). This includes
staff at the main station, branch stations and substations.
1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972
Ph.D.                        1     1     2      2     2     3
M. Sc. or equivalent       26    31    27    34    41    54
B. Sc.                     31    33    24    32    36    41
Technicians                63    63    76    89   164   226
Total                121   128   129   157   243   324
Laborers                    6    12    27    47    47   128
Source:  Mimeo prepared by CRIA, Bogor, 1972.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Salaries are low so most competent personnel supplement their incomes with
other types of employment. This means that even the available research
competence is not being utilized full time in addressing its efforts to
research. However, there has been a noticeable increase in the number of
M.Sc. and B.Sc. personnel during 1971 and 1972. This indicates a desirable
trend in efforts by GOI to improve the manpower resources for agricultural
research.
Facilities
7.         The research and extension centers involved in various investigations
and promotional efforts to improve production of the palawija crops include
the following:
Research Centers                       Extension Centers
1.   Muneng         East Java          1.  Bedali (Pandaan)   East Java
2.   Mojesari       East Java          2.  Three additional   East Java
Centers
3.   Genteng        East Java          3.  Pamekasan           Madura
4.   Djakenan       Central Java       4.  Tegal               Central Java
5.   Cikeumenh      West Java          5.  Pati                Central Java
6.   Sukamandi      West Java          6.  Soropadan           Central Java
7.   Bontobili      South Sulawesi    7.  Wonogiri             Central Java
8.   Taman Bogo     Lampung,           8.  Bandjarnegoro       Central Java
Sumatra
9.  Bandar Buat     West Sumatra       9.  Kebumen             Central Java
10.  Rambatan        North Sumatra    10.  Klumbon              West Java
Tanah Datar
11.  Kampar          Central Java      11.  Bulikumba           South Sulawesi
12.  Belitang           South Sumatra
13.  Tegineneng         Lampung
14.  Tanjung Morawa     North Sumatra
15.  Peninjauan         Bali



ANNEX 7
Page 4
8.        The research stations all present a certain neatness in appear-
ance and maintenance of buildings and equipment. Hlowever, the research
plots reflect a lack of appreciation of fundamentals of research and crop
culture which reduces reliability of the data collected. This is not
surprising in view of the level of education of most of the personnel who
are entrusted to carry out the research, without close supervision from
the center at Bogor. The fact that these graduates from agricultural high
schools are willing to do much of the work themselves and not delegate data
collection and field supervision to even less educated subordinates indi-
cates a wholesome attitude toward physical labor on the part of the staff.
This is an important base upon which improvement can be expected to be
built as more scientific personnel are added to the staff.
Current Research
9.        Research accomplishments on paliwija crops are rather limited.
The maize open pollinated variety, Bogor Composite No. 2, matures in
110-115 days and is entirely unsuited to the cropping patterns in East
and Central Java, and in Madura where even 75-80 days to maturity is
considered late. Some new breeding effort is under way to isolate higher-
yielding varieties which possess the earliness of the local varieties
farmers are using. The DMR 3 and DMR 5 maize varieties from the College
of Agriculture, University of the Philippines, have shown resistance to
downy mildew at Bogor and have been included in crossing programs. High
lysine is another objective being included in the breeding programs but
no payoff is expected for another two years. Observation of some of the
breeding efforts at branch stations was not encouraging. A varietal trial
of 20 maize varieties organized by CIMMYT was observed in the field at
Muneng but the trial was not under stress conditions for the major disease
problem, downy mildew. None of the varieties would fit the maturity re-
quirements for existing cropping patterns, although in monoculture situa-
tions in Lampung or North Sumatra some of these varieties may find a place.
Farmers in Central Java have a definite preference for white maize but are
less particular about maturity since the crop is grown in monoculture.
10.       Sorghum plantings observed at several stations indicated some
real potential for this crop. UPCA S1, a variety obtained from the College
of Agriculture, University of the Philippines, has been grown to the extent
of about 6,000 ha by farmers in Central Java. Potentials of a ratoon of
this variety looked extremely favorable at Muneng where the first crop
produced 4 ton/ha and 3 ton/ha yield was expected from the ratoon crop.
11.       An international soybean yield trial conducted at Soropadan was
supplied by researchers at Gajah Mada University. Real differences existed
among varieties in reaction to a distinct but unidentified virus or defi-
ciency problem affecting growth. TK 5, a variety developed by CRIA at Bogor,
was one of the best in vegetative growth but a few introductions also looked
promising. Yields of 1.6 ton/ha were reported for this variety which is at



ANNEX 7
Page 5
least double the yields farmers reportedly obtain. Three other soybean
varieties have been listed as varietal improvements. Some segregating
populations were being grown under rather poor conditions at Mojesari.
Agronomic trials included dates, populations, fertilizer rates, and liming.
Real problems in soybean that depress yields are mosaic virus, micronutrient
deficiencies, poor seed quality which reduces stand, and poor pod filling.
Difficulties with poor seed quality are so common that a seed trade has
developed where seed newly harvested in one area moves to another area where
it is the season for sowing.
12.       Groundnut, another important oil seed crop, is being studied in
several locations for interactions of variety with fertilizer levels and
plant populations. Improved varieties include Gajah, a large seeded var-
iety, and No. 21, an old selection. Kidang, a new variety without earlier
buyer acceptance, has recently received attention since buyers in South
Sulawesi report it has a higher oil content. Farm yields average 0.7 ton/
ha while research stations can get 2 to 4 ton/ha in trial plantings.
13.       Cassava trials were rather limited but the crop offers real
possibilities for on-farm consumption and commercial production because
of its ability to produce under lower levels of moisture.
14.       Mungbean trials, in addition to soybean and groundnuts, were
being widely grown at experiment stations, and a few farmers have small
plantings for home consumption. Some new introducts at Muneng looked
promising and problems of seed maintenance are not so serious with mungbean
as with soybean and groundnut.
15.       An intensive paddy development and promotion program (BIMAS) has
been noticeably effective in recent years, and a similar program for palawija
crops was therefore inaugurated in 1972. In a Kabupaten about 100 km North
of Ujung Padang the extension officer indicated palawija BIMAS has been
applied to 1,000 ha in 1973 and the program would be extended to 3,500 ha
in 1974. In this area groundnut is a cash crop sold to buyers in the field.
A joint Japanese-Indonesian venture on groundnut for export involves the
supply of seed to farmers and the purchase of the crop. Since seed is often
a limiting factor for farmers, private enterprise of this type should be
a real asset to production. Farm crops looked good in this area but only
2,000 ha of groundnut were grown following 11,400 ha of paddy.
16.       A new rice research and seed project at Sukamandi, financed in
part by IDA, is now under way. A development engineer (expatriate) and a
soybean-breeder (Indonesian) are on location at Sukamandi with about 20 senior
technical staff, most of whom are recently recruited graduates.  Additional
expatriate and local professional staff, the former engaged through an IDA
contract with the IRRI, are likely to be posted into the area in the near
future in compliance with a recent decision of the GOI to upgrade the 250 ha
CRIA station to become the National Center for Rice Research (Annex 6).



,:NVEX 7
l'ag7 6
17.       A research program at Tegineneng, Lampung, an extension center,
involves a Japanese team of eight working on improvement and extension of
paddy and palawija crops.
C. The Project
Special Considerations
18.       The review of research now under way on palawija crops justifies
the conclusion of the GOI that priority attention should be given to
strengthening this research on a national basis. While a number of field
trials are well conducted, the development of improved technology for in-
creasing production on a sustained basis necessary to achieve the goals
projected to 1980 will not be attained with the present level of research
capability.
19.       The palawija crops are now grown intensivelv on Java but the
potentials are excellent for increasing their production in other regions
of Indonesia. The new national program of research and development should,
therefore, provide for the following:
(a) A National Center with sufficient experimental fields
and laboratories to accommodate a multi-disciplinary
research team approach to all problems limiting pala-
wija crop production;
(b) Regional stations in other parts of Indonesia where
palawija crops have promise for further improvement
on expansion, with similar suitable land and facilities
for a research team approach;
(c) A planned staff development program to produce well-
qualified research specialists who will provide
research leadership at the National Center, and also
the trained cadre of research personnel who will carry
out the nationally coordinated experiments, and plan
and conduct the supplemental trials necessary at the
regional stations;
(d) The development of research for improving productivity
of the individual palawija crops and also for improving
cropping systems;
(e) Provision for continuous assembling of the new research
results - materials and information - by subject matter
specialists who are staff members of the research sta-
tion, to ensure the preparation of the new packages of
practices in a form suitalble for transfer to and through
the extension system; and



ANNEX 7
Page 7
(f) In order to achieve maximum progress the national program
should concentrate on maize, sorghum, soybean, and cassava
but should also give such attention to the other crops as
necessary to ensure their effective use in improved crop
rotations or farming systems.
Organization and Management
20.       The research would be organized on the basis of coordinated
national programs for (a) maize; (b) sorghum; (c) soybean and other legumes;
(d) cassava and other tubers; and (e) cropping systems or multiple cropping.
21.       The main or National Center would have the following major
responsibilities:
(a)  In-depth research in plant breeding, pathology, entomology,
agronoty, soils, economics and other disciplines in a team
effort to address all limiting factors and potentials for
improving productivity of the crop;
(b) The evolution of improved cropping sequences and combina-
tions of crops for the different regions;
Cc) Leadership in planning and coordination of uniform trials
of varieties anfd cultural methods to be conducted at the
regional stations and at other selected locations. The
planning of such national trials should be handled through
annual workshops involving appropriate research workers
from the participating regional stations and other insti-
tutions; and
(d) The assembling and field testing of combinations of new
materials and practices by subject matter specialists.
This would involve (i) the evaluation of the new technology
at the National Center; (ii) field testing in selected re-
presentative farming areas to determine adaptability to
different soil and climatic variables; and (iii) conducting
training and information programs for research and principal
extension staff. The subject matter specialists would work
equally closely with the research staff in assembling the
new technology and with the extension personnel in facili-
tating its orderly and effective testing and transfer into
use through on-farm trials.
22.       The regional stations would give principal attention to:
(a) conduct of the national coordinated research trials
as planned with and coordinated by the National Center;



ANNEX 7
Page 8
(b)  research on those special problems affecting production
of the individual crops in the region, relating to soil
and water management, seasonal factors, insect, disease
and pest problems, etc.; and
(c)  liaison by the station subject matter specialists with
the research staff and extension personnel in the
assembling of innovations, the field testing, and
training and information programs as necessary to ex-
pedite farmer-use of the new technology.
23.       Extension and information centers would not fall under the
management of the program but would be continuously related and involved
through the linkage with the subject matter specialists of the National
Center. The extension/information-staff would be responsible for or
participate in:
(a) Adaptive trials for on-farm testing of promising new
crop varieties and cropping systems as evolved from
the research program;
(b) Seed multiplication and distribution of new palawija
crop varieties; and
(c) The pilot palawija BIMAS programs for new varieties
and practices.
The Research Program
24.       The research program would be crop-oriented with a national
research coordinating leader for each commodity group and for the cropping
systems research. Major attention would be given to:
(a) Varietal Development and Improvement
(i) Maize: Initial attention should be given to a collec-
tion of germplasm and crossing with local varieties
of different maturities. Since high lysine varieties
of the flinty endosperm type are available, nutritive
value should be studied as a part of the selection program,
with the high-lysine character incorporated in all
new releases. An additional prerequisite would be the
development and release of only downy mildew tolerant
material. Yield performance within maturity groups
would be necessary, to select varieties with the earlier
maturities required for palawija cropping before rice,
and to later maturities for high productivity in Lampung,
North Sumatra and other monoculture areas. Breeding
techniques to generate new varieties at the most rapid



ANNEX 7
Page 9
rate would be utilized but development of hybrids would
be explored also for the possible development of a hybrid
seed industry if conditions in the future Justify this
technique.
(ii) Sorghum: Varieties of potential adaptation from the
world collection of sorghum should be evaluated since
sorghum is still a crop to be exploited and considera-
ble latitude in acceptability should be possible. The
new high lysine selections should be immediately crossed
to UPCA S1, KD4 and other varieties that have shown
promise. Varietal evaluation would include screening
for insect and disease resistance, grain and fodder
yield and quality.
(iii) Soybean: More introductions from major collections
should be screened, with promising material evaluated
as varieties per se and also used in crossing programs
to quickly broaden the germplasm base upon which fur-
ther varietal improvement could be made. Special
attention should be given to those factors which have
particularly depressed yields of soybean in the tropics.
(iv)  Cassava:  Local and imported varieties should by evaluated,
and screened especially for pest and disease resistance.
Particular attention should be given to length of time
to maturity, flour content, quality characteristics of
thye product, and its suitability for various end-use
purposes.
(b) Agronomic Practices
(i) Maize and Sorghum: Agronomic studies would involve
plantings in monoculture and also fitting the more
promising new selections into various cropping systems.
Seed bed preparation, spacing, fertilizer use, water
management and weed control practices would be studied
in cropping systems in which maize and sorghum are
included.
(ii)  Soybean:  Soybean and other legumes should be fitted
into improved cropping systems with maize and sorghum.
Seed production and processing would need to be devel-
oped, with special attention to methods for maintaining
viability of seed for planting.
(iv) Cassava: Spacing, use of fertilizer, intercropping, and
the place of the crop in improved cropping systems, as
well as monocropping practices needs attention. Differencies



ANNEX 7
Page 10
in cultivation techniques in relation to drought, soil
texture and consistency, and soil moisture variables
should be studied.
(c) Plant Protection Research. The research entomologists and
pathologists would be important members of the crop research
teams since insects and diseases are especially severe in
crop production in the tropics. Major emphasis should be
on development of host plant resistance in collaboration
with the breeders. This would require development of
effective screening procedures for the principal insects
and diseases, with these techniques applied at early
stages in the plant selection process.  Control experi-
ments should be complementary to host plant resistance
studies and not a substitute since control by insecticides
without host plant resistance could be relatively ineffec-
tive, uneconomical, or require a level of expertise beyond
the capability of most farmers. Associated ecological and
epidemiological studies would be important to the under-
standing of insect and disease distribution and the utili-
zation of possible "crop escape" practices.
(d) Seed Maintenance and Multiplication. Preservation of seed
in the tropics is difficult at best and will be a key to
the supply of new varieties for introduction to farmers.
This may involve only adaptive research since knowledge
on preservation is generally available. The preservation
and systematic maintenance of pure seed of improved var-
ieties is frequently not accorded its true importance and
should be a major responsibility of the National Center
which would justify competent staff and proper harvesting,
processing and storage facilities.
Research Facilities
25.       An almost level 150 ha plot of GOI land adjacent to the recently
established 250 ha CRIA Sukamandi station has been chosen for the National
Center for Palawija Crops Research. This selection was based on the ready
availability of the land, its proximity to the proposqd National Center for
Rice Research, the suitability of the land for palawija crop experimentation
after land forming and drainage facilities have been installed, and
availability of irrigation water. Its proximity to the National Seeds
Corporation (NSC) main production and processing facility is another potential
asset, for although the NSC is exclusively concerned with rice seed production
at the present time, recent studies suggest that its production potential
exceeds the likely demand for rice seed, and production of palawija crop
seed could be easily accommodated and should improve the financial viability
of the enterprise.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
26.       A quarter meter contour survey and a detailed soil survey of the
150 ha site, and of the contiguous 250 ha CRIA station, should be carried
out as early as possible in order to confirm its suitability and to provide
a basis for designing the essential drainage and irrigation system and
preparing a field layout, buildings and roads plan. An irrigation canal
parallels the road frontage on the north side of the site while a small river
provides a -drainage outlet along the south boundary. A complete set of
buildings for offices, laboratories, greenhouses, service facilities, library,
conference rooms, etc., would be required, together with staff housing and
dormitories for trainees. Field and laboratory equipment and vehicles
would be needed.
27.       Four regional research stations would be selected to serve the
improvement of palawija crops in other regions of Java where present pro-
duction is intensive, as well as in South Sumatra and Sulawesi where future
potentials for these crops are excellent. The exact locations of the four
regional stations have not yet been agreed upon but it is expected that
these will be existing stations to be incorporated into ARD.
28.       The project would not provide for any new buildings and facilities
for the regional stations but would help to strengthen the stations through:
(a) staff development and training;
(b) field and laboratory equipment and vehicles;
(c) assistance with improvement of station management
and operations; and
(d) consultation by foreign scientists in specialized
fields who would be located at the National Center.
Staffing
29.       The Program Director, who would be in charge of the National Center
and its associated regional stations, would be an Indonesian scientist of
sufficient stature and ability. His appointment would be subject to Bank
approval. It is assumed that some of the presenit research staff concerned
with palawija crops would be available for the National Center and the
regional stations. However, it is recognized that the mobility of such
persons may be restricted for various reasons and staff development would
involve a substantial provision of advanced degree training to the M.Sc.
and/or Ph.D. level for a substantial number of the professional staff ex-
pected to be in place at the termination of the project. The estimated
staffing requirements for the National Center, together with the senior
and junior technical personnel to be considered for staffing for the four
regional stations, are presented in Table 3. This table excludes all field
labor, which will be supplied through the farm managers. All technical
services and other support for all aspects of work will be at the National
Center.



ANNEX 7
Page 12
Fellowships
30.       Training through the B.Sc. degree should be provided by Indonesian
universities. Similarly, it is expected that some advance degree training
to the M.Sc. degree can be furnished in a number of specialized fields at
the University of Indonesia, the Agricultural UTniversity at Bogor (IPB),
Gajah Mada University or other Indonesian institutions. MIost of the Ph.D.
level training will have to be done at foreigh universities during the
term of the project.
31.       The increased number of M.Sc. level personnel available in
recenrt years, as indicated in the CRIA summary (page 3), should provide
the base for early selection of some scientists ior Ph.D. training. It
is anticipated that substantial numbers of B.Sc. level graduates will be
coming out of the universities, which have been upgraded in recent years
to produce more specialized training and educatiOn in agriculture.
32.       It will be important to exercise critical selection of persons
for advanced training, not only on the basis of their academic records
but also in terms of their aptitude for research, their commitment to
research careers, their willingness to be posted at the Center or stations
where the research jobs are to be done and their adaptability to multi-
disciplinary team efforts. A selection board should assess fellowship
candidates and all potential awardees should have at least one year of
working experience in research before being considered for advanced training.
33.       In addition to the longer term training for advanced degrees,
there would be short-term professional improvement experiences for se-
lected staff members at CIMMYT for maize and ICRISAT for sorghum. Similar
opportunities would be provided for the Director of the Center and his
senior and more experienced scientists to gain experience and understand-
ing of research station and program management. New B.Sc. graduates as
well as some of the presently employed junior staff members for the Center
and the regional stations would be given on-the-job training at the Center,
not only to accelerate their useful involvement in research but also to
identify those with special talent and aptitude for research who would be
early candidates for advanced degree training.
Technical Assistance
34.       There is a definite shortage of agricultural research personnel
with the training and experience necessary to supply the conceptual, plan-
ning, coordinating and operational leadership necessary for national co-
ordinated problem-oriented, multi-disciplinary research.  This is evident
from the summary of the present research staff as presented by CRIA and
the small number of persons graded as senior scientists in the evaluation
of agricultural research personnel through the Fvaluation Committee (Annex
5, para 5). Also, the difficulty in setting up a National Rice Research
Program over the past three years suggests a lack of experienced research
leadership for such coordinated programs.



ANNEX 7
Page 13
35.        Foreign scientists would be provided for several special fields
under the project, including an experienced person in experiment station
field management and operations who would have high priority in view of the
loss of useful research results because of inadequate care and attention to
details in servicing field trials in many research stations in developing
nations. A foreign maize breeder and a sorghum breeder would furnish guidance
in setting up and implementing the national coordinated multi-disciplinary
team research for these two crops. A pathologist and an entomologist would
furnish competence in two of the disciplines most critical in increasing
levels and dependability of production. The availability of highly trained
and qualified Indonesian scientists in certain disciplines might cause some
change in the foregoing types of specialists but a minimum of five such per-
sons for periods of at least two years each would seem to be necessary for
effective development of the national palawija crops research program. In
addition, provision is made for a number of short term specialists who would
be appointed for varying periods, depending on the actual needs of the program
as determined during the life of the project.
36.        There is a mutual awareness on the part of GOI and the appraisal
team of the need for special attention in the selection of the foreign
specialists and in furnishing proper orientation prior to their assignment
in Indonesia. Similarly, there must be an appreciation by the participating
Indonesian research personnel of the role of experienced foreign scientists
in the development of a research program that will justify the substantial
investment in the project. The experience with the National Rice Research
Program demonstrates the importance of mutual understandings of the rela-
tionships with the external specialists. Their role would be as active
participating scientists with special attention to:
(a) the planning and conduct of priority research in their
respective disciplines at the National Center;
(b)  the planting of the national coordinated projects for
improvement of production of the selected crops;
(c) cooperation and guidance for the personnel at the re-
gional stations in carrying out the coordinated national
program experiments and also in planning the research on
localized problems; and
(d) furnishing the ongoing research competence that will be
necessary to release the Indonesian research staff for
their advanced training abroad.
37.       A Program Advisor would also be appointed as early as possible for
a 4-year term. He would work with the Director on the problems involved in
setting up the facilities and projects of the Center and in ensuring that
operating activities are effective. The Program Advisor would be a highly
experienced specialist in one of the program fields of specialization and
would engage at least part-time in his field of specialization.



ANNEX 7
Page 14
38.       Although the foreign scientists would be fully and directly
involved in their respective research disciplines and will supply active
leadership for research during the period of their assignment, it would
be understood that their primary objective would be to guide and train
their Indonesian colleagues so that the research would be viable and
self-sustaining under full Indonesian leadership at the end of the project.
Cost Estimates
39.       The cost for the National Research Program for palawija crops
for the five-year period would be approximately US$3.4 million, 1/ not
including the construction and equipment costs for the joint center for
rice and palawija crops, which has been costed into rice programs (Annex 6).
The estimated costs are summarized in Tables 4, 5 and 6.
D. Economic Benefits and Justification
40.       It is not possible to evaluate investments in research on a
narrowly conceived and precise basis of costs and returns. Well planned
and conducted agricultural research will include a majority of projects
that will yield steady incremental improvements -- a few that may produce
significant breakthrough -- and some that will be unproductive. In the
United States, corn improvement enjoyed the spectacular utilization of
hybrid vigor in the breeding and improvement research of a half century
ago. On the other hand, soybeans have emerged as a major economic crop
in the U.S. through a steady series of modest incremental improvements
through research in the relevant disciplines, with a doubling and redou-
bling of yields similar to that for corn. Research that is imaginative
and venturesome will invariably include a few projects that will fail.
41.       The prospects for improving palawija crop production through
intensive national coordinated, problem-oriented, multi-disciplinary
adaptive research - utilizing all available materials and methods avail-
able from CIMMYT, ICRISAT and other international sources - would appear
most promising in view of present national yield levels, the limited
current and past research attention to these crops, and the nature of
the problems subject to resolution through research.
42.       Measurable improvement in research capability'is certain to
accrue as the result of the training effort. The increased professional
competence from the in-service training programs and advanced degree train-
ing should have immediate application as well as a long term impact on re-
search capability and performance in the program.
1/   In constant 1975 terms, and excluding physical contingencies.



ANNEX 7
Page 15
43.       In the initial five-year period, research findings should create
a base for a much more effective extension program. Without this base and
a continuing research productivity, extension is relatively ineffective.
The subject matter specialists at the National Center, to provide a more
effective linkage of research with extension activities, should get research
findings into farmers' hands in the shortest possible time.
44.       Until varieties of high economic return become available, the
potential for a seed industry will continue to be limited. With the develop-
ment of new varieties a potential is laid for establishing a seed industry.
The improved trade in soybean and groundnut would then be sufficient incentive
for the development of a modest seed industry - a specialized agro-industry
that would be an important factor in the spread of new technology.
45.       Using Bank Group estimates of increases in production, by 1980,
increases in upland crop production could be:
3.0 million ton maize and sorghum;
0.4 million ton soybean.
For one year alone, this would have a value of US$125 M with the price of
maize at Rp 12/kg and soybeans at Rp 35/kg.
46.       The achievement of these production increases will require an
acceleration of extension efforts through the palawija BIMAS. The inten-
sified research effort should create new high yielding, high lysine, downy
mildew-tolerant maize varieties within a few years which should immediately
move into the BIMAS program. Sorghum varieties could be developed which
are high yielding and have high lysine as well. The more or less natural
spread of TIPCA Si to 6,000 ha indicates what could be accomplished with an
organized promotion effort.
47.       The improved nutrition from consumption of high lysine maize and
sorghum would have a particular impact on the poorer segment of society where
more coarse grains are consumed, especially in the health and well-being of
the children.
Attached: Tables 1 - 6
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDONi3IA
AGjRICULTURAL REEARCH AND EXTENSION
Palawija Crops Research Program
A ricultural Crops Area -
(millTon hectar&s
Paddy                                        8.2
hMaize                                        2.9
Cassava                                       i.4
Soybean                                      o.6
Groundnat                                    0.4
Sweet potato                                 0.4
Vegetables                                   0.2
Tobacco                                      0.1
SUgurC ane                                   0.1
'Total                                  14.3
1/     nlrrioLc.i  !,:-ricultural. Sector Survey Report, dated April 10, 1974,
Volume II, Annex 1, page 22.
June 7, 1974



ANNEX 7.
Table 2
INDON 3IA
AGRICIJLTURAL RE3EARCH AND EXTENION
Possible Growth in Yield, Area. and Prodact4ion of the Principal
Upland Crops and Paddy, 1970 - 19 70 1
1980 over 1971
1970      1971      1975       1980    Annual Increase
Maize & Sorghum
Area         (Million Ha)         3.02       2.69     3.50        4-00          4.50
Production   (Millionton)         2.89       2.14     4.00        5.00         10.60
Yield         (Qtl/Ha    )        9.6        7.9     11.5        12.5           5.2
Exports      (1,000 ton )                  250      500       1,000             ---
Soybean
Area          (M1illion Ha)       0.684      0.630    0.700       1.00          5.2
Production   (killion ton)        0.488      0.422    0.560       1.00         10.6
Yield         (Qtl/Ha    )        7.1        6.7      8.o        10.0           4.6
Exports      (1,000 ton )                            50 @       200-400 @
Groundnut
Area          (Million Ha)        0.402      0.413    0.450       0.500         2.1
Production   (Million taq         0.293      0.299    0.360       0.500         5.9
Yield         (Qtl/Ha    )        7.3        7.2      8.o        10.0           3.7
Exports       (1,000 ton)                            50@         75@
Cassava
Area          (Million Ha)        3.02       2.69     3.50        4.00          4.5
Prodl1cdion   (Million ton)       2.89       2.14     4.00        5.00         10.6
Yield         (Qtl/Ha    )        9.6        7.9     11.5        12.5           5.2
3xports      (1,000 ton )         ---      250      500       1,000             ___
.-weet Potato
Area          (M,illion Ha)       0.356      0.367    0.3?0       0.380         0.4
Prodaction   (,illion to4         3.03       2.58     3.145       3.50          3.4
Yield         ( Qtl/Ha   )       85.0       70.3     85.0        91.0           2.9
Paddy Area      (Million Ha)
High                             14.7       15.0      ---        18.6           2.4
Low                              14.7       15.0      ---        17.8           1.9
M:illed Rice Production
(Million ton)
High                             12.0       12.7     15.5        18.1           4.0
Low                              12.0       12.7     14.5        16.6           3.0
Per Capita Milled Rice
. Production (Kg/Capita)
High                            102.1      102.1    110.1       120.0           1.8
Low                             102.1      102.1    105.7       110.1           0.8
 Product Equivalent
1/   Indonesia Agricultural Sector Survey Report, dated April 10, 1974,
Vol. I, page 30
June 7, 1974



IIDONESIA                                      NE7
Table 3
AGIICULTUPAL SSEAtCH & EXTENSION
Pa.lawija Crons Research Program
1/
Staff List at Full Development
. /  Senior         Junior141   Clericnl
Professional-   Technicall/  Technical        GCeneral   Labor
(a)  National Center - SukamandlAt'
Administration
Program Director                      1               1             -             1
Program Advisor/Deputy                1              -              -             1
Secretary (Administration)            1               1             2             6
Accountant                            -               1             2             6
Farm Manager                          1               -             4             1        50
Farm Service Center                   -               1             2             1         4
Food Services                         -               -             2             -         4
Technical Services
Exoerimental Design & Statistics   -                  1             2             2         -
Economist                             1               1             2             3
Library                               -               1             1             2
Publications, Photography             1              1              1             3
Subject Matter Specialist             3              -              -             3         9
Cron Inmorovement
Breeder, Maize                        2              4              4             2
3rceder, Sorghum                      1              2              2             1
.reeder, Legumes                      1              2              2             1
3reeder, Tubers                       1              2              2             1         -
Patholog'ist                          2               2             2             1         5
Entomologist                          2               3             2             1
Cro, Production
Agronomist, Cereals                   1              2              2             2
A-ronomist, Legumes                   1              2              2             2
Agronomist, Tubers                    1              2              2             1
Agronomist, lNaltiple Crop            1               2             2             2
Agronomist, Weed Control              1               2             2             1
Agronomist, Seed Production           1              2              2             1
Soil Scientist                        1               2                           1         5
Water Management Specialist           1               2             2              1
Farr, Machinery Specialist            1              2              3             1         3
Cron Quality, Nlutrition
Chemist                               1               2             2             1         5
Physiologist                          1              2              2             1         5
Sub-total, National Ceitter          29             46            57             50       100
(b)  Regional Stations - 4
Farm iLqnager                         -               4             4                  -
B3reeder, Cereals                     -               4             4
Breeder, Lsgumes                      -              4              4
Breeder, Tubers                       -              14             1-
Pathologist                           -              4              4
Entomologist                          -              4              4-
Agronomist, Cereals                   -               4             4
Agronomist, Legumes                   -              4              4
Aigronomist, i'iultiple Cropping      -              4              4
Agronomist, 'eleed Control                           1 1            4
Sub-total, Regional Stations          -             40             40                       -
TOTAL                            29             86            97             50       100
1/ Year six of project.
2/ Professional -- 1.1.Sc., Ph.D. or equivalent capability at end of project.
3/  Senior Techmical -- B.Sc., or equivalent at end of project.
Junior Technical -- Agricultural High School or equivalent at end of project.
,/ Support for all aspects of work would be provided at Sukemandi.
October 30, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 4
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Palawija Crops Research Prozram
Project Cost 2
(Constant 1975 us$)
Percentage of
Foreign Exchange
Local      Foreign       Total         Component
Technical Services
Research Specialists             162,000      918,000     1,080,000          85%
Fellowships, Short-term              -         54,000        54,000         100%
Fellowships, Long-term            49,600      446,400       496,000           90%
Sub-total                  211,600   1,1418,400     1,630,000
Vehicles  /                         36,000       24,000        60,000          40%
Establishment Cost               1,660,000        __        1,660,000           --
Total                    1,907,600   1,442,400      3,350,000          43%
1/  No figure has been given here for capital input,  since some physical facilities
will be common to the rice and the palawija research center and their costs can
not be broken down between the two centers. The total cost of capital input for
the combined center is given in the corresponding table for the rice research center
(Annex 6, Table 4)j, except for automobiles for expatriate staff.
2/  See Table 5.
2/  Automobiles for research specialists engaged for one year or more (6).
4/  See Table 6.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Palawi.Ja Crops Research Program
Technical Services
RNmber      Unit Cost        Total
1iesearcA....2gaUstJ                       - .      --(Constant 1975 _US  --
~OiZ2g   A' k.:-it/Specialist for 4 years    1       240,000         240,000
Research $Socialists for 3 years          2          180,000        360,000
2                3          120-,000       360,000
6 months         3           30,000         90,000
3                2           15,000         3 0.000
Sub- - otal                                              - _       1,080,000
Fello-vships  Y t-tenn                       9           6,000          54,000
M'Sc: in la,:lkuesia                       4          10,000          40,000
M.Sc_ Aborc16                              9          24,000         216,000
Ph.D. Abroadi                              5          L8  000        240,000
Sub-total                                 18             -           496,000
TOTAL                                                -         1,630,000
j  The Program  Advisor would be appointed as early as possible in year one
in order to participate in program and civil works planning, and equip-
ment proc Aroment.  He would be appointed for 4 years in order
tc proride continuity. The remaining specialists would be appointed for
VL rying pariods, principally during the last three years of the project
ien resecarch facilities are completed. Provision is made for a large
nrmber of short-ten  specialists to provide consultative services in
specialized fields, especially towards the end of the program. The need
for flexibility in the type and period of residence of specialists is
recognized. 18 man-years of research specialist services would be
provided.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX7
Table 6
INDONESIA
AGRICUIXURAL RESEARCH AND XTENSION
PalawiJa Crops Research Program
Schedule of Establishment Cost
------------------------Project Year --------- ----
.1      aL                                          6      Total
Number of Professionals       14       14           22          26        29        29       _
Of which:
-  on fellowships              -         -           8          15        15        11       -
-  engaged in the program    14        14           14          11        14        18       -
------------(---------(onstant 1975 US$)--------------
Establishment Cost of    949000  420,000       420,000    330,000   420,000  540,000   2,224,000
the Program v/
Current Establishment
Cost   /                94,000   94,000       94,000     94,000    94,000   94.,000      564,000
Incremental Establish-
ment Cost                  -    326,000      326J000    236,000   326,000  446,000   1,660,000
2/  Commencing in the second year, a proportion of the professional staff will be
awarded fellowships to study either in Indonesia or abroad.
2/  In accordance with the experiences of international research centers, the
establishment cost has been calculated using a ratio of US$ 30,000 per professional
engaged in the program. For the first year, however, it was assumed that there
would be no change in the current establishment cost because of delays in starting
the program.
1/  Most of the research on palawija crops is currently carried out at CRIA.  This
institute however, deals with both rice and palawija and the breakdown of its
establishment cost between the two types of crops was not available. The
assumption is made that one third of CRIA routine budget was devoted to research
on palawija crops and two thirds to rice.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ItNDONES IA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
National Research Program for Highland Vegetables
A. Introduction
1.        A wide variety of horticultural (vegetable and fruit) crops is
grown in Indonesia and contributes a vital part of the Indonesian diet, whicl
is otherwise restricted largely to rice ar.d other starchy grains and root
crops. The minor importance of these crops in census compilations should
be considered a statistical abberation, because their culture is a diffuse,
indistinct, unorganized part of Indonesian agriculture with much of the
production not entering the money economy, and thus escaping census. How-
ever, interpolations made from production estimates variously list the
combined area devoted to vegetables and fruits at between 1.2 and 1.5 mil-
lion ha:
Crop                Hectares in 1000's (%)
(1972 estimate)   Java/Madura   Sumatra   Remainder            Total
Vegetables        585 (82%)    57 ( 9%)   59 ( 9%)        701 (100%)
Fruits            427 (60%)   122 (17%)  165 (23%)        714 (100%)
2.        The horticultural industry is located in four agroclimes based on
water distribution and temperature:
Lowlands:       up to about 300 meters
-Highlands:     600 meters and above
Wet:            no distinctive "dry" season, i.e. any
month with less than 40 mm of rain
Dry:            a distinctive "dry" season (5-7 months)
usually less than 2000 mm of rain per year.
3.        Because of the wide variation in ecologic conditions within the
country and the widespread distribution of horticultural crops, no single
research station can serve adequately the needs of the nation's horticul-
tural industry. A range of existing stations and substations provide
reasonably good coverage of the main agro climes (Table 1).



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The GOI, recognizing the importance of vegetables in the agricul-
tural economy, and the contribution which they make to tnational food supply,
nutrition and well being, has decided to upgrade the inidustry through emphasis
on research and development. The most commercialized sector of the industry
is in the highland vegetable areas of Java, together with two or three
secondary centers in Sumatra. In these areas, where holdings are typically
less than 1 ha, and the predominant system is intensive multiple cropping,
the production is responsive to changing market demand and there is more
adaptability and less reliance on traditional means of production than is
the case in the lowlands. Growers quickly respond to new varieties, new
pesticides and new systems of culture, and as a result are presently much
more accessible through conventional research and extension methods. For
these reasons, highland vegetable research deserves priority under the
project.
B. The Present Status of Research and Development
Personnel
5.        Before 1960, horticultural crops were merely an office in the
Directorate of Extension. In 1960 horticulture and food technology became
distinct units and in 1966 these were combined into the Horticultural Re-
search Institute (Lembaga Penelitian Hortikultura) with the headquarters
at Pasarminggu. In 1972 there were 741 permanent and 44 temporary staff
in the Horticultural Research Institute distributed as follows:
Number of Staff
Permanent        Temporary
M. Sc.                                   15               7
B. Sc.                                   24               7
Technicians (Agricultural High School) 22                21
Technicians (High School)                20               9
Total                               81              44
Laborers                                660               -
Facilities
6.        The institute is divided into a Central Station at Pasarminggu
with two branch stations (Margahayu and Malang) and a separate food tech-
nology laboratory at Jogjakarta. There are two highland sub-stations



ANNEX S
Page 4
12.       Research on propagation and evaluation of ornamentals was being
carried out at Pasarminggu including orchids, anthuriums, roses, and annuals.
EearMargahayu, extension gardens were collecting and distributing rose plants,
the collection was very large and well cared for.
13.       In general the research record is spotty.  The best example of a
research achievement is the apple program at Mialang. The research underway
at Margahayu with emphasis on vegetables seemed the most promising and shows
the positive results from active technical assistance of a Netherlands tech-
nical assistance program. The new research facility at Segunung on plant
protection was outstanding. This station has bnglv been completed recently
but field studies were underway on disease-free vegetable transplant produc-
tion. The research at Pasarminggu appeared most promising in tlhe ornamentals
area. In general, however, the atmosphere at Pasarminggu was depressing and
the station was rundown with neglected field facilities. The impression was
of an unfortunate waste of human resources (the station has about 360 staff
at all levels).
C. The Project
Special Considerations
4.        The project would establish a National Research Program for High-
land Vegetables and use the present branch station at Margahayu, close to
Lembang north of Bandung. The research at the new National Center to be
established at this site would emphasize production-oriented studies on high-
land vegetables. The National Center would be a prototype for other research
effort on other horticultural crops to be developed in the wet lowlands and
the high and low dry areas at a time when staffing and other essential pre-
requisites permit, but such research programs wfould not be components of the
project. The existing plant protection center, based at a horticultural
sub-station at Segunung, about 2 hours distant by road from Margahayu, which
has been considerably strengthened in recent years through a Dutch aid program,
will operate as an ancilliarv facility specializing in pest and disease
studies, with a view to later transfer of the research staff to Margahayu
and the further development of Segunung as a third regional station.
15.       The project encompasses an increase in professional and technical
personnel with supporting field labor, a technical assistance and a fellowship
program, a subject matter specialist linkage with extension, and improved
physical facilities, including two regional stations in other parts of
Indonesia.
16.       The National Center would be restricted to research activities;
it would not engage in propagation and distribution of plant materials to
farmers, except that it would serve as a source of foundation seed and



ANNEX 8
Page 3
one hour from Bogor (Cipanas and Segunung) and there are eight sub-sta-
tions associated with the Malang Branch station (4 lowland, 4 highland).
There is an experimental garden at Gurgur in North Sumatra.
Current Research
7.        Very little fruit research is being carried out in Indonesia.
Some collections of tropical fruits have been established in Pasarminggu
but at present the collection is barely maintained and there is little
evidence of active projects in the field with the exception of some minor
work on citrus nutrition.
8.        At lowland stations at the Malang branch there were two large
mango experiments underway. At Pandean a large mango yield trial (131 local
and 111 imported varieties) has been underway since 1941; four promising
selections (all local types) have been idintified. lExtensive data collected
on each tree since 1941 (including the Japanese occupation) has never been
collated, analyzed, or published. At Cukurgondang, another lowland substation,
a trial was in progress using the four mango selections identified at Pandean,
each with six rootstocks. Promising combinations have been identified. At
the Banjarsari experimental gardens, two hectares are reserved for grape
variety studies. "Alphonso Lavallee 2" was selected as the most promising
variety from previous trials. A banana trial was underway at the Margahayu
branch station.
9.        At the highland substations associated with the Malang branch,
an active and very promising program was carried out on apple. This
appears to be the best example of fruit research in Indonesia. Since 1963,
when a local resident (J. Kribben at Batu) succeeded in developing a method
to culture apples, a combination of research studies, extension effort, and
local farmer ingenuity has resulted in a significant local apple industry.
In Batu, the most important of four regions in East Java, 1,200,000 trees
have now been planted, with the industry presently in an expansion phase.
As many apples are imported in Indonesia, there is considerable room for
continued expansion and development.
10.       Vegetable research is underway at a number of highland stations.
These include studies on garlic ("seed" program at Malang), tomato breeding
(at Cipanas), potato "seed" program and various studies on vegetable produc-
tion. The most active programs were carried out at Margahayu. A fertilizer
trial was underway at Banjussari (Malang branch), a lowland substation.
11.       Food technology research was observed at Pasarminggu and at the
Margahayu station. The laboratories combine post-harvest and processing
studies including various exploratory studies on cider, pickles, papain
extraction, and wine making (from fermented tomato pulp obtained from seed
extraction). The research seemed marginal at best. At Margahayu simazine
treatment experiment on bean to increase protein content (after work of
S.K. Reis, 'Iichigan State University, East Lansing) and confirm his previous
promising results was underway.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
stock for use and distribution by other agencies. It would not be a diag-
nostic laboratory for routine samples but would serve as a resource base to
develop these services. It would also not include food processing but would
include post-harvest handling, marketing, and economics. The program would
be limited in crop species to include crucifers, Solonaceous crops, and beans.
Organization and Management
17.       The Program Director, who would be in charge of the National Center
and its associated regional stations, would be an Indonesian scientist of
sufficient stature and administrative ability. His appointment-would be
subject to Bank approval.
18.       The Director would be assisted by a Program Advisor who would under-
take the role of research programs administrator. He would be recruited
directly or through international or bilateral assistance. He would assist
the Director on research plans and programs.
19.       The research would be organized on the basis of coordinated national
programs for the principal highland vegetable crops, utilizing the staff and
facilities at the National Center and two regional stations, in the manner
outlined for Palawija crops (Annex 4). Linkage with the extension service
and with the agricultural information centers would be continuously maintained
through the subject matter specialist on the staff of the National Center.
The Research Program
20.       Research would emphasize the following crop groups:
Crucifers    -  cabbage, Chinese cabbage, cauliflower
Solanaceae   -  potato, tomato
Beans        -  Phaseolus dry bean and snap bean
21.       The research program would cover all production phases including
seed production, selection, introduction (or breeding where appropriate),
culture, harvesting, post-harvest handling and marketing short of processing.
22.       Research priorities would be to reduce production costs, increase
yields and quality, and increase returns and profits to growers. Emphasis
would also be placed on marketing, transportation and flow through the mar-
keting channels with special consideration to movement within Indonesia as
well as the export market in South East Asia.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
23.       The researclh progran would be based on specific projects submitted
by the Program Director aided by his professional staff, and results would be
disseminated through an annual report, reputable scientific journals, research
bulletins and extension programs and publications developed by the extension
specialist on the staff of the Center.
Specific Commodity Programs
24.       Potato.  The potato is an ideal highland crop and much favored in
Indonesia where it is consumed as a vegetable rather than as a starchy staple.
Its storage qualities makes it particularly suited to the tropics.  The
limiting factor in the expansion of potato production in Indonesia is a
source of disease-free "seed" stock largely becaube of soil pathogens --
nematodes, bacterial wilt, Fusarium wilt, as well as late blight and early
blight. The present system of culture is based on continued importation of
clean seed from Europe with irregular local seed increase. The first priority
would be to develop a self-sustaining `seed' program.  Such a program has
already been initiated by fletherlands aid and is presently underway at the
UIargahayu station. With about 14,000 hectares of potatoes there is a potential
market of 28,000 tons of good seed per year, and more with expansion of the
industry.  With sufficient researc! underpinnings the seed production phase
could develop into a substantial hiighland industry and greatly reduce the
dependence on imported seed.
25.       Tomato.  The mlain problem in tomato production is disease control
particularly the soil pathogens, as in potato, and, especially bacterial wilt.
Most of the crop in 1973 at Cipanas wias a total failure because of the
increasing buildup of soil pathogens. The main research approach would be
an active breeding program to develop adaptable disease resistant lines for
fresh market production.  dIybrids might be. of value for staked tomatoes, the
main Droduction system in Indonesia, as thev are for greenhouise tomatoes in
temperate areas.  The possibility exists for the development of a hybrid
seed program for export. Development or isolation of a pool of disease
resistant lines would permit rapid seed clhanges possible in specific regions
and areas in response to the disease situation. Other cultural systems for
disease control should be investigated. This includes the production of
grafted plants using the disease resistant 'natural' Solanums as rootstocks
for special situations. Finally, methods to produce healthy transplants with
disease-free soil might increase yields.  The possibilivy of a tomato pro-
cessing industry should be explored from unstaked plantings in the dry areas.
T'hiis could involve the development of a new industry for Indonesia.
26.       Crucifers.  Crucifers grow well in hiighland areas.  The-main problem
to be overcome is one of riarketing and long distance transport. European
cabbagc is one of Indonesia's chief export vegetables.  Priority research
would involve the development of marlketing procedures, particularly handling
and transnort.  This shotld involve the development of export -rades, and
general economic research.  Seed is inexpensive and will probably continue
to be imported but evaluation trials should be maintained to locate a more
stiitablo exTort type of both green and red types.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
27.       Bean.  Low yields, particularly of the seed crop and therefore
of the dry seeded types, are the principal problem of highland beans.  The
problem may be genotype and an extensive evaluation of local germplasm and
importations should be carried out along with studies on cultural prac-
tices. A bean germplasm hank should be established. The aim would be to
identify more productive genotypes and possibly higher protein types.
Research Facilities
28.       The present West Java branch station near Bandung (known as the
Margahayu Experimental Gardens) would be developed as the National Center
for highland vegetable research. This selection was based on the importance
of this area for the commercial production of highland vegetables and also
for its proximity to Bandung, the provincial capital of West Java which has
ready access by air, rail, and paved road.
29.       The site is 5 km from the village of Lembang, and 17 km from Bandung.
The station already has an active research program and is the recipient of
bilateral aid by the Netherlands Government since 1970 which, until mid-1974,
supported three advisers (two in vegetable culture, and one in potato "seed"
production). In addition support has been provided by the Netherlands Gov-
ernment to establish a plant protection center at Segunung, a substation
between Bandung and Bogor. A Netherlands plant pathology and entomology
adviser are presently stationed at Segunung with support for virology and
nematology forthcoming. This facility, which is well equipped and does not
require any civil works improvements, will be considered an ancilliary part
of the National Center (see para 14).
30.       The station at M1argahayu, with substantial assistance from the
Netherlands technical assistance personnel, has developed an active research
program in a number of highland vegetable crops, particularly "seed' pro-
duction in potato, seed technology of vegetables and highland land use and
farming methods. The station has a contiguous area of 41 lha and an addition-
al 13 ha of potential experimental land on three separate plots within 3 km
of the station.  The largest of these plots (Cikole II, 7 ha in extent) is
presently used as a military training ground, but will be returned to the
station in 1975. The land at Margahayu is gently to moderately sloping and
naturally well drained, typical of that used for vegetable production by
farmers in the surrounding areas.  Most of the land is well shaped and ideal
for experivental purposes.
31.       A food technology and postharvest handling laboratory on a 2 iha
narcel is located 4 kl from the main station, close to the village of Lembang.
T4e present research branchi containis a large administration building (1,020
m' of floor snace) that is presently user! for offices, temporary research
space and storage (including potato storage). A new greenhouse lhas just been
completed.  The complex has a power and water supply and a nuriber of
outbuildincgs, including living quarters for tlie 2'tation Director and Farei
%'anager.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
32.       The University of Bandung has an agricultural faculty.  Interest
was expressed by the Director of the Faculty in emphasizing horticulture
because of the importance of this agricultural discipline to the immediate
region.
33.       Additional buildings for laboratories, offices, seed and potato
storage including cold storage, staff quarters, greenhouses and field work-
shops, together with reconstruction of existing buildings, particularly the
administration building, would be provided through the project. The greater
part of these civil works would be constructed on the Margahayu site, near
the existing buildings, but storage facilities and a limited number of tech-
nicians quarters would be built on the outlying plots. The unutilized portion
of the 2 ha postharvest handling laboratory plot would be especially suitable
for the construction of technicians quarters. Field and laboratory equipment
and vehicles would also be provided.
34.       Two regional stations, one of which would be in Sumatra, would be
selected to serve the program. The exact locations of the regional stations
has not yet been agreed upon but it is expected these will be existing
stations to be incorporated into ARD.
35.       The project would not provide for any extensive new buildings
and facilities for the regional stations but would help to strengthen the
stations through:
(a) staff development and training;
(b) field and laboratory equipment and vehicles;
(c) assistance with improvement of station management
and operations; and
(d) consultation by the technical assistance research
specialists in the specialized fields who would
be located at the National Center.
Staffing
36.       It is assumed that many of the present research staff concerned
with highland vegetables would be available for the National Center and the
regional stations. However, it is recognized that the mobility of such
persons may be restricted for various reasons and staff development would involve
a substantial provision of advanced degree training to the M.Sc. and/or Ph.D.
level for a substantial number of the professional staff expected to be in
place at the termination of the project. The estimated staffing requirement
for the National Center, together with the professional and senior technical
personnel to be considered for training for the two regional stations, are
presented in Table 2. All technical services and other support for all
aspects of work will be at the National Center.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Fellowships
37.       Training through the B.Sc. degree should be provided by Indonesian
universities. Similarly, it is expected that some advance degree training
to the M.Sc. degree can be furnished in a number of specialized fields at
the University of Indonesia, the Agricultural University at Bogor (IPB).
Gajah Hada University or other Indonesian institutions. Most of the Ph.D.
level training will have to be done at foreign universities during the
term of the-project.
38.       The increased number of M.Sc. level personnel available in recent
years should provide the base for early selection of some scientists for
PM.D. training. It is anticipated that substantial numbers of B.Sc. level
graduates will be coming out of the universities, many of which have been
upgraded in recent years to produce more specialized training and education
in agriculture.
39.       It will be important to exiercise critical selection of persons
for advanced training, not only on the basis of their academic records but
also in terms of their aptitude for research, their commitment to research
and to research careers, their willingness to be posted at the Center or
stations where the research jobs are to be done and their adaptability to
multi-disciplinary team efforts. A selection board should assess fellowship
candidates and all potential awardees should have at least one year of
working experience in research before being considered for advanced training.
Fellows would be expected to serve at least one year of service for each
year of training support.
40.       In addition to the longer term training for advanced degrees,
there would be short-term professional improvement exercises for selected
staff members at the Asian Vegetable Research Center, and other Asian Centers.
Similar opportunities would be provided for the Director of the Center and
his senior and more experienced scientists to gain experience and understanding
of research station and program management. New B.Sc. graduates as well as
some of the presently employed junior staff members for the Center and the
regional stations would be given on-the-job training at the Center, not only
to accelerate their useful involvement in research but also to identify those
with special talent and aptitude for research who would be early candidates
for advanced degree training.
Technical Assistance
41.       Because of the shortage of trained and experienced agricultural
research personnel within Indonesia, technical assistant research specialists
would be provided for several special fields under the project. These
foreign personnel would be additional to the Netherlands technical assistance
personnel (three plant protection specialists based at Segunung, and a
horticulturist, based at Margahayu) who are likely to continue until 1976
under current technical assistance plans. High priority would be given to
an economist and a post-harvest physiologist because of the inadequate
attention given to production economics and the problems of transportation



ANNEX 8
Page 10
and marketing by the institute in the past, and the importance of these
subjects to the industry. A breeder would furnish guidance in setting up
and implementing the national coordinated multi-disciplinary team research
for the crop improvement program and an agronomist would do likewise for
the crop production aspects.
42.       The availability of highly trained and qualified Indonesian scien-
tists in certain disciplines might cause some change in the foregoing types
of specialists but a minimum of four such persons for periods of between 2
and 4 years would seem to be necessary for effective development of the
national highland fruits and vegetable research program. In addition a
Program Advisor, who would be a specialist in a relevant field, and would
engage at least part-time in his field of research specialization, would be
engaged as soon as possible for a minimum period of 2 years, with a view to
possible extension for a maximum of five years.
43.       The Program Advisor would work with the Program Director on the
problems involved in setting up the facilities of the Center and in ensuring
that project operating activities are effective. The Program Advisor would
be a highly experienced specialist in one of the program fields of speciali-
zation and would engage at least part-time in his field of specialization.
44.       Although the foreign scientists would be fully and directly
involved in their respective research disciplines and will supply active
leadership for research during their assignment, it would be understood
that their primary objective would be to guide and train their Indonesian
colleagues so that the research would be viable and self-sustaining under
full Indonesian leadership at the end of the project. Felowship and
technical assistance details are summarized in Table 4.
Cost Estimates
45.       The cost for the national research program for highland vegetables
for the five-year period would be approximately US$4.8 million. 1/ The
estimated costs are summarized in Table 3, 4 and 5.
D. Economic Benefits and Justification
46.       Among the benefits which should accrue from a well planned and
conducted research program as proposed for highland vegetables through the
project are:
(a) An oncoming stream of well trained professionals who
will direct vegetable research for the nation until
the beginning of the next century;
1/   In constant 1975 terms, and excluding physical contingencies.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
(b) Development of a basic research infrastructure, flexible
enough to expand research capabilities in vegetable
research to both inner and outer Indonesia;
(c) Creation of a national vegetable seed industry which
will reduce the importation of all but long day crops.
In addition, Indonesia should emerge as an export seed
producer of speciality crops, especially those that may
require intensive culture such as hybrid tomato;
(d) Self-sufficiency in seed potato production;
(e) Doubling of potato production from 70,000 tons to
140,000 tons;
(f) An increase in the production of tomato and snap bean
by 10% per year. Present production of each crop is
about 30,000 tons;
(g) Tripling of the export market of fresh vegetables to
South East Asia, presently about 20,000 tons per year;
(h) National confidence in vegetable research capability;
and
(i) Emergence of horticulture as a leader in Indonesian
agriculture. At the present time horticulture is losing
its prestige to the extent that at Bogor the entire 1973
graduating class in horticulture is only 7 and is made
up entirely of women students. In five years the
graduating class should at least triple and hopefully
parity will be resumed.
Attached: Tables 1 - 5
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Location of Horticultural Research Stations and Substations
Horticultural
Research Station
Agro-clime          or  Substation             Typical Fruit and Vegetable Crops
Low Wet         Pasarminggu,   W. Java         Fruits     : tropical
Vegetables : shallot, chilli,
cowpea
High Wet        Margahayuu,     W. Java)
Cipanas,        W. Java)      Fruits   ./: avocado, citrus
Segunung,       W. Java)      Vegetables : European types
Gurgur,      N. Sumatra)
Low Dry         Pandean         E. Java)
Kraton          E. Java)      Fruit       : mango
Cukurgondang    E. Java)      Vegetables : shallot
Banjussari      E. Java)
High Dry        Banaran         E. Java)
Punten          E. Java)      Fruits   1/:  apple, citrus
Tlekung         E. Java)      Vegetables : European types, garlic
Klurar          E. Java)
1/  Principal highland vegetables include cabbage, Chinese cabbage, cauliflower,
potato, tomato, leek, onion, garlic, carrot, radish (Japanese type), and
bean (Phaseolus)
Oct. 30, 1974



INDONESIA                                 ANNEX 8
Table 2
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Highland Vegetables Research Program
Staff List at Full DeveloEment/
Senior /   Junior        Clerical
Professional/ Technical-  Technical    & General   Labor
(a)  National Center - Margahayi5
Administration
Program Director                     1              1            -            1          -
Program Adviser/Deputy               1              1                         1
Secretary (Administration)           1              1            1            3          -
Accountant                           -              1            1            3          -
Farm Manager                         1              -            3            1         40
Farm Service Center                  -              1            2            -          3
Food Services                        -              -            2            -          2
Engineer                             1              -            3            2          6
Technical Services
Experimental Design & Statistics    1               1            1            2          -
Economist-Production                 1              1            1            2          -
Economist-Marketing                  1              1            1            2          -
Library                              -              1            1            1          -
Publications, Photography            1              1            1            2          -
Subject Matter Specialist            1              1            1            1          3
Crop Improvement & Seed Production
Breeder                              2              2            2            2          -
Seed Technologist                    2              2            4            2          _
Pathologist                          1              1            1            1          -
Entomologist                         1              1            1            1          -
Physiologist                         1              1            1            1          -
Crop Production
Soil Scientist                       1              1            1            1          3
Water Management Specialist          1              1            1             1         3
Agronomist                           2              2            2            2          -
Post Harvest Physiolog' (Quality)
Physiologist                         1              1            1            1          2
Engineer/Food Technologist           1              1            1            1          2
Sub-total, National Center          23             24           33           34         64
(b)  Rezional Stations - 2. at sites to be designated
Farm Manager                         -              2            2
Crop Improvement
Plant Breeders                       -              2            2            -          -
Pathologist                          -              2            2            -          -
Entomologisb                         -              2            2            -          -
Crop Production
Soil Management                      -              2            2            -          -
Water Management                      -             2            2
Agronomy                             -              2            2            _          _
Sub-total, Regional Stations         -             14           14            -          -
TOTAL                           23             38          47            34         64
1J  Year six of project.
/  Professional -- M.Sc., Ph.D. or equivalent capability at end of project.
# Senior Technical -- B.Sc., diploma or equivalent at end of project.
Junior Technical -- Agricultural High School or equivalent at end of project.
Support for all aspects of work would be provided at Margahayu  and its ancillary
facility to be developed at the plant protection center at Segunung where two
professionals (entomologist and pathologist) together with a complement'of
technical and clerical staff will be based. Eventually, the Segunung station
will be developed as an additional regional station and the plant protection
staff transferred to Margahayu.
Oct. 30, 1974



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Highland Vegetables Research Program
Project Cost
(Constant 1975 US$)
Percentage of
Foreign Exchange
Local      Foreign       Total            Component
Capital Input 1/
Building, Services,.
Utilities & Housing        686,400      457,600    1,144,000             40%
Research Equipment            28,200      253,800       282,000            90%
Furniture                      4,900        2,100         7,000            30%
Farm Development 2/           36,000       12,000        48,000            25%
Field Equipment -7            33,000       33,000        66,000            50%
Vehicles  T_                   7,200       64,800        72,000            90%
- Research Specialists  /   30.000         20,000       50x000            4C%
Sub-total                    825,700      843,300    1,669,000
Technical Services 6
Research Specialists        162,000       918,000    1,080,000             85%
Fellowships, Short-term         --         42,000       42,000            100%
Fellowships, Long-term        39,000      351,000      390,000             90%
Sub-total                   201,000    1,311,000    1,512,000
Establishment Cost ./        1,595,000        --       1,595,000
Total                     2,621,700    2,154,300    4,776,000              45.1%
1/  Details on this component are given in Annex 17, Table 7.  The costs
given here are without design and construction contingencies.
2/  Based on an estimate of US$2,000 per professional (24 professionals).
3/ Based on an estimate of US$2,750 per professional.
4/ Based on an estimate of US$3,000 per professional.
:/  Automobiles for research specialists engaged for one year or more (5).
6/  See Table 4.
7/  See Table 5.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 4
INDONES IA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSICN
Highland Vegetables Research Program
Technical Services
Unit Cost     Total
1/            ~~Number    _0S$         (US$)
Research Specialists-'
Program Advisor/Specialist for 4 years      1      2h0,000     240,000
Research Spe6ialists for 4 years            2      240,000     480,0oo
it       II      1"  2 years           2      120,000      240,000
of     1"  6 months          3       30,000      90,000
t       it"  3 months        2       15,000      30,000
Sub-total                         -         -       1,080,000
Fellowships Short-term                       7        6,000      42,000
Fellowships Long-term
M.Sc. in Indonesia                          3       10,000      30,000
M.Sc. Abroad                                7       24,000     168,000
Ph.D. Abroad                               4        48,000     192,000
Sub-total                        14          -        390,000
TOTAL                             -           -    1,512,000
1/  The Progran Adviser would be appointed at an early stage in the project
and would remain through the life of the project. Other research
specialists would be appointed for varying periods, depending on the
actual needs of the program, as determined during the life of the
project. One long-term specialist (2 to 4 years) would be associated
with each of the four principal research groups: Technical Services,
Crop Improvement and Seed Production; Crop Production and Post Harvest
Physiology. About 18 man-years of technical specialist services would
be provided.



ANNEX 8
Table 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RSMEARCH AND EXTENSION
Highland Vegetables Research Program
Schedule of Establishment Cost
-________---_-_ Project Year -------------------
1        2        3         i        5        6           Total
Number of Professionalsi!         11       11       19        22       24        24        __
Of which:
- on fellowship               --       --          7        10       12        9         --
- engaged in the program        11       11       12        12       12       15         __
Establishment Co t of the
Program (US$)2'            53,000  330,000  360,000  360,000  360,000  450,000    1,913,000
Current ystablishment Cost
(US$)J                     53,000   53,000   53,000   53,000   53,000   53,000         318,000
Incremental Establishment
Cost (Us$)                    --    277,000  307,000  307,000  307,000  397,000    1,595,000
j   Commencing in the second year, a proportion of the professional staff will be
awarded fellowships to study either in Indonesia or abroad.
2/  In accordance with the experiences of international research centers, the
establishment cost has been calculated using a ratio of US$30,000 per professional
engaged in the program. or the first year, however, it was assumed that there
would be no change in the current establishment cost because of delays in starting
the program.
2/ The current establishment cost has been taken as the operating budget for the
existing horticulture station at Lembang.
February 10, 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONES IA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
National Research Program for Rubber
A. Introduction
1.        Indonesia produces roughly 800,000 tons of rubber per annum or
27% of the world's total, and is the second largest producer. In 1970 the
value of rubber exports (US$213 million) constituted approximately 56% of the
value of all agricultural exports or 21% of the value of all exports for
that year, and is thus an important foreign exchange earner which should
be protected and promoted. Domestic consumption of rubber is relatively
small at approximately 35,000 tons per annum largely for the manufacture
of tires and tubes. Consumption may be expected to increase in the future.
2.        The major regions and areas of production inside Indonesia are
given in Table 1 which indicates that about 71% is produced by smallholders.
3.         It is estimated that the area under rubber will increase by roughly
1% per annum and the production by 2 - 3% per annum to 1980. There is,
hiowever, considerable scope thereafter for further increases in production,
through the application of research findings to currently established rubber
anrd to rubber to be established by replanting of worn-out areas, particularly
those of smallholders.
4.         It is against this background that the GOI recognizes the need to
establish a National Center for Rubber Research at a site representative of
the rubber growing areas of North Sumatra, which is the major rubber producing
region of the country.
5.        The site recommended after reviewt of all major facilities, is at
Sungei Putih Estate near PNP V Headquarters at Sungei Karang. This 2,250
ha property would provide the land for the experimental plantation and other
facilities for the Center. Its selection is based on its location on a
major soil type in an area of substantial rubber production. Further, it
lies at a distance of only 48 km from Medan, a large university city. Rubber
research conducted at the BPPM, BPPB and the Tanjung Morawa Rubber Research
station, as well as at other organizations, will be incorporated into the
National Program for Rubber Research and staff transferred after completion
of the civil works construction program for the Center.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B. Present Status of Research and Development
Historical Background
6.        Rubber Research in Indonesia has been primarily carried out in
Java and Sumatra. In Java it was first carried out under the auspices of
Centrale Proefstation Verevniging (CPV) at the Indonesische Instituut voor
Rubber Onderzoek at Bogor. In 1969 this was converted to the Research
Institute for Estate Crops (RIEC) under the control of the Directorate General
of Estate Crops (which in turn was responsible to the Minister of Agriculture)
and financed by Ministry Grant. The Institute at Bogor is now known as the
Bogor Estate Crops Research Institute (Balai Penilitian Perkebunan or BPPB)
and is financed by Cess.
7.        Research on rubber in Sumatra was first carried out at the
Algemene Proefstation voor Rubberplanters Oostkust Sumatra (AVROS) which
was founded in 1915 and supported by voluntary contributions from rubber-
growers. AVROS became the Research Institute of the Sumatran Planters
Association (RISPA) in 1958. This came under the auspices of the Ministry
of Agriculture in 1966 and was financed by compulsory contributions. In
1969 RISPA was converted to the Medan Estate Crops Research Institute
(Balai Penelitian Perkebunan Medan or BPPM) and financed by Cess.
8.       - Rubber research in Indonesia was also carried out by research
stations financed by private plantation companies. Prominent among these
was the Plantations Research Department of the Hollandsche Amerikaansche
Plantage Maatschappij (HAPM, now Uniroyal) at Kisaran, Sumatra. Research
by the private sector within Indonesia has now fallen into desuetude.
Current Situation
9.        In general, rubber research is mediocre in all centers and well
over half the activities is in service and regulatory functions and not
in research. It is now mainly carried out under the auspices of the Council
for Estate Crops Institutes Bogor and Medan (Dewan Pembina BPP Bogor dan
Medan) which control both BPPB and BPPM. Some of the Government owned
estates also conduct small amount of research on their own properties,
related to the special problems of their localities.
10.       The Council is responsible to the Minister of Agriculture.  The
Chairman of the Council is the Director General of Estate Crops and repre-
sentatives of the Central Cess Board (Badan Usuran Cess or BUC) and the
PNP's/PTP's are members of the Council. The Council also controls a third
organization, namely the Tea and Cinchona Research Institute at Rancabalong,
West Java.
11.       The BPPB and BPPM are chiefly financed (at the rate of about
Rp 175 million per annum each for routine budget) from the Central Cess



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Board and to a certain extent from the local Cess offices for regional
projects. The professional staff of the BPPB and BPPM (Senior Research
Workers, Research Workers and Assistant Research Workers) are subject
to assessment and approval by the Indonesian Institute for Sciences (Lembaga
Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesian or LIPI).
12.       The Government owned PNP's/PTP's operate the Rubber Research
Center at Tanjung Morawa, North Sumatra (RRC/Tanjung Morawa) on a joint
support basis. The RRC is controlled by a Special Board of the PNP's/
PTP's (Badan Khusus Urusan PNP/PTP) which is headed by the Minister of Agri-
cui'ture and assisted by the Director General of Estate Crops and the Secre-
tary General of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Estate Crops Research Institute, Bogor (BPPB)
'7
13.       The offices and laboratories ot the BPPB are located in the old
buildings of the CPV. These offices and laboratories are extensive but
rambling. The Director of BPPB has a staff at Bogor of 7 senior research
workers, 8 research workers and 5 assistant research workers. The area
served by the BPPB includes Southern Sumatra (Sumatra Selatan, Lampung
and Bengkulu Provinces), Java, Kalimantan and Sulawesi. The crops under
investigation include rubber, tea, cinchona, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, etc.
14.       The Institute has three divisions, namely Technology, Standard
Indonesian Rubber and Crop Production. The Technology Division has the
following laboratories relevant to work on rubber:
Leaf and soil analysis.
General chemical analysis (for fertilizers, etc.).
Rubber sampling.
Chemical testing of rubber and rubber latex.
Physical testing of raw and vulcanized rubber.
15.       The Standard Indonesia Rubber (SIR) Division has recently
been organized to deal with the analysis, cross-check and certification
of Standard Indonesian Rubber. There are or will be SIR laboratories
under the control of Bogor and situated as follows:
Java:           Bogor, West Java.
Sumatra:       South Sumatra, Lampung, Bengkulu.
Kalimantan:    West, Mid and South Kalimantan.
16.       The Crop Production Division has sections dealing with the
following:
Agronomy (fertilizer, tapping, upkeep).
Botany and selection.
Plant Protection.
Economics.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Experiments are carried out on a co-operative basis on estates in the
areas served by the BPPB.
17.       A Small Experimental Garden for rubber is currently maintained
by BPPB at Ciomas About 3 km from Bogor. This garden serves chiefly for
the maintenance of a genotype collection and hence also for the provision
of planting material for the area served by the BPPB. It is the intention
to discard this garden and transfer its functions to a new branch station
of BPPB at Sembawa near Palembang, South Sumatra.
18.       Sembawa was originally set up in 1937 as a center for provision
of rubber planting material, especially seed, for distribution to surround-
ing planters. It belongs to the Local Government but would be gifted to the
BPPB and developed as a branch station under the proposal. It lies at a
distance of 29 km from Palembang and currently has an area of 700 ha planted
chiefly with clonal rubber and 2,300 ha of reserve land currently under
secondary forest. The only permanent buildings at present are a guest house
and general storage building. It is currently under the control of an acting
manager. Since the two most important estate crops in Southern Sumatra are
rubber and coffee it is the present intention of the BPPB to carry out
investigations on both these crops at Sembawa. However, the areas where
coffee is grown lie at some distance from Sembawa in the western hills, so
Sembawa may not be wholly relevant to coffee research. It is proposed by
BPPB that the Sembawa branch station should in the long term serve the whole
of Southern Sumatra (Sumatra Selatan, Lampung, Jambi and Bengkulu). It is
relevant to the development of Sembawa that two technical assistance projects
are currently based at Palembang. One is a FAO project concerned with Soil
and Water Resources Development in South East Sumatra, while the second is
a British ODA project concerned with a survey of smallholder rubber (725,000
ha) and methods of improving the rubber plantings, rubber exploitation and
the preparation of rubber for marketing.
19.       The BPPB publishes in the Indonesian language the journal "Menara -
Perkebunan" (successor to 'De Bergcultures" originally published in the
Dutch language). This contains among other matter contributions on rubber
research by the staff of BPPN and by outsiders.
20.       The BPPB maintains a branch station at Jember, East Java.  The
Assistant Director of this station is supported by a professional staff of
three research workers and two assistant research workers. The Jember
buildings are old (1908) and not extensive, there being'about 17 rooms to
serve as offices and laboratories. The library has about 10,000 volumes,
mostly old material, but there is a reasonably good current subscription
list.  The laboratories are equipped for chemical analysis, soil survey
work and leaf and soil analysis. Jember is somewhat isolated, the nearest
airport being Surabaya, distant about 4 hours by road travel.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
21.       Jember branch station maintains an experimental garden at Kali-
wining which is 18 km from Jember.   This garden is roughly 45 m above sea
level and consist of 160 ha of flat, principally low-humic gley soil.
Much of the area is under rubber but there is some coffee and cocoa and a
little tobacco. It is adjacent to Renteng Estate of PTP XXIII which is well
specialized in cocoa. Neither coffee nor rubber is typically grown on low-
land gley soils in East Java. Experiments on rubber clonal behaviour,
manuring and upkeep, and tapping are carried out at the Kaliwining Garden
and on a co-operative basis on estates in East Java served by the Jember
Branch.
Estate Crops Research Institute, Medan (BPPM)
22.       The offices and laboratories of BPPM are located in the old
(1919) buildings of AVROS plus some newer additions including one
completed in 1973. The Director of BPPM is assisted by a staff of six
senior research workers and 14 research workers. The area served by BPPM
includes northern and western Sumatra (Aceh, North Sumatra, Riau and West
Sumatra).
23.       The BPPM has the following Divisions in which research relevant
to rubber is undertaken:
Breeding and Agronomy.
Plant Protection.
Soils and Plant Nutrition (including leaf and soil analysis).
Technology (including chemical analysis and rubber quality
testing).
Miscellaneous investigations (statistics, agriclimatology).
24.       It is relevant to the work at BPPM that it is currently receiving
assistance under UNDP/FAO Project INS/72/004 "Strengthening Research on
Rubber and Oil Palm in North Sumatra". The project staff have made recom-
mendations concerning the conduct of agronomic research and plant protection.
It has also been concerned with the upgrading of the laboratories for leaf
and soil analysis and for rubber analysis. It has recommended that rubber
technology including the testing of vulcanized rubber be introduced. The
project staff have also recommended that the library be upgraded by the
acquisition of modern books and more journal subscriptions. The UNDP con-
tribution to the project, which began in mid 1972, is US$880,000. It pro-
vides for seven full time specialists of which six are on strength. The
project lasts until 1976 at which time the rubber breeder project chief,
oil palm agronomist and agricultural economist will still be in Indonesia.
IDA Credit-194 includes US$600,000, which is to be used by BPPM by fellow-
ships (US$200,000) and equipment (US$400,000).
25.       The BPPM maintains experimental gardens at Aek Pancur (350 ha) and
Sungei Pancur (80 ha) about 20 km from Medan. These gardens are on
gently undulating yellow-red latosol typical of large rubber-growing areas.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Experimental work on rubber is conducted at Aek Pancur and Sungei Pancur
and on a co-operative basis on estates in the area served by the BPPM.
26.       The BPPM has recently established a branch station at Prabu Malik,
Padang, West Sumatra. A University of Bonn, West Germany team at Padang
is concerned with developing facilities for leaf and soil analysis and soil
fertility investigations. The BPPM undertakes analyses and certification
of Standard Indonesian Rubber, and the Padang branch will also undertake
these analyses but certification will be by BPPM. Similar analytical
facilities for Riau are also proposed.
27.       BPPM proposes shortly to institute a smallholders training and
advisory schemes which would have centers at Bukit Sentang near Sawit Sabrang
about 45 km north of Medan, and also in South Tapanuli where there is a
large area of smallholder rubber. The BPPM publishes a quarterly bulletin
which contains articles on rubber experimentation and advisory work.
The Rubber Research Center, Tanjung Morawa, North Sumatra
28.       The RRC Tanjung Morawa was set up under joint ownership by PNP's
I-V in 1964.  It occupies the old offices of a former estate about 20 km
south-west of Medan. The Director is supported by two graduate research
staff.  There are two sections which deal with agronomy and soil fertility
respectively.
29.       The RRC formerly carried out some breeding selection work but this
has now been discontinued. A considerable number of experiments on tapping/
stimulation, disease control, weed control and manuring are carried out on
the PNP estates.  The laboratories of the RRC undertake a small number of
analyses of soils and fertilizers. There are proposals to upgrade the
laboratories to increase their capacity and to introduce leaf analysis,
and to assist in this, RRC has received US$90,000 worth of research equipment
from the Asian Development Bank duplicating similar equipment at BPPM
for soil and leaf analysis.
The Rubber Research Center, Getas, Central Java
30.       The RRC Getas was set up in 1964 under joint ownership of a group
of rubber PNP's in Central Java. In 1968 its scope was extended to serve
all of the rubber PNP's/PTP's of Java and southern Sumatra (South Sumatra
and Lampung) namely PNP's/PTP's X-XIII, XVIII, XXIII and XXVI with a total
area of about 100,000 ha of rubber. It also services a small area of cocoa
(1,200 ha) and kapok (2,000 ha). It is situated at Getas Estate whicii lies
54 km south from Semarang and 7 km from Salatiga. Semarang has an air
service. The premises were built in 1964 and consist of offices, a library
and four laboratories. Water and electricity are provided by Getas Estate,
but the supply is not good. The Director is supported by a staff of seven
graduate Research Workers. The library has principally very old material.
There are relatively few modern books or journals.



t%uE`    9
Page  7
31.       The laboratories are equipped to carrv out chemical and physical
analysis of soils and fertilizers.  There are aot yet facilities for leaf
analysis but it was hoped thiat these wouldl be available in a few years time.
RRC Getas has three divisions dealiing witli rubber research:
(a)  Agronomy, dealing with selection, tappinig, pest
and disease control and planting methods.
(b) Economics, dealing with cost and managemient studies.
(c) Soils and climate, dealing with detailed soil surveys,
fertilizer experiments and weather recording.
32.       Getas Estate lies at 350 m above sea level and consists of 1,200
ha of rather undulating red latosol. "lost of the area is under clonal
rubber planted in 1962. It is reasonably typical of PNP/PTP estates through-
out Java. Experiments are carried oiut on Getas Estate and on a co-operative
basis on PNP's/PTP's throughout the area served. 'N.o work is carried out
on rubber preparation or on rubber quality.  The PRC Getas publishes the
Bulletin RRC Getas but not on a regular basis.
C. The Project
Description
Special Considerations
33.       A National Research Program for Rubber would be set up at Sungei
Putih Estate about 50 km from Medan, North Suimatra. It would have a branch
at Sembawa, South Sumatra and perhaps in Kalimantan and Java at a later stage.
34.       The purpose of this Center would be to undertake all aspects of
production research, i.e. the breeding and growing of rubber and associated
cover and intercrops, the exploitation, and the preparation of rubber and
rubber latex for shipment.
35.       Provision would be made for inclusion of subject matter specialists
at the Center and its regional station to channel the results of research
out to extension and the farmers. The Center would also publish an annual
report and a journal on a regular basis.
36.       The Center would undertake clhemical analysis of leaf, soil, fertilizer,
and rubber etc. as necessary for advisory work but would not engage in the
analysis of rubber or rubber latex for the purpose of regulatory service.
The regulatory service should be entirely in the hands of the Ministry of
Trade, which should have enforcement powers.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
37.       In order to effect maximum economies in laboratory use and to
avoid serious dislocation in operation in view of the recently completion
of a large laboratory construction program at BPPM, the existing laboratories
at BPPM would continue in use as the analytical base for the Center, res-
ponsible for analyses of leaf, soil, fertilizet, etc. materials and of rubber
and rubber latex for all research service and advisory functions. The
regulatory analysis functions could also continue in the BPPM (and BPPB)
facilities, but under Ministry of Trade control.
38.       The Center would engage in the provision of foundation breeding/
planting material but not in the provision of commercial planting material
which would be left to public or private enterprise,
39.       Soil survey activities should be confirmed to detailed soil survey
of rubber areas, as necessary to support research and advisory functions of
the Center, using a classification correlated with the National Soils
Institute system.
40.       The Center would also not engage in work on rubber technology,
as distinct from rubber and rubber latex preparation for shipment. Rubber
technology is here taken to mean that technology concerned with vulcanization,
the properties of vulcanized rubber and the use of rubber in manufacture.
Rubber technorogy would be regarded as the proper function of the Institute
for Industrial Research and Development, (Lembaga Penelitian dan Pengumpanang
Indonesia or LPPI), which is to be set up near Bogor under the second Develop-
ment Plan 1974-79.
41.       All the rubber research now carried out in Indonesia at Government,
including PNP/PTP, centers would be transferred to the National Research
Center for Rubber or its branches. Rubber research at BPPB and its Jember
branch, BPPM and its Padang branch, and RRC Tanjung Morawa and Getas would
only continue until the Center at Sungei Karang is in full operation, during
which time programs and appropriate staff would be transferred.
Organization and Management
42.       The National Center would be under the control of a resident Program
Director who would be responsible for the national research program as out-
lined in paras 44 to 45 below. The Director would be Chairman of a rubber
research advisory committee, having representation from the rubber industry,
which would advise on the content and direction of the,research program. The
director, who would be appointed after consultation with IDA, would be assist-
ed during the course of the project by a research Program Adviser recruited
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
43.       The UNDP/FAO Rubber and Oil Palm Research Project will provide an
impetus to the rubber research program until the National Center for Rubber
Research is established at Sungei Putih. It is unlikely that the new
Center would be in full operation before 1976, when the 1JNDP/FAO project



A14NEX 9
Page 9
is completed. At that. time, or as soon as practical thereafter, all research
equipment including that purchased under IDA Credit 194 and research staff,
except those responsible for operating the analytical base (see para 37
above), would be transferred to Sungei Karang from Medan or other centers.
Arrangements for the continued services under the project of the remaining
foreign specialists still on the TNDP/FAO project in 1976, could be considered
by GOI, the Bank and UNDP/FAO at that time.
Research Program
44.       The research program of the National Research Center for Rubber
would include work on the following:
(a) Breeding and selection.
(b) Agronomy of rubber (nursery practice, vegetative
propagation, transplanting, manuring, upkeep).
(c) Agronomy of cover and intercrops.
(d) Plant protection.
(e) Exploitation (tapping, stimulation).
(f) Processing and preparation of rubber and rubber latex.
(g) Economics of rubber and latex production.
Work on the selection of clones to suit local conditions should proceed as
soon as possible so as to obtain further information relevant to the extensive
replanting programs which are already urgent. Reliance is placed on a very
small number of clones at present. Breeding will be for longer term prospects.
45.       Work is needed on nursery practice and transplanting with a view to
reducing the length of immaturity period. Work on crown-budded rubber for
areas withi leaf disease problems would be desirable. Work on root disease in
relation to method of replanting should be started immediately.
Research Facilities
46.       Appropriate accommodation for the proposed institute cannot be
provided within the existing buildings at Sungei Karang. A program of new
construction on a site adjacent to the Sungei Karang PNP compound will be
initiated to Provide new laboratories, administrative offices and.supporting
facilities.  The schedule of accommodation is included in Annex 17.  Housing
for the professional and technical staff of the proposed institute will be
provided on sites within the Sungei Karang compound by agreement with the PNP.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
47.       Sungei Putih is a functioning estate of about 2,250 ha which will
be taken over by ARD shortly. About 700 ha can be made available irmmediately
for replanting to support the experimental work of the new Center.  Topograplhic
and soil surveys to assist in identifying and planning the experimental lay-
out are being undertaken by GOI, and some experimental plots would be laid
out prior to the commencement of the project, in cooperation with the estate
management.  The BPPM experimental plantation at Aek Pancur and Sungei Pancur
could be retained or phased out depending on the timing of the land transfer
and other ARD land requirements.
48.       Laboratory and office facilities, and staff housing on a smaller
scale will also be required at Sembawa.
Staffing
49.       Estimated staff requirements are given in Table 2.  It is assumed
that most of the BPPM staff will chose to transfer from Nedan to the Center
and that many of the BPPB staff will be willing to transfer from Bogor, so
that a nucleus staff could be quickly assembled once the building program
is completed. Mlany of the staff of the RRC's at Tanjung Iforawa and Getas
are also likely to transfer to this new Center. The remainder of the estab-
lishment would be made up by direct recruitment in the early years of the
project.
Fellowshjips
50.       An estimated 40 fellowships would be awarded leading to post-
graduate degrees in breeding, agronomy, pathology, analytical chemistry,
chemical engineering, engineering, economics and statistics. An estimated
13 short-term training fellowships would also be awarded: these would be
of about 6 months duration and would not lead to a degree.
51.       Some advanced training to the M.Sc. level can be furnished in a
number of specialized fields at Indonesian universities but most of the Ph.D.
level training will have to be done at foreign universities during the term
of the project. The substantial numbers of B.Sc. level graduates coming out
of Indonesian universities should provide a good cadre of senior technical
personnel from which early selection of some scientists for M.Sc. and Ph.D.
level training could be made.
52.       Candidates for fellowships would be carefully assessed by a
selection board in accordance with the criteria outlined in Annex 7, para
32.
53.       The short-term training fellowships would comprise professional
improvement experiences for selected staff, including the Director of the
Center and his senior and more experienced scientists, which would be pro-
vided at foreign institutions engaged in similar research activities, in
order that they may gain experience and understanding of research station
and program management.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
Technical Assistance
54.       Experienced foreign specialists who would help to provide the
conceptual, planning, coordinating and operational leadership necessary
to promote a strong problem-oriented national research program would be
provided. They would be specialized in several relevant research fields,
preferably breeding, agronomy, pathology, chemical engineering and economics.
55.       One of these foreign specialists would serve as research program
advisor. He would work with the director on the problems involved in setting
up of the research facilities and projects of the Center and in ensuring that
operating activities are effective. The program advisor would be a highly
experienced specialist in one of the program fields of specialization and
would engage at least part-time in his field of specialization.
Cost Estimates
56.       The cost for the national research program for rubber for the
five-year period would be approximately US$7.5 million. 1/ The estimated
costs are summarized in Tables 3, 4 and 5.
D. Economic Benefits and Justification
57.       Rubber research as currently organized is carried oult by several
organizations and at two or three levels. X single organization as suggested
would be more efficient in the use of staff and equipment.
53.       Indonesia formerly led the world in plantation efficiency.  This
efficiency has declined and will decline further if nothing is done to
provide the necessary technical information based on research.  The standard
of research is variable and lower than is desirable in such an important
industry and researchers lack good contact with research effort elsewhere.
Provision of good working conditions will improve both amount and quality
of output. The proposal to eliminate all regulatory and service functions
from the research organization is to place proper emphasis on the research
and related advisory functions and to avoid sidetracking.
59.       The general conditions of soil and climate for growing rubber in
Indonesia are excellent, but much has to be done to realize the production
potential.  Assuming an ultimate steady state with 3-4% replanting each
year it should be possible to attain an average annual yield per planted
hectare of 1,000 kg. i.e. the current yields could be doubled or tripled
thus yielding a large increase in revenue, while quality improvements could
make Indonesian natural rubber even more competitive in the world's markets.
1/   In constant 1975 terms, and excluding physical contingencies.



Page 12
60.-      Indonesia produces about 800,000 tons of natural rubber per annum.
The cost of the rubber program project is esLimated to be roughly US$6.0
million. Assuming the price of rubber to be stable at US$65 per kg (below
the current forecasts for this commodity), then this total cost will be
equivalent to 10,000 tons of rubber. It is considered that an extra 10,000
tons of rubber could easily be obtained bv the application of research.
Thle benefits to be obtained from improved tapping/stimulation could alone
more than pay for the project in the early years. The same is true of
improvements in rubber preparation and marketing. A series of medium term
benefits could accrue from control of panel disease and improvementS in
nutrition. Longer term benefits would accrue from improvements in replanting
techniques, including intercropping and the control of root disease.
61.       The onlv permanent solution to the nroblem of improvement of
smallholder rubber is by replantin- so that it is difficult to quantify
the benefit from the application of research.  However, with regard to estate
rubber some calculations can be made.  If we assume the area under estate
rubber to remain constant with a 2-3%/annum linear increase in yield, the
yield would have increased by 1980 to about 290,000 tons from the present
230,000 tons, i.e. 60,000 tons more than the current rate. If only about
17%. of this increase were due to applied research then the project would have
paid for itself in one year alone.
Attached: Tables 1 - 5
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Rubber Area and Production by Region
Estate -   -   -   -   -            Smalholder
Number
Region             of Estates       Area       Production       Area       Production
('. OOOh7)   (QOOton)     (tOQOha)    (TOOOto
North Sumatra         211            265           135          515            160
South Sumatra          24             25            15          725            220
Java                  394            185            75           60             20
Other Islands          15             10             5          400            160
Total           644           485            230        1,700            560
May 6, 1974



INDONV-SIA                                ANNEX 9
Table 2
AGRICULTURAL RESEAFCH A N EXTENSION
Rabber Research Program
Staff List at iull Development
Senior      Junior      Clerical
Professional-' Technicala' Technicei2' & General   Labor
(a)  National Center - SungeijPatih4'
Administration
Program Director                      1              1           -             1          -
Program Advisor/Deputy                1              1           -             1          -
Secretary (Administration)            1              t           2             6          -
Accountant                            1                          2              6         -
Plantation Manager                    1              1           2             1          _
Plantation Service Center             -              1           2              1         _
Food Services                         -              -           2              -         -
Engineer                              1              -           2              2         -
Technical Services
Experimental Design & Statistics    2                2           4             1          -
Economist                             2              2           4              1         -
Library                               l              -           2             4          _
Publications, Photography             1              1           2             3          -
Subject Matter Specialist             2              2           4             2          -
Crop Improvement
Breeder                               2              3           4             6          _
Pathologist                           3              3           6             4          _
Entomologist                          1              1           2             1          -
Physiologist                          1              1           2             1
Biochemist                            1              1           2             1          -
Crop Production
Agronomy                              6              9          12             9          -
Soil Science                          4              8          12             4          -
Processing Technology
Chemist                               2              2           4             1          -
Technologist                          2              2           4             2          -
Engineer                              1              1           2             1          _
Sub-total, National Center           37            44           78            59        low
(b)  ReAional Station - Semjbawa
Station Manager                       1              1           -             1
Secretary (Administration)            1              -           2             4          -
Engineer                              1              -            2            2          -
Agronomy                              3              3            6            2          -
Crop Protection                       1              2           4             1          -
Soil Science                          1              2           4             1          -
Technologist                          2              2           4             1          -
Subject Matter Specialist             1              2           4             1          -
Sub-total, Regional Station          11             12          26            13         20 6
TOTAL                           48             56          104            72        120
j   Year six of project
/ Professional -- M.Sc., Ph.D. or equivalent capability at end of project
3 Senior Technical -- B.Sc., diploma or equivalent at end of project
Junior Technical -- Agricultural High School or equivalent at end of project
/ Support for all aspects of the work will be provided at Sungei Putih and its ancillary
facility to be developed at the Estate Crops Institute in Madan, where four professionals
(economist, statistician, soil scientist and processing technologist) together with five
senior technical, four junior technical and two clerical staff will be based. Other staff
from the Institute will be transferred to the Sungei Patih Center after the civil works
construction program has been completed, most likely in year 3 of the project.
/ Allocated according to need, and excluding any labor required for the commercial
exploitation of existing rubber.



AN'NEX 9
INDONESIA                             Table 3
AG?JICULJtk ?.EkSEitCH LD ETEI.iSIOI7
Rubber Research Program
Project Cost
(Constant 1975 US,)
Percentage
of Foreign
Exchange
Local        Foreign         Total        ComPOnent
Capital Input l/
Buildings, Services,
Utilities & Housing          2,412,000     1,608,000      4,020,000          40%
Research Equipment                70,500       634,500        705,000          90%
Furniture                         10,500         4,500         15,000          30%
Farm Development 2/               72,000        24,000         96,000          25%
Field Equipment 37                66,00o        66,00o        132,000          50%
Vehicles 4/                       14,400       129,600        144,000          90%
- Research Specialists           30,000         20,000                        140%
Sub-total                      2,675,400     2,486,600      5,162,000
Technical Services 6/
Research Specialists             117,000       6b3,0O         780,000          85%
Fellowships, Short-term            --           78,ooo         78,000         100%
Fellowships, Long-term            70,800       637,200        708,000          90%
Sub-total                        l87,600     1X37d,200      1,566,000
Land Purchase ./                   180,000         --           180,000
Establishment Cost 8/              640,000         --           640,000
Total                          3,683,200     3,864,8o0      7,548,000          51.2%
1/  Details on this component are given in Annex 17, Table 8.
The costs given here are without design and construction contingencies.
2/  Based on an estimate of US$2,000 per professional (48 professionals).
3/  Based on an estimate of US$2,750 per professional.
4/ Based on an estimate of US$3,000 per professional.
i/ Automobiles for research specialists engaged for one year or more (5).
6/  See Table 4.
.L/  2,250 hectares belonging to the Government but currently used by PNP V
will be made available for the Rubber Research Program.  The amount here
provided is for compensating PNP V for the use of the plantation, at a
nominal price of Rs33,000 or US$80 per ha.
8/  See Table 5.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 4 
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Rubber Research Program
Technical Services
Number     Unit Cost       Total
Research Specialists!!/                          --- (Constant l975 TS--
Program Advisor/Specialist for 4 yrs.  1         240,oon         2Lo,000
Research Specialists for 2 years        4        120,000        480,ooo
IT        In  6 months.             1          30,000         30,000
" 3 months       2         15,000          30,000
Sub-total                                                       780,000
Fellowships Short-term                   13          6,000         78,000
Fellowships Long-term
M.Sc. in Indonesia                      6         10,000         60,000
M.Sc. Abroad                           13         2h,000        312,000
Ph.D. Abroad                            7         48,000        336,000
Sub-total                              26            -          708,000
TOTAL                               -            -        1,566,000
j/ A substantial input of technical assistance.will continue through 1976
under the FAO Rubber and Oil Palm project, based at the Estate Crops
Institute, Medan. The bulk of the technical assistance input through
the project will therefore be deferred,until the last four years of
the project, after the civil works construction program has been
completed at Sungei Patih. The Program Advisor would be the only
technical assistance specialist to be provided through the project in
the early implementation years.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX9
Table 5
INYNThQEIA
AGRICULTURAL RESfARCH AND EXTENSION
Rlubber Researchi emro-ra
Schedule of Establishment Cost
Project Year --
1        ?                4                 6          Total
Number of Professional4!         22       22       40       44       48       48
Of which:
- on fellowships              -       --         13       24       24       18        --
- engaged in the program       22       22       27       26       24       30        -_
(---------------------(Constant 1975 Us$)---------------------
Establi shment Coat of the
Program  g                610,000  660,000  810,000  600,000  720,000  900,000    4,300,000
Current. Establishment Cost
610,000  610,000  610,000  610,000  610,000  610,000    3,660,000
Incremental Establishment
Cost                         --    50,000 200,000  (10,000) 110,000  290,000        640,U00
1/  Commencing in the second year, a proportion of the professional staff will be
awarded fellowfships to stuidy either in Indonesia or abroad.
2/ In accordance with the experiences of other international research centers, the
establishment cost has been calculated using a ratio of tTS$30,000 per professS.onal
present at the center. For the first year, however, it uas assumed that there
would be no change in the current establishment cost because of delays in stazting
the program.
;/ The current establishment cost has been taken as the operating budget for the
existing BPPM research center at Medan.
October 31, 1974



AMEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTUIRAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
National and Regional Agricultural Information Program
A. Introduction
1.        Indonesia is an archipelago.  The whole territory extends 5,000 km
from East to West and 1,750 Ian from North to South. In terms of population,
Indonesia is one of the five largest countries. One of the striking features
of the population is its distribution. Almost 65% of the population is
concentrated in Java and Madura, which land represents less than 7% of
the total. Java and Madura have a population density of about 565 persons/
kin2 while the density for the whole country is only 59/km2.
2.        Agriculture is the main sector of the Indonesian economy.  About
70% of the total population is engaged in agriculture, either directly
or indirectly. Approximately 50% of the total national income (some
US$9 billion) is derived from this sector and more than 70% of the total
export product in terms of value comes from this sector.
3.        I4 1970, the rural population amounted to about 99 million people,
with an extremely imbalanced distribution over the whole country. There
are over 12 million farm families spread across the length and breadth of
the nation, two-thirds of which are in Java; the average number of farms
per village is 500 in Java, but only 225 on the outer islands. These
numbers of decision making farm heads are to be reached and persuaded.
rrhere are a similar number of farm women and an even greater number of
rLral youth whio also must be reached if extension is to have any significant
impact on the development of agriculture and rural society.
4.       T7he farm lands comprise dry land (two-thirds of the cultivated area)
and irrigatcd1 land (one-third).  Irrigation is of great importance since paddy,
the most iinportant food crop, is mostly cultivated on wet or irrigated land.
Out of the country's total of about 14 million ha devoted to food crops,
about hIalf are under paddy. Many irrigation networks are traditional, but
most of the lowlands in Java have been equipped with modern infrastructure.
In recent years their maintenance has been neglected, but they are now being
relabilitated.
5.        Farming in Indonesia is characterized by very small production
units, averaging 0.3 ha of wet paddy land and 0.8 of *dry land.  In Java the
land distribution is extremely fragmented and farm size averages only 0.7 ha;
in addition, land ownership is concentrated and an important proportion



AlNEZ-r 10
Page   2
of farmers are tenants and sharecroppers.  iTith such .ilslll production units,
the advice of an extension worker must be both technically correct and
financially sound, in view of the average farmers small margin for error.
6.        Traditional society in Indonesia has had some highly developed
organizations for farmers, farm 'vomen and youth in the past. If the approx-
imately 6,000 field extension tworkers are to have any impact (the ratio is
1:2,000 farm families), they must become skilled in group extension methods,
involving mass media communication.
7.        Increasing food production leading to attainment of self-suffi-
ciency in food supply has been a national objective since independence.
Agriculture, including forestry, animal husbandry, and fisheries has received
first priority in the First and Second Five Year Development Plans, and
emphasis has been put on increasing food production, particularly rice, and
export commodities, including timber.
B. Present Status of Extension
8.        The broad function of agricultural extension in the past has been
shared by several Directorates General under the control of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Extension work at the farm level in Indonesia is the
responsibility of the province, but at the central government level the
Directorate General of Agriculture, the Directorate of Agriculture Extension,
and the Minister of Agriculture manage the funds to subsidize agricultural
extension activities in the province. The total staff of the Directorate
General of Agriculture including the provincial staff is 13,774; approximately
3,154 perform purely administrative work. From the technical staff of
10,590, there are 4,292 Kecamatan (subdistrict) level extension workers
serving 10-15 villages each. The balance of the technical staff (6,298)
are backstopping these extension workers in a variety of ways from research
and subject matter specialists to purely service functions at Kabupaten
(district), provincial and national levels.
9.        The role of extension at present is to see that farmers have the
facts necessary for making decisions on matters which concern them, in order
to motivate them to action. This has not always been extension's role in
the past, but will be in the present and in the future. To implement this
goal, certain extension teaching methods are being given priority; e.g. farm
broadcasting, various types of demonstration, and farmer courses. In this
context the use and development of key farmers, farmer leaders and rural
community leaders are of prime importance.
10.       The changes in the political and general situation since 1965 have
provided opportunities for reshaping the pattern and methods of agricultural
extension more in accordance with democratic principles. The agricultural



ANNEX 1 0
Page   3
inspectors' meeting in 1969, the first year of Pelita I, gave some funda-
mentals for developing the agricultural extensipn institution, refreshing
the staff, renovating the facilities and executkng progrvmis and methods
which can convev the application of modern agricultural technology to the
farmers and their families, and also arousing their participation and self-
generating activities.
11.        During the first two years of IEPELITA I (1969-74), extension has
reactivated work through key-farmers; given increased attention to programs
for farm women and rural youth; and has emphasized the development of more
organizations of and by the farmers.  The following special efforts have been
conducted among others:
-    the reapplication of working methods which are
educational, and generating autoactivities such as
demonstration plots, demonstration farms, farm
broadcasting, farmers' group activities and youth
projects;
-    the reorientation of extension personnel to non-
political working patterns;
-    the renovation of extension institutions like rural
extension centers, so that they function as training,
field experiment and demonstration centers; and
-    the development of a more integrated agricultural
extension cadre of field extension workers and
subject matter specialists, especially in the frame-
work of the BIMAS program.
12.        The GOI has recently decided that an Agency for Education, Train-
ing and Extension should be established with the special responsibility
for planning and impleinenting these new extension objectives.  The nucleus
senior staff for this Agency have recently been appointed and is working
closely with the project implementation unit staff set up as a vehicle
for imDlementing the agricultural education project (IDA Credit 228-IND).
Later, after the signing of an appropriate Mfinisterial Decree, staff from
the extension directorates in the directorates general for agriculture,
animal husbandry, fisheries, estates crops and forestry ,will be transferred
into the new agency, which is likely to become operational on April 1, 1975.
The current financial year is therefore a transitional year in regard to
the establishrnent of the new agency.
13.        The task faced by extension in quantitative terms is illustrated
by the ratio of farm families to the number of field extension workers.
The current ratio is 1:2,000 farm families (6,000 agricultural field staff
to 12.5 million farm families).



ANNNE  1I)0
Page 4
14.       The challenge, therefore, is to improve the quality of such staff
and to increase their effectiveness through better training, the use of
more effective and more massive educational methods, the provision of better
working facilities, equipment, transport and teaching aids, and the development
of a better integrated staff structure reaching down to the village level.
15.       The effectiveness of extension will also depend on its close
integration with the sources of new information and technology. Thus close
relationships must be developed with research and training institutions both
as recipient of and contributor to such sources of knowledge.
16.       The improvement of program methods involves several major changes
in emphasis to achieve greater efficiency. This will include the greater
use of organized groups and related leadership development. Such an
approach enlists the aid of volunteer village leaders as intermediaries
between the field extension workers and the farmers, thus multiplying the
numbers reached by each extension worker.  The use of groups further extends
teaching efficienlcy.  An important complementary approach is achieved through
the use of mass media communications.  Increased attention must be given to
tihe wider use of printed materials, audio-visual aids, and especially of
radio, and later of television. The effectiveness of thelatter can be further
strengthened by the use of organized listening groups under trained volunteer
leaders.
17.       It is apparent that the development of a stronger extension in-
formation program will require the expansion of the regional agricultural
extension information centers, especially staffed and equipped to provide
this tvpe of support.  With the increasing level of literacy, more printed
matelrials can be used.  Sucn information centers have already demonstrated
their usefulness in promotin- and coordinatinc- the expansion of extensioi
radlio work anid serving radio listening groups.
18.       Finally, there is a continuing need for the further in-service
training of key me1ebers of the extension staff at ii:tional and provincial
levels through short tern study tours and longer courses abroad, aimed at
advanced degrees, and for tie assistance of international experts in various
aspects of the extension prograri, wh-o can bring the benefit of their broader
experience to extension staff members at the national and provincial levels.
19.       Several province extension information offices are using radio
for mass media communication purposes. East Java at Surabaja and 1%est
Sumiatra at both Padang and Bukittinggi are doing very commendable work in
radio and publications, as well as demonstration-farm promotion. Wqest Sumatra
province is equipped with a remote radio-broadcasting and recording studio
which was being used in nine centers twice a week. They make recordings with
key farmers and use the recordings on their radio programs.



ANNEX 10
Page   5
20.       These province centers do not have any movie-film production
equipment and they are doing a poor job of producing slide sets of quality
for use as teaching aids and motivating factors toward farmer acceptance
of research-recommended practices. Three of the centers have audio-visual
mobile units, but there is a lack of film and slide presentation materials
that would relate to the Indonesian farmer. Most of the films were produced
abroad, such as in Japan or Australia, and so had limited appeal to the
local people.. There is a need for the information centers to produce
Indonesian films on research-recommended practices and approved methods of
farming and technology that would relate specifically to the Indonesian
farmer and his situation. There is very little news-writing and publication
going on. Most of the bulletins and pamphlets were produced elsewhere.
21.       The key to quality production in the information centers is a
well-trained staff using quality equipment. Ten persons employed at Bukittinggi
are well-trained, with five of them having university degrees. In the less
effective centers there is a definite lack of both a qualified staff and
directorship for effective and dynamic leadership in communications work.
22.       The need for improvement in the present agricultural extension
service is well recognized by GOI, which has had some exhaustive studies made
in recent years. An examination of these study reports, consultations with
agricultural leaders within the Ministry of Agriculture and visits to several
of the proposed sites for information centers, and observation of present
practices have all formed the basis for the following project proposal.
C. The Project
Special Considerations
23.       The present condition of extension services in Indonesia is far
below a satisfactory level to maximize benefits from research findings
geared to farmers' needs for economic growth. The administration and
organization of extension and information offices now in operation could
be described as emergent, with growth and development ready for expansion
but inhibited by shortages in trained personnel, lack of adequate
buildings and equipment, and insufficient coordination between the agri-
cultural agencies involved.
24.       Proposals for assistance in the development of improved centers
of information to better serve extension are encompassed in the project.
The objective would be to unify efforts of research and extension through
a better organized, equipped and staffed institution that could thereby
contribute to a substantial increase in farm production. The goal in up-
grading the extension service is to make it a more effective organization
for meeting the needs of the extension workers, the farmers, and the
conmunity in general.



ANNEX 10
Page   6
Organization and Management
25.       It is proposed that one National Information Center and nine
regional information centers would be established under the project. The
National Infornmation Center will be located at Ciawi, near Bogor and close
to the National In-Service Training Center. This choice was made because
Bogor contains the largest concentration of agricultural research centers
and agricultural training institutions including the Agricultural University.
The location of the nine regional information centers are:
1.   East Java ............ Wonocolo, near Surabaya
2.   Central Java ......... Ungaran, near Semarang
3.   West Java ............ Kayuambon, near Bandung
4.   West Sumatra .........   Bukittinggii
5.   North Sumatra ........ Tanjung Morawa, near Medan
6.   Lampung .............. Tanjungkarang
7.   South Sulawesi ... Maros, near Ujungpandang
8.   South Kalimantan ..... Banjarbaru
9.   West Nusa Tenggara ... Lingsar, near Mataram
For proper functioning, adequate facilities would have to be provided com-
prising land, buildings including housing for some of the staff, and
equipment.
26.       The project encompasses an increase in professional and technical
personnel with provision for about 40 fellowships for advanced degree and
short-term training.
27.       The staffing requirements for the national information center include
a National Director assisted by five professionals, one each in chiarge of crop
and animal production information, agricultural engineering and farm machinery,
farm management and economics, production techniques, and communications
(audio-visual aids, broadcasting, publications andproduction of films and
slides). Four junior staff members, with training in communications would
assist the professional staff. An office staff, laborers and drivers would
also be included.
28.       Staff for each of the nine regional centers would consist of a
director with four staff personnel. The directors would be qualified and
experienced agriculturalists who are university graduates in agriculture
or related sciences, with additional knowledge and experience in the field
of communications. For the four staff personnel, a bachelor degree or diploma
in agriculture with additional experience in communications would be a
necessary qualification. Adequate technical and clerical staff are included
in the program. The four staff members at the regional offices will need
special training in four major fields, namely, audio-visual aids production;
radio-broadcasting and script writing; news writing and special feature
stories production; and publications and printing.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
The Agricultural Information Program
29.       The function of the agricultural information centers would be
to provide audio-visual aid materials to be used by extension workers in
providing the farming community with improved agricultural information.
By establishing closer links between research and extension they will provide
sound advice on improved technology which is of economic significance to
farmers.
30.       The functional responsibilities of these centers would be as
follows:
(a) Collect data and information from all sources avail-
able, especially from farmers and villages, government
services, research institutions, universities and
libraries;
(b) Process and produce or reproduce required information
materials in a well-prepared and suitable form for
informative purposes;
(c)  Supply and distribute information materials for infor-
mative purposes by all methods and through all com-
munications media in order to achieve maximum results; and
(d) Constantly evaluate the effectiveness of the informa-
tion released and the efficiency of the dissemination
process.
Facilities
31.       The sites for the national and nine regional information centers
have been selected on the basis of their proximity to other facilities
belonging to the extension directorates and research institutes of the
directorates general within the Ministry.  In most cases they are contiguous
with in-service or rural training centers or other existing extension
service or related complexes such as provincial extension offices, seed
production farms or universities. Land acquisition will not be a problem as
all the sites are on GOI land.
32.       All the centers will need completely new builtings and equipment
for efficient functioning, and housing will need to be provided for the
directors and staff.
33.       The buildings would include sufficient rooms for office; library;
display; printing and publishing workshop; store-room for information
r,aterials and aocuments; darkroom for photographic processing; studio for
recording and broadcasting; workshop and garage.



ANNEX 10
Page   8
34.       New equipment needed for all the centers will include those for
office administration activities; prodtction and processing of photographs,
slides, or films; recording of agricultural broadcasting materials; printing
and publication; library and display; transportation and mobile units; and
workshop and maintenance of materials.
Fellowships
35.       A total of about 40 fellowships will be awarded for short term
and for advanced degrees to provide training in communications media.
The division would be as follows:
(a)  30 for agricultural extension personnel who are
selected to work in the information centers. The
basic study program will be an M.Sc. course in agri-
cultural subjects including agri_ultural journalism,
communications, audio-visual technology, documentary
film production and like subject specialists; and
(b) 10 for center directors. These would be short term
studies mainly for observation of outstanding infor-
mation centers, their operation and management.
Technical Assistance
36.       There is a serious shortage of trained and experienced personnel
who could provide the guidance and advice necessary for proper organization
of staff and utilization of equipment in the information centers during
the early years of the project. Four internationally recruited agricultural
information specialists would therefore be provided to assist in formulation,
design and supervision of the information programs. One of these would work
closely with the Head of the NAIC. He would be termed an agricultural informa-
tion administrator and would be concerned especially with the definition of
programs and the management of the national center. The other three, who
would be termed agricultural information co-supervisors, would be responsible
for supervising the regional information centers in Java, Sumatra and the
other islands in the early establishment years.
Cost Estimates
37.       The cost estimates for the ten agricultural information centers,
including buildings, equipment, and operating costs for five years, and with
provision for the 40 fellowships and technical assistance personnel is
estimated as approximately US$5.6 million. 1/ The estimated costs are
summarized in Tables 1, 3 and 4.
I/   In constant 1975 terms, and excluding physical contingencies.



ANNEX 10
Page   9
D. Economic Benefits and Justification
38.       The agriculture sector in Indonesia can expect to gain substantial
economic benefits through the strengthening of agricultural extension as
proposed in this project. With gradually increasing levels of literacy,
greater benefits may be expected to accrue through expanded use of mass
media communications. Improved practices developed through research can
only result in increased production if applied on the farm and the project
will contribute to this process by strengthening and developing the quality
of the information materials produced.
Attached: Tables 1 - 5
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table I
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Projeot Cost - Information Centers
(Constant 1975 US$)
Regional                                         Percentage
National      Information                                        of Foreign
Information     Centers        Total       Local      Foreign    Exchange
Center       Unit Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost       Component
1. Capital Inputs
Building, Service,
Utilities & Housing     447,000       22h,000    2,463,000   1,477,800      985,200       ho
Equipment  J             135,000        62,500      697,500      69,750      627,750       90
Furniture                  7,200         3,600       39,600      27,720       11,880       30
Vehicles                  30,000        15,000      165,000      16,500      148,500       90
-  Specialists  v/        4o.000o        -           40,000      24 000       16.000       40
Sub-Total             659,200       305,100    3,405,100   1,615,770   1,789,330
2. Technical Services
Information Specialists  840,000          -         840,000     126,000      714,000       85
Fellowships, Short-term   60,000          -          60;000       -           60,000      100
Fellowships, Long-term   810,000          -         810,000      81,000      729,000       90
Sub-Total          1,710,000          -       1,710,000     297,000   1,503,000
3. Establishment Cost        90,000        45,000      495,000     495,000        -
Total              2,459,200      350,100    5,610,100   2,317,770   3,292,330         58.7
j National InCormation Center plus 9 Regional Information Centers.
/ See Annex 17, Table 9 for detailed costs.  The costs given here are without
design and construction contingencies.
,  See Table 2
v Automobiles for specialists engaged for 1 year or more (4)
See Table 3.  These fellowships are for staff at national and regional levels.
6   See Table 4.
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 2
IND, IESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSICN
Equipment for One Regional Information Center
A.    AUDIO VISUAL EQUIPMENT                                          Value (US$)
1    Film projector 16 m.m.                                       2,000
2.  Film projector 8 m.m.                                           700
3.   Slide/Filmstrip projector                                      800
4.  Overhead projector                                            1,800
5.  Movie camera 8 m.m. accessories (+ flood lamp)               1,100
6.   Movie camera 16 m.m. and accessories                         4,500
7.   Still camera and accessories - 1 set                           700
-camera 35 m.m.
-telelens 135 m.m.
-close-up lens (+ 1, +2, +3)
-filters (red, U.V., yellow, blue color)
-flash unit
-sun cap
-tripod
8.   Darkroom equipment
-enlarger unit (large type) - 1 set                      400
-processing equipment - 1 set                            200
9.   Pablic address system                                         800
10.   Tape recorders & radio                                         800
11.   Recording unit                                             18,100
-cassette tape recorder - 1 pc
(for field operation)
-stationary tape recorder - 1 pc
-radio - 2 pG
12.  Megaphone - 5 pc                                               500
13.   Mobil unit                                                 18,800
Sab-total:  Audio visual equipment                         51,200
B.    CFFICE AND PRINTED EQUIPMNT
1.   Standard typewriters                                           900
2.   Electric Typewriter                                         1,100
3.   Rotary duplicating machine                                  1,800
4.   Rotary recording machine 220                                3,600
5.  Hand press & spare parts                                     1,400
6.   Paper cutter and reserve cutter                                700
7.   Books for library                                           1,800
Sub-total:  Office and printed equipment                   11,300
Total                                                      62,500
December 24, 1974



ANNEX 10
Table 3
IRD(OESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXT34SICN
Information Centers
Technical Services
Number     Unit Cost       Total
Information Secialists                               --(Constant 1975 _Th_T?_
Extension Advisor/Specialist of
the National Center for 5 years           1        300,000       300,000
Extension Specialists for 3 years           3        X80,0.00      540,ooo
Sub-total                           4           -          840,000
Fellowships Short-term                       10          6,ooo        60,000
Fellowships Long-term
M.Sc. in Indonesia                          9         10,000        90,000
M.Sc. Abroad                               12         24.,000      288,000
Ph.D. Abroad                                9         48,ooo       432,000
Sub-total                          30           -          810,000
TOTAL                    -                    1,710,000
March 27, 1975



ANKEX 10
DIJO.'ESIA                              Table 4
AGRICTLTURA-L RESEARCh AND EXTElSION4
Establishment cost of a Regional Information Center
Annual Cost
---- Rp----
1. S
-1 Head              12xRp.30,000.-               360,000
-4 Senior staff    4x12xRp.25,000,-             1,200,000
-4 Junior staff   4x12xRp.20,000.-               960,000
-1 head of administration
1 x12xRp.25,000.-             300,000
-2 Administration Workers
2x1 2xRp.1 5,000.-            360,000
-3 Labourers (for printing
cleaning, etc.) 3X12xRp.10,000.-              360,000
-3 Drivers (for jeep, pick-up              I
and mobil unit) 3x12xRp.15,000.-               540,000
a&b-total                                   4,080,000
2.   Travel Allowance
-1Head             lxl2xRp.15,000.-               180,000
-4 Senior staff   4x12xRp.15,000.-                720,000
-4 Junior staff    4x12xRp.10,000.-               480,000
-3 Drivers         3xl2xRp. 6,000.-               216,000
Sub-total                                   1,596,000
3.  Expendable material
- Material for administration
12XRp. 7,500.-               90,000
- M4aterial for printing
(magazines, leaflets, posters,
bulletins, etc.)  12xRp.30,000.-               360,000
- Negative films(black and
white, color)     35mm. 100 rolls               60,000
-  SLide films              15 rolls              45,O
-  Cassette tapes           90 pieces             66,000
-  Tape for recording   324,000 feet              540,000
-  Batteries           100,000 pieces              90,000
- Movie film            100,000 feet             600,000
-  Paper for printing photos                       60,000
-  Chemicals for developing photos                 15,000
Sub-total                                   1,926,000
4-  Miscellaneous
-  Utilities                                     180,000
- Jeep, pick-up and mobile unit
(gasoline, oil, maintenance)
3xRp.450,000.-            1,350,000
- Motorcycles (gasoline, oil,
maintenance)      2xRp.50,000.-               100,000
-  Maintenance of building and
equipment                                     200,000
Sub-total                                   1 .830,000
Total                                       9.432.000
Annual    ProJect period (6 yrs)
Additional establishment costi/:  - in rupiahs  Rs3,75000        Rsl8,780,000
- in US dollars Us$9.000      US$   45.000
/ Since the extension services have already on their rolls the personnel to carry
out the implementation program, it is assumed that only the other items of the
operating cost (i.e. expendable material and miscellaneous) will be additional.
The additional establishment cost for the National Information Center has been
taken as double that of the corresponding cost for the regional centers.  It
was assumed that the establishment cost will be the same as without the project
and that the additional establishment cost will therefore be nil.
February 10, 1975



ANNEK 1 0
Table 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AJID EXTLNSICN
Education Level,of Extension Workers - 1970
JAVA
Sub     Rural Ext.
Level of Education       Province   District   District   Center        Projects   TOTAL
Literate < 6 yrs.            253        179        102         106         417      1,057
Elementary - 6 yrs.          657        846      1,142         182         516      3,343
Junior H. S. - 9 yrs.        179        556      1,134          81         129      2,079
Senior H. S. - 12 yrs.       243        324          75          4          67        713
Academy - 15 yrs.             35         60           0          0            4        99
University - 17 yrs.          49         20           0          0           0         69
7,360
OUTER ISLANIlS
Literate < 6 yrs.             91         66           0          4         134        295
Elementary - 6 yrs.          623      1,093      1,171          64         231      3,182
Junior H. S. - 9 yrs.        216        649        491           7          15      1,378
Senior H. S. - 12 yrs.      458         507        280           6          38     1,289
Academy - 15 yrs.             50         23          0           0           0         73
University - 17 yrs.          74         23           0          0           0         97
6,314
Total Java & Outer Islands         13,674
December 24, 1974



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Terms of Reference for Research Programs Advisor
1.        The Agency for Research and Development (ARD) requires the services
of a research programs advisor for a minimum period of 2 years but with
a view to continuation for a maximum of 4 years, to assist the Head of the
Agency and its staff in the organization and management of the Agency. He
would be recruited directly or through international or bilateral assistance,
-under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which would be financing
the position under its Agricultural Research and Extension Project, with
the following terms of reference:
Research Programs Advisor
2.        An internationally experienced agricultural research scientist with
proven administrative competence is required to assist ARD in strengthening
its research program planning, operational and administrative competence.
He should have the ability to communicate effectively with others, and should
recognize the special needs of research scientists and research programs and
be able to assess scientific competence.
3.        The research programs advisor would advise and assist the
management of ARD in:
(a) programing, staffing and the establishment of
personnel policies;
(b) the formulation of policies and programs that will
furnish a profesional environment conducive to more
productive research to increase agricultural pro-
ductivity;
(c) the selection of, and make recommendations for,
candidates for appointment to positions in the research
programs, institutes, centers and regional stations;
(d) the allocation of funds and programs from outside
sources to minimize duplication of effort;
(e) the processing of fellowship awards included
in the project, in close consultation with
national and international staffs, in



ANNEX 11
Page 2
accordance with established procedures of the
new Agency.
The research programs coordinator would also directly advise and assist
the Head of ARD:
(a) in reviewing applications for Bank disbursement such as
construction works, equipment and technical services.
(b) in developing and maintaining close working relationships
with the Ministry of State for Research, AETE, Universi-
ties and other pertinent organizations; and
(c) in maintaining contact with the research program advisors
and research specialists associated with the commodity groups
receiving Bank financing in order to ensure continuous mutual
understanding of the cooperative relationships and program
objectives.
March 31, 1975



AYNEX 12
Page 1
NONTES IA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Terms of Reference for Financial Administrator and
Equipment Procurement Specialist
1.        The Agency for Research and Development (ARD) requires the services
of a financial administrator to advise and assist in establishing: and developing
a budget and finance, and accounting system within ARD lieadquarters. The
Agency also requires the services of an equipment procurement specialist to
advise and assist in establishing and developing a centralized equipment
purchasing, stock control, repair and maintenance system.  They would be
recruited directly or through international or bilateral assistance, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which would be financing the
positions under its Agricultural Research and Extension Project, with the
following terms of reference:
Financial Administrator
2.        A capable financial specialist or similarly experienced profes-
sional is required for three years to assist ARD to establish and develop
budget and finance, and accounting units.
3.        The financial administrator would:
(a) develop, in association with the equipment procurement
specialist (see below), a system for centralized
procurement from local or international suppliers, of
laboratory and field equipment, goods and general
services;
(b)  develop within ARD an accounting system to cover
all expenditures of ARD;
(c)  supervise the accounting systems of the ARD research
centers, ensure their consistency with the accounting
system of ARD itself and their amenability to regular
check and audit;
(d) coordinate procurement work between the ARD procurement
and accounting unit and the Project Implementation Unit,
which would be responsible for the main construction and
general equipment program for the four research centers
to be set up under the project; and



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(e) advise on budgeting and financing procedures.
Equipment Procurement Specialist
4.       *A specialist with wide experience in purchase, operation and
maintenance of agricultural research laboratory and field equipment is
required for one year to advise and assist ARD in assessing equipment needs
and developing a centralized procurement, stock control, repair and maintenance
unit.
5.        The equipment procurement specialist would:
(a) develop, in association with the financial administrator (see
above), a system for centralized procurement from local or
international suppliers, of laboratory and field equipment,
goods and services;
(b)  assist the PIU in evaluation of equipment needs, and prepara-
tion of equipment lists, including specifications for
specialized items, to be procured for research centers to
be assisted under the project;
(c) assist PIU in the evaluation of tenders for equipment to
be procured under the project; and
(d) advise on the establishment of a centralized stock control,
repair and maintenance system.
December 26, 1974



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Terms of Reference for Research Program Advisors and Research Specialists
1.        Each of the four national research programs to be supported under
the project would require the services of several research specialists to
assist Indonesian scientists in establishing and implementing effective
commodity-oriented research programs. In each program, the leadership of
these research specialists will be made the responsibility of a program
advisor/specialist. In addition to their work as research specialists,
these program advisors would be associated with the program directors in
the organization of the program. Research specialists and program advisors
would be recruited directly, or through international or bilateral assis-
tance, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank with the following
terms of reference:
Program Advisor/Specialists
2.        An internationally experienced agricultural research scientist
with leadership and administrative competence will be required for each
of the four national research programs to be supported through the proj-
ect. These program advisors would have proven research competence in the
commodity concerned. They would also have some experience in research,
team leadership and management of a research center.
3.        The program advisor/specialists would:
(a) cooperate with the national research program
directors or their alternates in formulating,
designing, and supervising research projects
of significance relative to the national research
program;
(b) assist program scientists to develop, and partici-
pate in, effective commodity-oriented programs;
(c) assist the program directors in the selection of
research staff for the programs, and, with them,
recommend all appointments to ARD;
(d) assist the program directors in the selection and
placement overseas of professional personnel for
fellowship training for graduate degree or study;



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(e) assist the program directors in the design of civil
works facilities and in the selection of equipment
to be acquired under the project; and
(f) contribute directly to the research programme in
their special field of expertise.
Research Specialists
4.        For each of the national research,programs, internationally ex-
per!renced research specialists will help in establishing and implementing
tli research program and training of the local staff. These research
,,,specialists will have a wide research experience on the commodity con-
cerned.  They will be able to provide guidance and advice to their
Indonesian colleagues.
5.        Each research specialist would:
(a) assist program scientists to develop, and participate
in, commodity-oriented adaptive research programs
that are problem solving and multi-disciplinary;
(b) furnish leadership in establishing national
coordinated research programs involving partici-
pation by scientists of regional research stations
and other institutions, including annual and periodic
workshops for research planning and review;
(c) arrange on-the-job training of local staff;
(d) assist in the selection of personnel for training
and fellowships;
(e) assist in the location and guidance of fellowships
abroad; and
(f) contribute directly to the research programs in
their special field of expertise.
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Terms of Reference for Agriculture Extension Advisor
and Information Specialists
1.        The National Information Center (NIC) of the Agency for Education,
Training and Extension (AETE) requires the services of four internationally
recruited agricultural information specialists. One of these specialists
would be called agricultural extension advisor/specialist and would advise
and assist the head of NIC and his staff. The three others would be called
information specialists and would advise and assist the regional agricul-
tural information centers in Java, Sumatra and the other islands respec-
tively. These four specialists would be recruited directly or through
international or bilateral assistance, under terms and conditions accepta-
ble to the Bank, with the following terms of reference. As a team they
would be responsible to the Head of the extension bureau.
Agricultural Extension Advisor/Specialist
2.        The agricultural extension advisor/specialist would be an exten-
sion specialist who is familiar with the techniques of information dissemi-
nation. He would have good experience in managing extension services and
defining programs in this field. He would also have the ability to commu-
nicate effectively with others.
3.        The agricultural extension advisor/specialist would advise and
assist the head of NIC and his staff in:
(a)  designing and organizing training programs in
agricultural information;
(b) formulating, designing and supervising agri-
cultural information programs;
(c)  the selection of staff for NIC and regional
centers;
(d) the selection and placement overseas of
professional personnel for fellowship train-
ing or study;
(e) the selection of equipment to be acquired under
the project;



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(f) developing the organization, administration
and management of information centers;
(g)  establishing good working relationships with
research program;
(h) developing an evaluation system for agricul-
tural information;
(i)  integrating the work program for NIC with those
of other units of AETE and of the Ministry of
Agriculture; and
(j) other appropriate tasks as requested by the
head of the agency.
Agricultural Information Specialists
4.        The three agricultural information specialists would be extension
specialists familiar with the techniques of information dissemination. They
would have professional experience in managing of extension service programs.
They would advise and assist the regional information centers in Java,
Sumatra and the outer islands respectively.
5.        The agricultural information specialists would assist the heads of
the regional centers and their staffs in:
(a) developing and participating in effective
communications media oriented information
programs to benefit the agricultural com-
munity;
(b)  on-the-job training of information center
staffs;
(c) the selection of personnel for training and
fellowships;
(d) the location and guidance of fellowships
abroad;
(e) organizing and managing the centers;
(f) establishing good working relationships with
research programs;
(g) organizing and participating in training programs
for extension workers;



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(h) integrating the work programts for the centers
with those of other units of AETE and of the
provincial extension authorities; and
(i) other appropriate tasks as requested by the
head of the agency.
March 31, 1975



ANNETX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSIO.N
Terms of Reference for Project Fellowship Awards
1.        Selection of personnel for fellowships for training abroad and
Indonesia would be processed through selection boards by the Agency for
Research and Development (ARD) for research fellowships and by the Agency
for Education, Training and Extension (AETE) for extension fellowships.
Candidate approval would be made by the heads of these two organizations or
their designees with the Heads of the Research Centers and National Agricul-
tural Information Center respectively. The selection would be with the
advice and assistance of the internationally recruited Research Programs
Administrator, Information Administrator, research group leaders, information
co-supervisors and research specialists.
2.        The university or training institution and the course of training
would be approved by the joint agreement of the senior center staff, the
research programs and information administrators, research specialistsand
information co-supervisors. The internationally recruited staff would advise
in making institutional contacts abroad and arrangements for placement of
the personnel, in consultation with the organization obtained to administer
the overseas component of the fellowship program.
3.        Fellowships would be of two types:
(a) long term fellowships leading to the award of a doctorate
or masters level degree, requiring approximately four
or two years respectively. Where possible, the graduate
thesis would be based upon an Indonesian agricultural
problem and return visits would be encouraged, especially
during summer semesters to obtain data and provide
orientation to Indonesia's needs prior to receiving
the graduate degree; and
(b) short term fellowships for senior staff for v,isits to
selected international institutions involved in
activities similar to those of the programs and centers.
These fellowships would be up to six months duration.



ANNEX 15
Page   2
4.        An indicative break down for the fellowships would be as follows:
Numbert of Fellowships
Program                                    Long Term  Short Term
Rice                                               18           8
Palawiia Crops.                                    18           9
Highland Vegetables                                14           7
Rubber                                             26          13
Other ARD Programs                                 13           7
Agricultural Information                           30          10
Total                  119          54
5.        Long term fellowships would be in countries, including Indonesia
that can provide the training most appropriate for the needs of the project.
Short term fellowships would be for visits to specific institutions or
countries abroad for specific project purposes.
6.        All fellowships would be conditional on recipients agreeing to
return to, or remain,-in Indonesia for service in government research or
extension for a minimum period equivalent to the time spent in training
under the fellowship.
7.        Estimated cost for overseas long term fellowships is US$12,000
per year and reflects present international experience plus additional travel
costs to return to Indonesia to work on the thesis prior to receiving the
graduate degree.  Estimated cost per short term fellowship is US$1,000 per
month. Estimated cost of long term fellowships in Indonesia is US$5,000
per year.
8.        The 'Ministry of Agriculture would organize the fellowship programi
by making contract arrangements satisfactory to the Bank  with the same
international research organization or organizations, selected to handle the
recruitment and financial administration of the internationally recruited
technical assistance personnel.
November 1, 1974



ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Fellowships Program
1.        Under the project, fellowships would be provided for ARD and
AETE staff to pursue their studies in Indonesia or abroad. These fellow-
ships would cover short-term training abroad, studies for the M.Sc. both
in Indonesia and abroad and studies for the Ph.D., mainly abroad. An
indicative allocation for these studies between the programs is shown in
Table 1.
2.        Fellowships would be available for professionals and senior
technicians engaged in the research programs and working in the information
centers to be set up under this project. In addition, about 20 fellowships
for the Headquarters and other programs staff under the authority of ARD
would be provided. The final distribution of these additional fellowships
among the programs will be at the discretion of the Ilead of ARD, acting
on the advice of the Research Programs Coordinator, and subject to Bank
approval. Preference will be given to established staff having satisfactory
performance records. New hired staff would normally be required to spend
at least one year at the research or information centers before they are
awarded a fellowship. Beneficiaries would be bound to work on the appro-
priate program for a period equal to the duration of the fellowship after
their return.
3.        Short-term fellowships would be mainly for senior research staff.
They would consist of tours and residential periods of about six months in
foreign universities and national or international research or extension
centers. The unit cost of such short-term training fellowships is estimated
at US$6,000.
4.        Studies for the M.Sc. would last two years on the average; they would
be offered to professional or senior technician personnel who already hold
a B.Sc. These studies could be taken in Indonesian or foreign universities.
The cost per year is estimated around US$5,000 in Indonesian universities,
US$12,000 in foreign universities.
5.        Studies for the Ph.D. would be open to professionals holding an
M.Sc.; they will also be offered, as an extension of their studies, to
staff members who had initially been selected for an M.Sc. On an average,
these studies should last four years. Since few Indonesian agricultural
universities offer studies for the Ph.D., it is expected that most of
these fellowships would be for studies in foreign universities; their cost
per year is estimated around US$12,000.



ANNEX 16
Page   2
6.        Since the academic qualifications and suitability for further study
of the Suture staff cannot be assessed at this time, it is assumed that
fellowships equivalent to about 90% of the final professional staff estab-
lishment would be awarded, broken down as follows 1/:
30%7' for short term training
15%' for an M.Sc. in Indonesia
30% for an 'f.Sc. abroad
15% for a Ph.D. abroad
7.        Numbers and costs of fellowships, determined under the above
assumptions, are given in Tables 1 and 2.
Attached: Tables 1 and 2.
October 31, 1974
1/   These percentages are, of course, averages and final allocation with
regard to both program and type of studv will be determined by the head
of the respective agency, acting on the advice of the program directors
and their technical assistance advisers.



ANNEX 16
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Feflovships for Training in Indonesia and Abroad:!
- -----Project Research Program------
Palawija    Highland              Other ARD  Information
Rice   Crops     Vegetables   Rubber   Progr          Centars     Total
Short term                8       9           7          13         7            10         54
M.Sc. in Indonesia       4        4           3           6         4             9         30
M.Sc. abroad              9       9           7          13         5            12         55
Ph.D.                    5        5           4           7         A            2          3
Total fellowships       26       27          21          39        20            40        173
Professional staffl/   28       29           23         48          _            51
/ The breakdown given here is only indicative with regard both to the type of fellow-
ship and the distribution among the programs.
i/ These fellowships will be for other ARD staff, including those in other institutes
and at Headquarters, and are intended to strengthen overall research program,
professional staff planning and administrative competence and to support other
priority crop programs identified during the course of the project.
/ Restriction of fellowships to 90% of the professional staff at full establishment
will provide an element of competition for these awards, and will reduce the possi-
bility of selecting personnel who are unlikely to benefit substantially from more
advanced training.
Nov. 1, 1974



ANNEX 16
Table 2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EOTE!NION
Phasing and Cost of the FeflowaiDs Progra!/
------Year------------------                         Cost
Fellowship              T         1       2       L     IL      5      6   Total  (US$'OOOs)
Short term
(unit cost $6,000)                  3      12     13     13      13     --     54        324
M.Sc. in Indonesia       starting    -      10     10      10     --      -      30        --
($5,000 per year)      on-going    -       10     20     20      10     --     60        300
M.Sc. abroad             starting    -      18     19      18     --     --      55--
($12,000 per year)     on-going    -       18     37     37      18     --    110      1,320
Ph.D. abroad             starting    -      17     17     --      --     --      34        --
($12,000 per year)     on-going    -       17     34     34      34     17    136      1.632
Total Cost   /                                                                          3,576
1/ This phasing is only indicative.
2/  In constant 1975 terms
November 1, 1975



ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDONES IA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Civil Works Program
Costs
1.        Uncertainties regarding site conditions and future costs for
construction and equipment prevent precise braeketing of the cost of this
project component.
2.        The exact location of the buildings for some of the centers could
not be decided at appraisal. A 25 cm contour and a soil survey of the land
for the National Centers for Rice and for Palawija Crops at Sukamandi is
required to confirm the suitability of the site and to aid the preparation
of a masterplan which would identify the sites for buildings, and facilitate
the design of an efficient irrigation cum drainage system. The possibility
of utilizing some of the unoccupied land within the National Seed Corporation
compound for staff housing and other amenities also needs to be investigated.
The National Center for Rubber at Sungei Putih has been previsionally located
in proximity to the existing PNP V's headquarters compound at Sungei Karang
but this must be refined after subsoil and topographic surveys have been
undertaken. It is known that 10 houses in the Sungei Karang compound could
be made over for professional and senior technical staff, while additional
unoccupied land within the compound could be used for the remainder of the
housing needs.
3.        The uncertainties bearing on the cost of construction in Indonesia
are even bigger. Construction cost increased by 34% in 1973. Even though
no comparable figure was available for equipment cost, it has admittedly
increased considerably. Bearing in mind both that Indonesia has a long
history of inflation and that construction costs have been escalating
rapidly during the past year throughout the world, it is impossible to
predict the escalation of construction cost with any reasonable degree
of accuracy. The price contingencies retained for this component must
necessarily be very high; in view of the recent history,of price escalation,
even these may turn out to be conservative.
Civil Works Implementation
4.        A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has already been established
within AETE to administer the Agricultural Education Project (IND 223). The
present staff is adequate to deal with the additional responsibility of the



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Agricultural Information Centers. A new PIU however, must be established
within ARD to administer the Research Centers construction and equipment
program. The PIU would be staffed by an architect (Appendix 1) appointed
or seconded by the PWD, a financial administrator to 'be provided through
consultancy services during the first three years of the project, and an
equipment procurement officer together with supporting staff. The procure-
ment officer would be supported as required by consultancy services in the
area of Bank procurement procedures and also in establishing the essential
pre-ordering schedule for laboratory equipment and supplies.
Professional Services
5.        The technical problems presented by the Information Centers and
more particularly by the Research Centers are within the competence of local
architects and engineers and no foreign consultancy services are recommended.
Architects would be selected from a prequalified list through the standard
procedures of the PWD and the appointments will be subject to Bank approval.
The appointment of local architects, however, would be conditional on their
associating with Project Construction Management and Cost Control Consultants
in order to strengthen these aspects of project implementation. Consultants
with this expertise are currently represented in Jakarta. BAPPENAS has
appreciated the value of their services and has agreed a fee of 4% of con-
struction costs, which has been included in the project budget. Terms of
reference for these consultants are set out in Appendix 2.
6.        Resident Clerks of Works would be appointed at each site to pro-
vide day to day supervision of the construction work. They would be subject
to the direction of the executive architects who would provide customary
periodic supervision.
Pre-financing
7.        Local funds are available to finance professional services includ-
ing preliminary surveying work and the establishment of the PIU for ARD. An
early start to the civil works program, ahead of loan effectiveness, will
therefore be possible.
Sites
8.        All sites are now owned by GOI except Sungei Putih/Sungei Karang
which is at present nominally owned by PNP V, even though it does not possess
clear title to the land. Problems of site acquisition should not arise.
Development Plan and Report
9.        A development plan and report for each research center will be pre-
pared by the Director, the Program Advisor and the project unit architect in
collaboration with the executive architects, construction management and cost
control consultants.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
The topics should cover, inter alia:
(a) Site development plan for both land and physical
facilities;
(b) Soil, sub-soil and climatic data, together with
topographical survey;
(c) Functional program indicating outline of proposed
activities and staff needs;
(d)  Schedule of accommodation refining the material in
this annex as necessary;
(e) Preliminary list of major laboratory equipment;
(f)  Preliminary budget covering land preparation, civil
works, furnishing and equipment; and
(g) Anticipated progress schedule for implementing the
construction program.
Each plan and report will be subject to Bank review and approval.
With regard to the AETE Information Centers, site surveys and
preliminary site development plans will be submitted for review and approval.
Basis for Cost Estimates
10.       In working out the cost estimates for the various centers, the
following assumptions have been used:
(a) The construction costs of the buildings were computed
on the basis of the existing cost in Jakarta. A "pro-
vincial cost variation" was then added or subtracted
to allow for regional differences in construction cost
(see Tables 6 to 10). All sites are in rural areas, and
in consequence an allowance has been made for well con-
struction, pumps and electric generators. The allow-
ance for cost escalation has been reflected in the
overall project cost estimates (Annex 18) rather than
in the civil works cost estimates for individual centers
(Tables 6-9 of this annex).
(b) 9% of the construction cost has been allowed for
professional fees (5% for architectural and engineer-
ing fees and 4% for construction management and cost
control).



ANNEX 17
Page 4
(c)  Housing has been provided of-an appropriate stand-
ard and construction costs have been based on the
unit costs established by BAPPENAS. The availa-
bility of some existing houses has been taken-into
account.
(d) The schedule of accommodation prepared for each research
center is based on the proposed staffing, the functional
program and the support services needed. These schedules
of accommodation are provisional and are intende'd to pro-
vide a measure of the construction needed. It is anti-
cipated that the schedules will be refined after the
appointment of the program directors and advisers for
each center, and the executive architects have been made.
(e)  The requirements and costs of research equi:pment has been
estimated from recent comparable experience in Indonesia.
To arrive at the approximate cost of furniture an estimate
of US$100 per office-based staff has been used.
(f) In the light of experience with farm development, field
equipment and vehicles in international research centers,
a fixed ratio per professional staff was assumed for these
types of equipment:  US$2,000 per professional for farm
development, US$2,750 for field equipment and US$3,000
for vehicles.  The allowance for farm development is
deemed to cover road works, irrigation, boundary fencing
and land shaping.
Attached: Appendices 1 and 2
Tables I - 9
Chart
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 17
APPENI)iIX 1
Page  1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Outline of responsibilities of the Project Implementation
Unit Architect
1.        The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be the locus of overall
project coordination and liaison witih the Bank in respect to civil works and
equipment.  Tihe staff of the PIU will include an architect appointed or
seconded from the Public Works Department who will provide professional
counsel to the client agency (ARD) and administer and maintain progress in
thte civil works component of thle project on behalf of that agency.  He will
be supported by a financial administrator and an equipment procurement
officer, accounting, secretarial and clerical staff.
2.        In particular the responsibilities of the PIU architect will
include:
(a)  assisting ARD in assembling the architectural brief for tile
executive architects.
(1))  assisting APR  and PWD with tuie selection and appointment of
the executive architects and the retaining of other
professional services.
(c)  participating witlh  RD and the executive arcllitects in
preparing the development plan report for each of the
Research Centers.
(d) arran%'ing for the review and approval of architectural and
engineering reports, plans, specifications, equipment
lists and other submitted material by ARD and the i3ank at
the following stages:
(i)  sche-.latic design,
(ii) final design; and
(iii) working drawings and contract documents.
(e) participating in the following:
(i) weekly meetings between the client body and thle
executive arclhitects during the desigin phase;



.,:>: 17
AMPPENDJIX 1
Page   2
(ii)  monthly progress meetings with the contractors
and architects during thle construction phase;
(iii) selection and prequalification of contractors;
(iv) approval and supervision of bidding procedures; and
(v)  adjudication and award of contracts.
(f)  ensuring that furniture and equipr.ent is designed and installed
according to specification as well as ensLiring timely procurement
in order that the Centers may be commissioned on schedule.
(g)  overseeing project progress, make weekly progress reports to
ARD and quarterly reports-to the Bank;
(h)  processing contractors bills for payment bv tile Finance
Mlinistry and subsequent forwarding to the Bank for
disbursement; and
(i)  preparing a commissioning program, and at the completion of
construction participate with the executive architects in
advising ARD on the acceptance of the completed buildings.
November 27, 1974



AX NL 17
ArPEND)IX. 2
Page 1
INIDONESIA
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Terms of Reference for Project Construction Management and
Cost Control Consultants
These consultants should be associated with the executive architects
to supplement and strengthen management and cost control aspects of the pro-
ject. Appropriately skilled consultants are currently available in Jakarta.
They would:
(a)  establish and manage a work program, utilizing appropriate
programming tools such as network analysis, for all activities
during the design, construction and commissioning phases of
the project. This includes establishment of a pre-ordering
schedule for major equipment and materials taking into account
anticipated lead time;
(b) provide cost control services. In the design phase this
will include advice on alternative construction methods and
materials taking into account regibnal variations in availa-
bility and costs of material and labour. During the working
drawings and specification phase a Bill of Quantities should
be prepared on the basis of "The Standard Ilethod of Measure-
ment of Building Works for Indonesia", (December 1973). This
Bill of Quantities should form part of the contract documents;
(c) provide counsel on the prequalification of contractors, and
advise on adaptations required to the standard form of
construction contract now frequently used, namely the
"Standard Form of Contract with Quantities of the Singapore
Institute of Architects";
(d) participate in the checking and evaluation of bids and
award of contracts;
(e) prepare cash flow projections to indicate funding requirements
throughout the construction period;
(f) provide field inspection to monitor construction progress and
assist architects and contractors to maintain momentum of work,
and to ensure that materials used are in accordance with the
specification;



LANN EX 1 7
APpE,N,DIX 2
Page 2
(g) measure construction work and verify contractors monthly bills;
(h) evaluate contractors claims for extra work and process
charge orders; and
(i) assist with the preparation of final accounts.
November 27, 1974



ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                                 Table 1
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Schedule of Accommodation: National Research Centers for Rice & PalawiJa Crops
(Combined
Staff or      No. of                    Total Area
Space              Capacity       Units4      Area m2           m2
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Joint Laboratories
Pathology                   6 techs.       1           150             150
4 assts.
Preparation Room                         1            25              25
Entomology                   6 techs.      1           150             150
4 assts.
Preparation Room                         1            25              25
Instrument Room (a/cXshared)             1            25              25
Researchers Offices          1             4             18             72
Secretaries & Filing                                                    30
Soils Science               4 techs.       1           150             150
6 assts.
Preparation Room                         1            25              25
Instrument Room (a/c)                    1            15              15
Researchers Office          1              2            18              36
Secretaries & Filing                                                    15
Crop Quality & Nutrition
Chemistry                   4 techs.       1           120             120
4 assts.
Preparation Room                         1            .25             25
Physiology                  4 techs.       1           120             120
4 assts.
Preparation Room                         1            25              25
Instrument Room (a/c)(shdre)             1            25              25
Glassware & Chemical Store               1            35              35
Researchers Offices          1             6            18             108
Secretaries & Filing                                                    40
B. Administrative Offices -
Director                  1              1            18              18
Research Co-ordinator     1              1            16.5            16.5
Assistants                 2             1             22             22
Secretary General         1              1            16.5            16.5
Assistants                 2             1            22              22
Secretaries and Filing    6              1            42              42
Clerks                    3              2            14             .28
Storage and Photocopy     1              1            10              10
C. Technical Services 1/
Experimental Design and
Analysis                1              1            16.5            16.5
Assts., Clerks & Secs.  5              1            35              35
Economist/Farm Management 1              1            16.5            16.5
Assts.,Clerks & Secs.   6              1            42              42
Subject Matter Speaiaists  1             3            16.5            49.5
Assistants              3              2            33              66
Secretaries             3              1            21              21



ANNEX 17
Table 1
Page 2
Staff or    No. of                     Total Area
Space             Capacity    Units   -,Area m2               m2
Publication and Photo         1          1           16.5             16.5
Studio & Darkroom           4          1           28               28
Library                                  1           30               30
Display & Periodicals       1          1           25               25
Office                      1          1           18               18
Stacks (a/c)           10,000 books    1           55               55
Wo2?kroom                   2          1           20               20
D. Crop Improvement 2/
Breeders                      1          5           16.5             82.5
Assistants                                                         110
Secretaries & Filing                                                28
E.  Crop Production 1/
Agronomists                   1          8           16.5            132
Assistants                                                         374
Secretaries & Filing                                                85
F. Ancillaries 1/
Lecture Room (a/c) with
Projection                 35          1           52               52
Conference Rooms             10          3           18               54
Exhibition/Reception                     1           50               50
G. Support
General Storage & Records                                             75
Toilets                                                              175
Cleaners                                                              30
Plant Room & Switch Gear                                              40
3117
Grossing factor 35%      1091
Total Gross Area         4208
2.  FIELD SERVICES CENTER
General Service Building                                               500
Field Chemical Store                                                   100
Fertilizer Store                                                       300
Tractors & Mechanical Workshop                                         400
Maintenance Workshop                                                   100
Offices, Farm Manager
Engineer
Assistants
Clerical, Secretaries & Filing                               100
1,500



ANNEX 171
Table 1
Page 3
Staff or    No. of                      Total Area
Space             Capacity    Units       -Area m2             m
ADDITIONAL FIELD SERVICE FACILITIES FOR RICE (Supplementing Credit 246-IND) -
Vehicle Service Shop                                                     150
Implement Sheds                                                          500
Service Building                                                         400
Expt'l Samples Drying Area                                               250
Expt'l Materials Shed Storage                                            100
Green Houses                                                             100
Screen Houses                                                          1,000
3. SCREEN HOUSES ETC.                                                           2,500
Screen Houses                                                          1,000
Green Houses                                 3         200               600
Implement & Vehicle Sheds                                                500
2,100
4. DRYING FLOORS                                                                211
Experimental Sample Drying Area                                          500
Seed Drying Area                                                       1,000
1,500
5.  HOUSING AND MESSES
Directors                  2 houses                    250               500
Experts                    6 houses                    240             1,440
Professionals             33 houses                    150             4,950
Senior technical          37 houses                    120             4,440
Junior technical           9 houses                     70               630
Clerical & General        25 houses                     36               900
Mess accommodation
Professionals             17 places                     20               340
Senior technical          37 places                     20               740
Junior technical          38 places.                    15               570
Clerical & General        24 places                     12               288
14,798
General note:  This schedule of accommodation is based on the assumption that (i) new
laboratories will be provided for the combined rice and palawija research
programs; (ii) the recently completed buildings will be utilized for the
non-laboratory functions of the rice program; and (iii) new facilities
will be provided for the non-laboratory functions of the palawija program.
j These facilities are primarily for the palaw'ija program.
2 These facilities are primarily for palawija but could be constructed
as an addition to the rice field service center.
f This is an extension to the rice field service center.
Located in the existing NSC village.
Ten junior techniciar accommodated in existing houses.
Rice experts accommodated in existing seven experts houses.
March 25, 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 2
INDONESIA                               Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Schedule of Accommodation: National Research Center for Highland Vegetables
(Extension to existing facilities I
Staff or      No. of                     Total Area
Space                  Capacity      Units        Area m2            m2
CENTRAL FACILITIES
A.  Labc-atories
Entomology                   1 tech.     1            30               30
1 asst.
Pathology                    1 tech.     1            30               30
1 asst.
Soil Science, Water          3 techs.    1            90               90
Management & Agronomy      3 assts.
(Nutrition)
Preparation Room                                                     25
Instrument Room (a/c)                                                10
Breeding & Seed Technology  4 techs.    1            150              150
6 assts.
Physiology, Post Harvest    3 techs.    1             90               90
Physiology & Eng./Food    3 assts.
Technology
Preparation Room                                                     30
Instrument Room (a/c)                                                20
Glassware & Chemical Store                                           20
Researchers Offices          1          12            18              216
Secretaries & Files                                                    80
B. Support
Toilets                                                                20
Cleaners                                                               15
Plant Room and Switch Gear                                             15
General Storage and Records                                            30
871
Grossing factor 35%                305
Total Gross Area                 1,175
2.  FIELD SERVICES CENTER
Additional Storage Facilities                                         100
3.  GREEN HOUSES                                                                200



ANNEX 17
-2-                                Table 2
Page 2
Staff or       No. Of              2          Total2 Area
Space              Capacity       Units         Area m                m
4.  HOUSING AND MESSES
Houses
Director                      1             1            250                  250
Experts                       5             5            240                1,200
Professionals                11            11            150               1,650
Mess accommodation
Professionals                 6             6             20                 120
Senior technical              9             9             20                  180
Junior technical             10            10             15                 150
3,550
1/  It is assumed that the following, functions will be accommodated in upgraded
space in existing buildings:
Administration
Technical Services
Library
Conference & Seminar Rooms
Potato Storage
Refrigerated Storage
Green Houses
2/  (a)  The nine existing houses will,be allocated to senior technicians.
(b) Adequate housing is assumed to be available locally for married junior technicians.
(c) Experts and professionals housing will be located at Lembang.
March 25, 1975



ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                                Table 3
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Schedule of Accommodation: National Research Center for Rubber
Staff or      No. of                    Total Area
Space                Capacity       Units       Area m2           m
I.  Rubber Research Center. Sunmei Putih. Sumatra
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Administrative Offices
Senior Administrators        1           4           16.5            66
Assistants                   2           6            22            132
Clerical and Secretarial                                             55
Storage and Photocopy                    1           10              10
B. Laboratories
Breeding                     3 techs.I   1          105             105
4 assts.
Plant Physiologist &         3 techs.    1          105             105
Biochemistry              4 assts.
Crop Protection              4 techs.    1          180             180
8 assts.
Preparation Room                       1           60              60
Instrument Room (a/c)                  1           40              40
Soil Science                 6 techs.    1          270             270
12 assts.
Processing Technology       3 techs.    1           135             135
6 assts.
Preparation Room                       1           60              60
Instrument Room (a/c)                  1           40              40
Glassware & Chemical Store               1           40              40
Researchers Offices          1          14           18             252
Secretaries & Files                                                 100
C. Agronomy
Professionals               1            6           16.5            99
Assistants                   3           7            33            231
Clerical & Secretarial                                               65
D. Economics/Statistics/Biometrics
Professionals                1           2           16.5            33
Assistants                   3           2            33             66
Clerical & Secretarial                                               14
E. Subject Matter Specialists
Professionals                1           2            16.5           33
Assistants                   2           2            22             44
Clerical and Secretarial    2            1           14              14
F. Ancillaries
Lecture room with
Projection (a/c)         50            1            75             75
Exhibition Foyer                         1            30             30
Conference rooms            10           3            18             54
Library
Display and periodicals   1            1            25             25
Office                                 1            18             18
Stacks (a/c)         10,000 vols.      1            55             55
Workroom                   2           1            20             20



ANNEX 17
Table 3
Page 2
Staff or       No. of                   -Total Area
Space                Capacity        Uiiits     Area m2            m2
G. Support
General Storage & Records                                           100
Toilets                                                             150
Cleaners                                                             40
Plant Room & Switch Gear                                             50
2, 866
Grossing factor 35%              1.003
3,869
2. FIELD SERVICES CENTER
Field Chemicals Store                                                 100
Fertilizer Store                                                      300
Tractors & Mechanical Workshop                                        400
Maintenance Workshop                                                  100
Offices. Plantation Manager
Engineer
Secretarial & Clerical                                      100
1,000
3. SCREEN HOUSES ETC.
Screen Houses & Green Houses                                        1,200
Implement & Vehicle Sheds                                             600
4. HOUSING AND MESSESI/                                                    1,800
Directors                1 house                        250           250
Professionals            9 houses                       150         1,350
Senior technical        16 houses                       120         1,920
Junior technical        12 houses                        70           840
Clerical & General      12 houses                        36           432
Mess accommodation
Professionals           10 places                        20           200
Senior technical        16 places                        20           320
Junior technical        23 places                        15           345
51657
1/ Experts to be accommodated in ten houses currently available at Sungei Putih.



ANNE 1 7
Table 3
Page 3
Staff or       No. Of                     Total Area
Space                 Capacity       Units        Area m2            m
II.  Rubber Research Regional Station. Sembawa
1.  CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Administration
Station Manager               1            1            16.5            16.5
Administrative Secretary    1              1            16.5            16.5
Assistants                    3            1            33              33
Clerical & Secretarial                                                  35
B. Laboratories
Crop Protection               1 tech.      1                            45
2 assts.
Soil Science                  2 techs.    1             90              90
4 assts.
Processing Technology         1 tech.      1            45              45
2 assts.
Preparation Room                         1            30              30
Instrument Room (a/c)                   1             20              20
Glassware & Chemical Store               1            15              15
Researchers Offices           1            3            18              54
Secretaries & Files                                                     21
C. Agronomy
Professionals                 2            2            16.5            33
Assistants                    7                                         77
Clerical & Secretarial                                                  22
D. Subject Matter Specialists
Professionals                 1            1            16.5            16.5
Assistants                    2            1            22              22
Clerical & Secretarial                                                   7
E. Ancillaries
Conference Room                                                         30
Support: Storage, Records, Toilets,
Cleaners, Plant room, Switch gear                            75
703.5
Grossing factor 35%                246
949.5
2. FIELD SERVICES CENTEIR
Fertilizer & Field Chemical Store                                        200
Tractors & Mechanical Workshop                                           200
Maintenance Workshop                                                      50
Engineers Office &a Clerical Support                                      50
500



ANNEX 17
Table 3
Page 4
Staff or     No. of                     Total Area
Space                  Capacity      Units       Area m2           m
3. SCREEN HOUSES ETC.
Screen Houses                                                        200
Implement & Vehicle  Sheds                                           200
400
4. HOUSING AND MESSES
Professionals               7 houses                  150          1,050
Senior technical            5 houses                  120            600
Junior technical            4 houses                   70            280
Clerical & General          4 houses                   36            144
Mess accommodation
Professionals               3 places                   20             60
Senior technical            5 places                   20            100
Junior technical            9 places                   15            135
2,369
March 25, 1975



ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                                Table 4
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Schedule of Accommodation: National AaricultLral Information Center. Bogor
Staff or      No. of                     Total Area
Space               Capacity       Units       Area m2            m2
1.  CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Administration
Director                       1          1            20             20
Foreign Experts                1          4            1665           66
Senior Staff Professionals    1           5            16.5           82.5
Junior Staff Members           2          2            22             44
Secretaries                                                           42
Storage & Files                           1            10             10
B. Production
Photographic Studio &
Dark Room                    5          1            20             20
Filmroom/Previewstudio         1          1            12             12
Recording Studio               2          1            20             20
Illustration Studio            2          1            22             22
Printing & Duplicating                    1            40             40
rnstrument Workshop           1           1           15              15
Storage                                   1            20             20
C. Ancillaries
Conference Room              4O           1           65               65
ReceDtion/Exhibition                      1            30             30
Library                                                               4O
Librarians Office              1          1            16.5           16.5
Work Room                      1          1            12             12
D. Support
Toilets                                   4             5             20
Cleaner                                   1             2              2
Tea Pantry                                1             5              5
Electric Plant Room                       1             5               5
Garage & Mechanical Workshop                                          50
659
Grossing factor 25%               166
Total Gross Area                  825
2. HOUSING
Director's House                            1           120            120
Foreign Expert Houses                       4           120            480
Senior Staff Houses                         5            70            350
Junior Staff Houses                         4            70            280
Total Gross Area                1,230
December 24, 1974



ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                               Table 5
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Schedule of Accommodation: Provincia. Agricultural Information Dissemination Centers
Staff or     No. of                    Total Area
Space                Capacity      Units       Area m2           m2
1. CENTRAL FACILITIES
A. Administration
Director                       1          1            16.5           16.5
Asst. Director                 1          1            16.5           1605
Staff Offices                  1          3            13             39
Secretaries                                                           21
Storage and Files                         1            10          -- 10
B.  Production
Printing and Duplicating                  1            30             30  K
Photographic Studio and
Darkroom                                1            20             20
Illustration Studio                       1           15              15
Recording Studio                          1            15             15
Workshop                                  1            15             15
Storage                                   1            20             20
C. Ancillaries
Conference Room               25          1            40             40
Library                                   1           25              25
Reception/Exhibition                      1            25             25
D. Support
Toilets                                   2             5             10
Cleaner                                   1             2              2
Tea Pantry                                1             5              5
Electric Plant Room                       1            5               5
330
Grossing factor 25%                   82.5
412.5
2. HOUSING
Director's House                            1           120            120
Senior Staff Houses                         5            70            350
Junior Staff Houses                         4            50            200
Garage                                                                  25
695
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 6
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Cost Estimate: National Research Centers for Rice and Palawijia Crops
1.  Construction cost, including site works 6/                    Rupiahs           US' 1/
deep well, pump and generator
Central facilities          4208m2 @ 165,000 rps/m2  694,320,000        1,673,000
Field Service Center        1500m2 @  50,000  t"        75,000,000        181,000
Green/screen haouses &
hImprovecent shsds      2100n,2 @  20,000  i       42,000,000         101,000
Drying floors               150om2 @  7,300  tI         10,500,000         25,000
Housing                    1480Cm   @ 60,ooo  "        900,000,000      2,169,000
Clinic                       400m2 @ 100,000  "         40,000,000         96,000
Upgrading schools (a]Llo-ance)                          41,355,000        100,000
T tJ3, 1 75, uvu  4,3145,000
2.  Provincial cost variation (-8%)                             144,420,000        348,ooo
1,656,755,000      3,997,000
3.  Design contingsncy (10%)                                    166,000,000        400,000
1824, 755,000      4,397,000
4.  Construction contingency (10%)                              182,600,000        440,000
2,007a,355,000     4,o837,000
5. Professional fees
5% architecture & engineering
4% construction management                             180,525,OGO        435,000
2,1d7,550,000      2,7 F, MT
6.  Clerk of Works - ll years                                    2,905,000           7,000
2,190,78,0         5,7,0
7.  Equipment
23 Lab staff x (say) 4,500,000 rps i  /$               103,335,000        249,000
Clinic equipment and furniture                           8,300,000         20,000
8.  Office furniture
190 x (say) 41,500 rps 2/2/                              7,885 000         19 000
5--310,305,D       5,6,0
9.  Additional field service facilities for rice
component supplementing Credit 246-INm
(Costs derived by E.V. Aggasid 19 Aug. 1974)
Vehicle service shop              )
Implement shed                    )
Services building                 )
Expt'l samplee drying area        )                         112,465,000        271,000
Expt'l materials shed storage   )
Green houses                      )
Screen houses                     )
2,1422,770,000     5,3,0
10. Total 4/
1/ 415 rps = US$ 1.00 (Oct. 1974)
/ Order of magnitude estimate based on Tea Institate at Gambung.
.Prices current at March 1974.
J Rough estimate at $100 per office based staff.
L  Based on construction costs at Oct. 1974.  Construction costs are unstable and no
estimate can be made of actual cost by time of completion. Hence a nominal
cost escalation factor will be applied as described in Annex 18, Table 3.
$1 Laboratory equipment and furniture for rice component covered in Credit 246-IND
t/ The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 1 7
INDONESIA                              Table 7
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Cost Estimate: National Research Center foriHighland Vegetables
Rupiahs           US$ /
1.  Construction costs, including site works, /5
well, pump (main electrical supply available)
New Laboratories       1175m2 @ 180,000 rps/A2  kil,o3U,000           510,000
Field Service Centre    100m2 t  50,000 rps/m2    5,000,000            12,000
Housing                3550m2 @  60,000 rps/m2  212,895,000           513,000
Upgrading extg. bldgs. 10OOm2 @  30,000 rps/m2   29,880,000            72,000
Greenhouse              200m2 e  20,000 rps/m2    4,150 000            10 000
-u3              m1 7,000
2.  Provincial cost variation (-8%)                   36,935,000           89,000
4-26.620 000 o,o2FW
3. Design contingency (10%)                           42,745,000          103,000
469.365.000       1,131,000
4X  Construction contingency (10%)                    46 895,000          113 000
bl o, z,u. u44, 000
5. Professional fees
5% architecture & engineering
4% construction management                      46,480,o00          112,000
56o2.740 000      1,356,0o
6.  Clerk of Works, 1 year                              1,660,000           4O00
7. Equipment                       /21103002800
26 Lab. staff x Rs4,500,000 -                  117,030,000          282,000
8.  Office furniture
70 staff x Rs41,500/3                             2,905,000 l7000
9.  Tota:4                                            684,335.000 o,649,000
/1   415 rps. = US$ 1.00 (Oct. 1974)
/2   Order of magnitude estimate based on Tea Institute at Gambung.
Prices current at March, 1974.
/3  FRugh estimate at $100 per office based staff.
/A   Based on construction costs at Oct. 1974.  Construction costs are unstable
and no estimate can be made of actual cost by time of completion. Hence
a nominal cost escalation factor will be applied as described in Annex 18.
/5   The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and
land reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development.
March 27, 1975



INDONESIA                               ANNEX 17
Table 8
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Cost Estimate: National Research Center for Rubber
Rapiahs        US$ 1/
1.  Construction cost, including site works,
well, pup and generator.
Central facilities  4818m2 @ 160,000 rps/m2 771,070,000           1,858,000
Field Service
Center         1500m2 @ 50,000 ")        75,115,000            181,000
Screen hozes & sheds1800m  @  20,000  "       35,690,000             86,000
Housing             8026m2 6 60,000  "       481 400 000          1,160,000
f,13 63, 275,000-m    3,2d5,000
2.  Provincial cost variation (+10%)              136,535,000            329,000
1,499,010,000         3,614,000
3.  Design contingency (10%)                      149 815 000            361,000
1,649,625,-00O  33,975,000
4.   Construction contingency (10%)               165,170,000            398,000
l,T14,795,-0          4,373,000
5.   Professional fees
5% architecture and engineering
4% construction management              163,5102000            394,000
V)97M,-305,000        4,1707,000
6.   2 Clerks of Wrks, 1 years                     5 395,000             130000
1,983,7UO,0013 470000
7.   Equipment
65 lab staff x (say) 4,500,000 rps      292,575,000            705,000
8.   Office furniture
150 staff x (say) 41,500 rps 3/           6,225,000             15,000
9.   Total 4                                    2,28 2),500,000        5,500,000
1/   415 rps = US$ 1.00  (March i975).
2/   Order of magnitude estimate based on Tea Institute at Gambung.
Prices current at, March, 1974.
Li'  Dbugh estimate at $100 per office based staff.
k/   Based on construction costs at Oct. 1974.  Construction costs are unstable
and no estimate can be made of actual cost by time of completion. Hence a
nominal cost escalation factor will be applied as described in Annex 18.
2/  The cost of road works, drainage and irrigation, boundary fencing and land
reshaping is carried under the allowance for farm development (Annex 18).
March 27, 1975



ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                                Table 9
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Cost Estimate: National (1) and Provincial (9) Agricultural Information Centers
Rupiahs              u  /1
1. Construction costs, including site
works, well, pump and generator
Central facilities    4537m2 @ 95,OOO rps/m2        431,185,000        1,039,000
Housing                7485x2 @ 60,000 rps/m2       449,030,000        1,082,000
S80721,0-00  2,121,000
2.  Provincial cost variation (avr. + 3.5%)              30 710 000           74,000
910,925,000        2,195,000
3.  Design contingency (10%)                             90,885,000          219,000
1 ,00o,T10,00       2r, 7Wij1000
4. Construction contingency (10%)                       100,O1,000           241,000
1,101,5-25-,00065,0
5. Professional fees /2
5% architectural & engineering
4% construction management                         91 0               239,000
6.  Clerks of Works (10 x 8 months)                      12,035,000            29,000
1,213,O45,000        2,913,000
7.  Equipment  and Furniture/3                          188,825,000           455,000
5.  Total /4                                           1,401,870,000        3,378,000
/1   415 rps = Us$ 1.00 (Oct. 1974)
/2 May be reduced on account of repetitive work.
/3 From preparation report, excluding vehicles, supplies and btiilding equipment.
/4 Based on construction costs at Oct. 1974. Construction costs are unstable
and no estimate can be made of actual cost by time of cmpletion.  Hence a
noeinal cost escalation factor will be applied as described in para 3.19
March 27, 1975



INDnESIA
AGRIaCLTURAL RISKARa! MAD EXTEIQsI
Civil lorks Schedule
BalancS Calendar 1975                 Calendar 1976                       Calendar 1977                        Calendar 1978
42Fiscal 1975-764                       fiscal   _7_-                        l'isc   9F77|70                       Fiscal 119779|
Appointment of archts1
stabithment of PIU       ____.--
Ste surveys and  _.
Deeopment plans =._   
_     Design & constn iction do 'ts. ad) dication                            "h bstrUCUic  24 monl ss                Commis8 ioning
,rm. Research Centers                                                                                                                                         Def              i;t5eod
k.ational Rubber                                    _                                     }Constr4ti_ 91   > =t
Z gtnale terch Cent m  l3 l_  
_. . _ ~~~~~~~~~C                           nstructk  9 montl -   _ __
April 9, 1975                                                                                                                                                               |



ANNEX 18
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Project Cost and Disbursement
Calendar of Implementation
The fiscal year July 75 - June 76 has been taken as year 1 of the
project.
I.   Capital Input:  The first year would be mostly taken up in laying
the ground work i.e. staffing of the PIUs, preparation of the civil works
development and equipment programs for the centers, preliminary design
of the buildings, drawing up of tender documents and invitation of bids.
Physical works works should commence in the second and continue through
the third year of the project. For working out the disbursement schedule,
it was assumed that 10% of the disbursement for this component will take
place in the first year, 25% in the second, 30% in the third and 35% in
the fourth year.
WI. Technical Services:
Specialists: It was assumed that six man-years of consultant
specialist time would be utilized in the first year to help in preparing
development plans. Most of the other specialists would arrive in the
second year. Because of the need for flexibility in the selection of
consultants, and their duration of stay, the calendar for their recruit-
ment has not been firmed up. For disbursement estimating purposes it
was assumed that the man-years for these specialists will be equally spread
over year 2 to 6 of the project.
Fellowships: Their indicative phasing is given in Annex 2,
Table 6. It has been assumed that only a few short-term fellowships will
be taken up in the first year, and that the program would continue through
to year 5; the fellowships for M.Sc. commencing in years 2 to 4 and the
fellowships for Ph.D. in years 2 and 3.
In-Service Training and Library: It was assumed that the expen-
diture for this component should take place early in the project period
(90% of the total expenditure included during the first four years).



ANNEX 18
Page 2
III. Land Purchase: Apart for the rubber research program at Sungei Putih,
all the land required for the project is already owned by the participating
project entities. For Sungei Putih, the land, which belongs to GOI, will
be transferred from PNP V to the Rubber Research Program during the project
period.
IV. Establishment Cost: The establishment cost for each of the entities
participating in the project has been worked out from assumptions on the
build-up of their staff over the project period. These assumptions are
given in the corresponding annexes (Annex 6, Table 3; Annex 7, Table 6;
Annex 8, Table 5; Annex 9, Table 5; Annex 10, Table 4; and Annex 18, Table 1).
Attached: Tables 1 - 6
February 7, 1975



ANNEX 18
Table 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND XTENSIQN
ProJect Cost and Disbursement
Project Cost - Agency for Research and Development
(Constant 1975 US$
Number       Unit Cost         Total
l)  Capital Input
Vehicles ~/30,000
Library Supplies                                                             250,000
Sub-Total                                                                     280,000
2) Technical Services
Specialists
Research programs administrator for 3 years       1          180,000         180,000
Financial administrator for 3 years               1          180,000         180,000
Equipment procurement specialist for 1 year       1           60.000           60,000
In-service language training specialists
.'or 2-: years                                   1         150,onn          150,000
Sub-Total                                                                     570,000
Fellowships Short-term  *                           7            6,000           42,000
Fellowships Long-term                                           1
M.Sc. in Indonesia                                4           10,000           0,000
A.Sc. abroad                                      5           24,ooo          120,000
Ph.D. abroad                                      4           48,000          192,000
Sub-Total                                                                     352,000
Total Technical Services                                                        964,000
3)  Establishment Cost  3/                                                          675,ooo
total                                                                         1,919,000
1/ Automobiles for specialists engaged for more than one year (3).
/ These fellowships are for ARD research centers other than the four included
under the project (See Annex 16).
/ This cost corresponds to the operating cost of the Project Implementation Unit
in the ARD for the project period. The annual operating cost has been taken as
equal to the operating cost of t.he PIU currently existing in the AETE, since
the PIU to be set in ARD will be approximately the same size. It has been assumed
that the PIU in AETE will be able to handle the component of this project related
to extension without any increment in staff.
March 31, 1975



ANNEX 18
Table 2
INDONSIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEbRCH AND E;TENSION
Project Cost and Disbursement
Total Project Cost
Agency for
Falawija       Highland                  Information       Research and
Rice       CrOpS 2       Vegetables       Rubber    Certers           Development       TOTAL
------------------------------Constant 1975 US$ 000--------------------------------
Capital
Building, Service,
Utilities & Housing           4,439          -             1,144         4,020       2,463                 -           12,066
Research Equipment                249         -               282           705         -                   -            1,236
Furniture                          19         -                 7            15          40                 -               81
Farm Development                  363         -                148           96         -                   -              507
Field Equipment                   157         -                66           132         -                   -              355
Vehicles                          181         60              122           194         205                 30             792
Information Centers Equipment  -              -               -             -           697                                697
Library Supplies                  -           -               -             -           -                  250             250
Sub-Total                 5,408          60            1,669         5,162       3,405                280          15,9814
Technical Services
Research Specialists             240       1,080            1,080           780         840                420           4,440
Fellowships - Short term           48         54               42            78          60                 42             324
- Long tenm          496        496              390           708         810                352           3,252
In-service Training & Librar   -              -               -             -           -                  150             150
Sub-Total                     784       1,630            1,512         1,566       1,710                964           8,166
Iand Purchase                     -           -               -             180         -                   -              180
Establishment Cost              1,160      1,660            1,595           640         1495               675           6,225
BASE COST                      7,352       3,350            4,776         7,548      5,610               1,919          30,555
Physical Contingency
-  Buildings, Services,
Utilities & Housing
(20%)                        840          -               216            759       460                  -            2,275
-  All Other (5%)                 158        168              183           188         166                 96           _'@
Sub-Total - Constant $         8,350       3,518            5,175         8,495       6,236              2,015          33,780
Provision for Price
Increases - Current                                                                                                    12,805
TOTAL - Current $                                                                                                    4659
.1/ Breakdowns of the costs of the various components are given in the following tables:
Rice:                                       Annex 6, Tables 2, 3 and 4.
Palawija:                                   Annex 7, Tables 4, 5 and 6.
Highland vegetables:                        Annex 8, Tables 3, 4 and 5.
Rubber:                                     Annex 9, Table 3, 4 and 5.
Information Centers:                        Annex 10, Tables 1 to 4.
Agency for Research and Development:        Annex 18, Table 1.
2/  Capital input costs for Palawija crops is included with rice, as the two programs will operate from a joint center.
March 27, 1975



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Project Cost and Disbursement 1/
Expenditure Committment Schedule
(in Current US$ '000)
-----------------------------------Fiscal Year----------------------------
1975/76        1976/77       1977/78   - 1978/79         1979/80       1980/81     TOTAL
Capital Input
Building, Services, Utilities
and Housing                           650          10,671         3,388         2,567          _             _        17,276
Research Equipment                     138              314          872           192         103            96         1,715
Furniture                                9               21           57            12            7            6           112
Farm Development                        57              128          357            78           43           40           703
Field Equipment                         40               90          250            55           30           28           493
Vehicles                                90              200          558           122           67           62         1,099
Information Equipment                   78              176          491           108           59           55           967
Library Supplies                        28               63          176            39           21           20           347
Sub-Total                         1,090           11,663        6,149         3,173         330           307        22,712
Technical Services
Specialists and In-Service
Training                              324              935        1,403         1,886        1,319          844         6,711
Fellowships - Short & Long Term         22              676            417       1543         1.225          358         5.241
Sub-Total                           346            1,611        2,820         3,429        2,544        1,202        11,952
Land Purchase                            189               -             -            -            -             -           189
Establishment Cost                        -             1Z7           2.108        1.621        2,536        3.927        11.741
TOTAL                            1624,3                       11.077         8.293        5.4106                    46,59
1   (a)  Physical Contingencies of  20% on building,services, utilities and housing, and
5% on all other, have been applied to each line item
(b)  Price contingencies (Annex 18, Table 4) have been applied to each line item
Z/  GOI Fiscal Year, April 1 - March 31.                                                                                    (D
March 27, 1975                                                                                                                m



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Project Cost and Disbursement
Provision for Expected Price .ncreases
1975/76                     1976/77                   1977/78                    1978/79                      1979/80                    1980/81
Local      Foreign         Local    Foreign           Local    Foreign            Local    Foreign            Local      Foreign           Local    Foreign
Cost       Exchange        Cost       Exchange        Cost      Exchange          Cost      Exchange          Cost        Exchange         Cost      Exchange          TOTAL
--_-_______              --_---------------------------------------------- (Constant  1975 US$ 'DoD) --------------------------------------------------------------
Base Cost Including
Physical Contingencies:
Civil Works                           378           252         5,612        3,740         1,573        1,049          1,062          708             -            -               -          -            14,374
Equipment and other
capital inputs                     103            309           205          618           514       1,543             103          309            51           154             51         154            4,114
Technical Services                     38           264            168       1,189           267        1,886            298        2,107           204         1,436              89        629            8,575
Land Acquisition                      189            -             -           -             -            -              -             -              -            -               -          -                189
Establishment Costs                    -             -          1,129          -           1,376         -               966           -          1,281            -           1,785          -             6,537
Sub-Total                         708            825         7,114       5,547          3,730       4,478           2,429       3.124          1,536        1,590           1,925        783            33,789
Expected Price Increases:                 ---------------------------------------------------------------(Current US$ '000)---------------_____- _______-__-_-__-______-__-___-_-_____ -__-_
Civil Works & Land Acquisition
-  Annual 2;                           0Z            16%            1:%         14%            12%         12%             12%           12%
-  increase factor over 1975$
base cost                          1.0             1.08           1.075       1.24          1.22         1.40           1.37           1.57                                                              -
-  current $ increase                 0              20           421          898           346          420            393            404           _            _               _          _             2,902
Equipment and other Capital
Inputs
-  Annual %                          20%             11.5%          18%          9.8%          16%          8.5%           14%            8%          12%           7.5%           12%         7%
- increase factor over
1975$ base cost                   1.10            1.058         1.31         1.17          1.53         1.28           1.75           1.38        1.98          1.49           2.20        1.60         -
-  current $ increase                10              18             64         105           272          432              77           117           50           75              61         92             1,373
Technical Services &
Establishment Costs
-  Annual %                          20%             11.5%          18%         9.8%           16%          8.5%           14%           8%           12%           7.5%           12%         7%
- increase factor over
1975$ base cost                   1.10            1.058          1.31        1.17           1.53        1.28            1.75         1.38          1.98         1.49            2.20       1.60
-  current $ increase                23              21           402          202            871         528             948          801         1,455          704           2,198        377             8,5 30
Sub-Total                       33              59           887        1,205         1,489       1,380           1.418         1,322        1.505           779          2,259         469            12,805
TOTAL                  (   741             884          8,001       6>752          5,219       5,858           3,847        4,446         3,041        2,369           4,1S4      1,252            46,594
1,625                     14,753                      11,077                       8,293                     5,410                       5,436
ml



ANNEX 18
Table 5
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
ProJect Cost and Disbursement
Estimated Bank and GOI Disbursements
(Current US$'000)
------------------ GOI Fiscal Year/ --------------------
1975/76         76/77    77/78 .78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82    Total
GOI Expenditurei.
Civil Works23/            619   10,840    3,410   2,701        20       18    __       17,608
Materials & Equipment    350        792    2,203      484     263      245    --        4,337
Vehiclesv                  63       139      389       85      47       44    --          767
Technical Services        346    1,611    2,820   3,429   2,544   1,202    --          11,952
Land Acquisition &
Establishment Cost      189    1j,49    2,108   1,691   2.536               --       11,930
Total                   1,567   14,861   10,930   8,390   5,410   5,436    --          46,594
Bank Disbursementsi/~./
Civil Wiorks (40%)6/       81    2,090    3,353   1,244       262        8     2        7,040
Materials & Equipment
(90%)7/                 174      534    1,398      689      240     189    46        3,270
Vehicles (90%)7/           38       114      291      144      52       41    10          690
Technical Services
(88%)8/                304    1415    2,476   3,017   2.2-32   1,056    _          10,500
Total                     597    4,153    7,518   5,094   2,786.  1,294    58          21,500
1  Based on Annex 18, Table 3:  assumes GOI expends 100% of cost and IBED
disbursement of foreign exchange cost.
/ April 1 - March 31.
2 Assumes i) 66% design fees disbursed prior to bidding - remainder over period of construction.
ii) 50% construction cost expended during initial 1/3 of construction
period, 40% over remaining period, with 10% withheld until 6 months
after completion.
/ Automobiles (procured locally) transfered into civil works cost.
Foreign exchange    % shown against each item.
/ Assumes 6 months lag between GOI expenditure & IBRD disbursement.
*/ Assumes 3 months lag between GOI expenditure & IBRD disbursement.
/ Assumes no lag between GOI expenditure & IBRD disbursement.
March 28, 1975



ANNEX 18
Table 6
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EKT2NSION
ProJect Cost and Disbursement
Estimated Schedule of Disburseme4ts
(uS$'000)
IBRD Fiscal Year            Disbursement during          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                   the Quarter                 at end of.Quarter
F! 1976
1st                                   -01
2nd                                  3001'                           300
3rd                                   300                            600
4th                                   500                          1,100
FY 1977
1st                                  600                           1,700
2nd                                 1,500                          3,200
3rd                                 1,500                          4,700
hth                                 2,100                          6,800
F! 1978
1st                                 2,200                          9,000
2nd                                 1,700                         10,700
3rd                                 1,500                         12,200
4th                                 1,500                          13,700
FY 1979
1st                                 1,100                         14,800
2nd                                 1,400                          16,200
3rd                                 1,100                          17,300
4th                                   700                          18,000
FY 1980
1st                                   900                         18,900
2nd                                   600                          19,500
3rd                                   600                          20,100
4th                                   400                          20,500
FY 1981
1st                                  400                          20,900
2nd                                  300                          21,200
3rd                                  200                          21,400
4th                                   100                         21,500
1/ Includes $100,000 of retroactive financing for expenditures incurred
before loan effectiveness.
March 28, 1975



ANNEX 19
Page 1
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Economic Benefits and Justification
1.        When trying to estimate the economic contribution of agricultural
research and extension, the most convenient yardstick is the history of
similar experiences in other countries. A considerable number of studies
on the 1,'conomic contribution of research systems has now been undertaken 1/;
lesF -ctention, however, seems to have beein devoted to similar studies of
e;,.'ension systems.  The mnost salient features of these studies, as pre-
,sented below, are:  the high rates of return from research programs, the
necessity of a domestic agricultural research capability as a prerequisite
7'   to technology transfer from abroad; and the better profitability of basic
research as against applied research and extension.
2.        Two approaches have been generally followed when trying to quantify
the pay-off to investment in research: studies of specific commodity
research programs and studies based on aggregate production function analysis.
3.        Summary information for 8 studies of specific commodity research
programs are given in Table 1. The research costs were identified including
all research activities associated with the commodity. Most of the studies
claim a "conservative" position by including all reasonable research costs.
It is therefore all the more noticeable that all these studies show hign
rates of return, much above what is usual for investments in most economic
sectors.
4.        Aggregate productivity based studies use the same basic principle.
They first relate increases of production over a period of time to the
changes in the conventional input use; any production increase that cannot
be statistically explained by these changes in inputs is partially
attributed to the technology produced by research. Table 2 summarizes
the results of 12 of these studies; it can be seen that they confirm the
same pattern of high returns emerging from the first se2t of studies.
5.        For purpose of research policy, it is not enough to show that
research programs usually yield a high economic pay-off. It might in fact
be argued that the new technology brought on by domestic research programs
could have been obtained in a cheaper way by a simple transfer of technology
1/   A survey of these studies was made for the Consultative Group of Inter-
national Agricultural Research in October 1973 by Robert Evenson in
"Investment in Agricultural Research -- A Suirvey Paper." Much of this
annex refers to his survey.



ANNEX 19
Page   2
and research results from other countries.  Even though very few studies
exist on the link between research and transfer of teclnology, there is
some evidence that the extent to which a country benefits from the research
findings of other countries depends on its own research capability. A
study by Evenson and Kislev on wheat and maize research concludes that
countries without the capacity to produce internationally significant research
publications also lack the capacity to benefit from the research findings
of other countries and that extension and related programs on their own do
not facilitate transfer. Furthermore, these studies show that countries which
have indigenous research capability in wheat and maize production are able
to benefit from research done in similar regions, but not from research con-
ducted outside these regions. For example, research findings are not easily
transferred from temperate climate zones to tropical climate zones.
6.        A distinction may be shown between applied agricultural research
(covering such fields as plant breeding, agronomy, animal breeding) and
the more fundamental agricultural sciences (plant physiology, genetics,
pliytopathology). Even though this distinction sometimes is arbitrary, it
is interesting to note that studies based on this distinction seem to
indicate that investments in the more science-based research has the highest
marginal pay-off. Likewise, a comparison between investment in agricultural
research and in extension show a higher return for research than for extension
and other programs.
7.        To summarize, studies show that investment in agricultural research
has usually a high pay-off, especially in developing countries. Transfer
of technology may add to indigenous research but it cannot substitute for
it.
8.        In the case of this project, the benefits will be all the more
significant since research programs will be specially reinforced for farm
commodity groups particularly important for the agricultural sector. Table 3
gives prices, production and yields of tile main crops t,iat will come under
the research program; it also shows the yields achieved for the sanme crops
in other countries.  Rubber currently grown mostly for export; in fact this
crop accounts for about one quarter of the total value of exports, on the
average 1969-71. For rubber th-e Agricultural Sector Survey miission lias
foreseen an increase in acreage and production.  The current yields, however,
renain low when compared to those attained in West 'talaysia (Table 3).  There
anpears, therefore, to be considerable room for improver-ent and research
s,hould make major contribution towards increasing these yields. Currently,
Incdonesia is still dependent on imports for rice, the miain crop and staple
food.  The agricultural sector mission forecasts that, in spite of some
future extension of the paddy area and improvement of the yields, the country
is not likely to reach self-sufficiency for rice before 1980, even in the
most optimistic assumption. Since the scope for increasing the acreage
under paddy is rather limited (see Annex 129 Table 1), any boost in rice
production must be entrustecd to an increase in the yields. Table 3 of this



ANNEX 19
Page 3
annex shows that Indonesian yields for rice production lag behind the yields
obtained in other parts of the world. Even though such a comparison with
countries situated in different ecological zones must be handled carefully,
it also points to some potential for improvement. In this improvement,
research should play a major role. Similar results apply to palawija crops.
These are currently grown mainly for domestic consumption but Table 3 shows
that bv 1980 a significant part of their production could be exported. It
also shows that the current yields are much below those attained in other
countries. Regarding highland vegetables, data on acreage and production
are lacking; data on yields in particular, are totally absent. Comparisons
with the similar yields in other countries are therefore impossible. The
mission is confident, however, that, here too, research should make a signi-
ficant contribution to the improvement of yields and qualities.
9.        The four commodity groups to be supported by this project are
significant sources of income for small farmers. Rice cultivation, in
particular, provides most of the resources of many small farmers as well
as the staple diet of the poorest part of the population. By helping to
increase the productivity of these four commodity groups, the project will
have a direct effect on the well-being of the small farmers and poorest
classes in the country.
Attached: Tables 1 to 3
November 27, 1974



ANN EX 1 9
Table 1
INDCNESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ANDATENSICN
Summary of Direct Inference Commodity Stuudies
Ratio of Benefit
Time         Flow to           Internal
Stud&           Country    Commodity    Period       Adjusted Costs!   Rate of Return
1 . Griliches           U.S.A.      hybrid    1 940-1955           7               35-40
(1968)                          maize
2. Griliches            U.S.A.      hybrid    1940-1955            3.6              (20)
(1968)                         sorghum
3.  Peterson, W.        U.S.A.    poultry    1915-1960                             21-25
(1963)
4. Ardito-Barletta    Mexico       wheat       19433=1963          7.5              90
(1970)
5. Ardito-Barletta    Mexico       maize       194 3-1963          3.0              35
(1970)
6. Evenson, R.          S. Africa  sugarcane  1945-1962            2.47            >40
(1969)
7. Ayer, H.  (1970)   Brazil       cotton      1924-1967                            77+
8.  Hines, J. (1972)   Peru         maize      19541-1967                          35-4 ~/
50-55 3/
1/This is not a benefit cost ratio. It j# the ratio of the benefit flow as of the
ending period plus the accumulated benefits to that date converted to a flow at
the same interest rate (usually 6 percent) divided by the cumulated costs also
converted to a flow at the same interest rate.
2/Returns to corn research only.
3/Returns to corn research plus cultivation "package".
Source: Evenson. R., Investment in Agricultural Research--A Survey Paper for Consulta-
tive Group on International Agricultural Research. Yale University, October 1973.
June 7, 1974



ANNEX 19
Table 2
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Suvuary of Implicit TechnoloxY Generation Function Studies
Estimated Marginal,
Country (commodity)         Output  per            Internal
Study              and Time Period          Research dollar      Rate of Return
1. Griliches              USA  (aggregate)               $ 7                   --
(1964)                 1949-1959
2. Latimer  R.            USA  (aggregate)                --               significant
(1 9645 ~1949-1959
3. Evenson (1968)         USA  (aggregate)             $10-12                  47
1949-1959
4. Khaldi, N.             USA  (aggregate)              not calculated, but high
1949-i964                   returns implied
5. Tang, A.               Japan  (aggregate)                                   35
(1963)                 1880-1938
6. Ardito-Barletto        Nexico  (crops)                2.9                 45-93
(1970)                 1943-1963
7. Peterson (1966)        USA  (poultry)                 1.4                   21
8. Evenson (1969)         South Africa  (sugarcane)    15                      40
1945-1958
9. Evenson (1969)         Australia  (sugarcane)        35                     50
1945-1958
10. Evenson (1969)         India  (sugarcane)            40                     60
1945-1968
11.  Hayami & Rattan       International                 not directly calculated,
(1972)                1955-1965                   but high returns implied
12. Kislev & Evenson       International
(1973)                1955-1968
Applied Research
LDC's                                             42
DC's                                              21
Scientific Research Related
to Agriculture
LDC t                                             60
DC's                                              36
Souret:  Evenson, R., Investment in Agricultural Research--A Survey Ler for Consultative
Group on International Agricultural Research. Yale University, October 1973.
June 7, 1974



IADONESIA
AGgaCULTUARL RSESAH AND EXTENSION
Rubber, Rice and Palawija Crops: Comparison of Areas Planted. Productioa and Yields
Indonesia 1971                               1ronesia 198Cn' Yield (ton/ha)
Area    Production   Yield     Ex;port 2/    Area    Production   Yield      Mxport 2/        Indonesia             West Malaysia      USA  Europe  Australia
(OO0s ha) ('000e ton) (ton/ha) ('OOOs ten)  ('OOOs ha) ('000e ton) (ton/ha) ('000. ton) Estates  Smallholders  Hatates  Smalholders  1971   1971    1971
Rubber                1,972          810       -        789         2,200        1,000       -          900       .47         .33         .93        .56       -       -        -
Rice                  8,500       12,700      1.5      (600)        9,300       16,6o0      1.78        (350)      -          -           -          -         3.53   3.05     5.25
Maize ani Sorghum     2,687        2,138        .79     250         4,000        5,000      1.25      1,000        -          ,-                     -         5.52_/ 3.51/   2.46_/
Soybeans                630          422       .67        -         1,000        1,000      1.0         3003L/     _    -                 -          -        1.85   1.09      1.22
Groudinute             h13           299        .72       -           500          500      1.0          750/      -          --                     -         1.6
Sweet Potatoes          367        2,579      7.0         -           380        3,500      9.1          -         _          _                       -       11.6  13.6
1   Sector Survey Report forecasts (see Annex 2, Table 1). For 1980, the figares retained here for rice correspond to the "low" assumption of the Sector Survey.
/ Figares between brackets correspond to imports.
3/  Maize only.                                                                                                                                                                     H
4/  Product equivalent.
Source: World BaGaroup Agricultural Sector Surveys for Indonesia and Malaysia.
FAO Production Yearbook.
December 24, 1974



iBRD 11429
\    THAILAND           1                                 lo                                  5                              ISa                                                                1O0                               lIvO                                       JANAR
1 1oTOrd ACehS*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INDONESIA
PHILIPPINES                                          AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Project Research and Information Centers
South            China           Sea              BRUNEI                                                             ~NTOOIRROINETRAAI                                                                               SSNOLRIFL
N                                                                                                                                                                                             -   --              ..PRVINCIA     BOUNDARES         200       -A30071
ii                                                                                                                                                              IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WTERATONL IO0052INS00 S7 -
S INGAPOIRIE                                                                 7'         1I                          iMEOOp\\/.                                                ......\                      Sac;I f/c                    0      c   e a
kpapa,                               eputw-uz/  22                                 II
TERN  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    rIIlIi              ART           4~~~~~~T-   gpI                                                                                     SLAWESI/NE 
IIIATII  B,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAO,O                                                    [tjJlIi,
..T..R   -ALA7AN2I                                                                                                                                            jl*                                                           I
JOLN-'       YA--J                                                                                   a                [11        I         JI gIi-
fi RIAC.1                                                                                                                                                                                                              V A'11                                  II          mOTA-
2  TEWOTAOI700   J    0    v   a              5                  U1AR~~~~~SMB                        Kp.g             WO                                              10 29          30         ?0 69    10    ,
-- ENN                                        ir                                                                                          PRTR-120 HgM                                                                                                         1~                                 10



