FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1620-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
April 23, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit       =    Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.)
US$1.00             -    Rp 415
1 Rupiah            2    $0.0024
1 million Rupiah         $2,410
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$21.5 million to
help finance the Agricultural Research and Extension Project. The loan
would have a term of 25 years, including six years of grace, with interest
at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Indonesia: Development
Prospects and Needs" of April 15, 1975 (708-IND) described and analysed the
structure of production and incomes, the recent changes in the availability
of resources, and the medium and longer-term outlook for the Indonesian
economy. Country data are shown in Annex 1.
3.        In 1969, at the start of Indonesia's First Five-Year Plan, the
per capita income of the Indonesian population was probably no higher than
half a century ago. A majority of the population lived below a minimum
welfare standard, especially on Java. Most were dependent exclusively or
primarily on agriculture, where farms were generally very small. Under-
employment was widespread. While the inflation of the mid-1960's had been
overcome, infrastructure was still in very poor condition.
4.        The Government's efforts during the First Five-Year Plan period
(April 1, 1969 - March 31, 1974) were successful in putting the economy on
the road towards development. Most physical objectives were achieved or
nearly so, and there was very substantial rehabilitation of run-down infras-
tructure and government enterprises in agriculture and manufacturing. In-
vestments increased at a very fast rate, rising from 9 to 19 percent of GNP.
While 57 percent of Government development expenditures were financed from
abroad, the reliance on foreign financing was much smaller than the level
of nearly 80 percent foreseen in the Plan. Real GDP increased at an annual
rate of over 7 percent. GNP per capita in current prices reached about $120
in 1973. The Government instituted programs for the labor-intensive rehab-
ilitation of infrastructure and other programs which created substantial
incomes and employment. In all, however, given the annual increase in the
labor force of about one million, one cannot be confident that the employ-
ment situation improved during the First Plan period, and from available
information it is difficult to judge whether a significant part of the
poorest section of the population participated in the gains of development.
5.        The Second Five-Year Plan (April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1979)
builds on the achievements of the First Plan. While the First Plan dealt
mainly with the urgent needs for stabilization and rehabilitation under



- 2 -
conditions of great scarcity of resources, progress has been such that the
Second Plan can give much more weight to such problems as employment,
equitable distribution, regional growth, and education. The Plan identi-
fies a number of specific low-income target groups and, in general, adopts
an employment oriented development strategy. It aims at a continued growth
in investments, needed both because capital intensity will tend to increase
as the rehabilitation phase draws to an end, and because more socially-
oriented investments will be made. Overall, the Plan expects GDP to grow
at 7.5 percent per annum.
6.        Over the decade 1961-71, Indonesia's population grew by 2.1
percent a year. However, as a result of changes in the age distribution and
declining mortality, the current growth rate is estimated at 2.5 percent.
Even under the most optimistic assumptions with regard to fertility decline,
the growth rate would only come down gradually, and the population would
nearly double by the end of the century. While Indonesia still has substan-
tial unutilised land reserves in the outer islands, 1/ these are limited
in relation to the expected population increase, and a further large increase
in population pressures - already severe on the inner islands 2/ - must be
expected. Since 1969, the Government has been operating and gradually
extending a family planning program. The number of acceptors has been
increasing rapidly. The Second Five-Year Plan foresees a much more compre-
hensive attack on the population problem.
7.        During the rest of the 'seventies,' average annual additions to
the labor force are estimated at 1.2 million, increasing to more than 1.4
million in the years 1980-85. In addition, substantial underemployment
exists, and there is the risk that even relatively simple technological
improvements may eliminate existing employment. The Second Plan's projec-
tions show that employment growth would almost keep up with the growth in
the labor force, but the employment thrust of the Plan needs to be further
strengthened if an appreciable increase in real labor earnings - and a wider
spread of the benefits of development - is to be attained.
8.        A further acceleration in Indonesia's development efforts should
be possible, given the recent favorable developments in its exports, and
especially the large increase in the price of oil. Between 1972/73 3/ and
1975/76, the net oil contribution to the balance of payments as well as to
the Government budget is expected to increase by roughly $2.5 billion, or
$20 per capita. In nominal terms, this is equivalent to about 22 percent of
the gross national income in 1972/73. In terms of real goods and services
available to Indonesia, the gain is however much smaller. The main off-
setting factor is the large increase in import prices over the three years.
1/   All islands except Java, Madura and Bali.
2/   Java, Madura and Bali.
3/   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1972 - March 31, 1973.



-3-
Taking this into account, only 30 percent of the original gain remains; in
1972/73 prices, the net gain is $6 per capita or $750 million for the
economy as a whole, equivalent to 6.5 percent of the 1972/73 GNP.
9.        In terms of the budget, part of the increase in oil'revenues has
been used to protect the domestic consumer and the economy against the wide
price fluctuations on international markets through subsidies on major
imported commodities (rice, fertilizer, wheat, sugar). The prices of these
commodities have risen faster than those of imports in general. Net of
current subsidies, the gains in the 1975/76 budget (as compared to 1972/73)
amount to only about 4.5 percent of the current (non-oil) GNP. Of this
amount, more than half ($700 million in current prices), is being channeled
toward public investments. The remainder is being used for current expend-
itures and for payments due for the subsidies of the preceding year.
10.       From September 1972 to March 1974, the Indonesian economy was
under severe inflationary pressure, initially because of a bad harvest in
the Fall of 1972, and subsequently as a result of the worldwide increase in
commodity prices and the boom conditions in Indonesia itself. By early
1974, the annual rate of inflation had reached nearly 50 percent. The
Government took a number of measures to remedy the situation in April 1974.
At approximately the same time, international prices of most commodities
started to fall. Since then, the annual rate of inflation in Indonesia
has declined to about 15 percent and the Government has relaxed some of
the earlier measures.
11.       Recently, Indonesia's balance of payments and budgetary position
have been affected by the inability of PERTAMINA - Indonesia's petroleum
company - to meet all its financial obligations. During 1974/75 PERTAMINA,
which had undertaken a large and diversified investment program for most of
which it had not arranged medium-or long-term financing, faced serious
liquidity problems. It began to withhold the legally obligatory pass-through
to the Government of part of the revenues received from the foreign companies,
as well as taxes due on its own net income. In addition, PERTAMINA failed
to meet payments due on certain of its short-term foreign borrowings and
some of its other obligations and it faced the prospect of large similar
obligations coming due in 1975/76 which it was not likely to be able to meet.
Decisive corrective action was taken early in March 1975.   The Government
resolved to assist PERTAMINA so as to enable it to meet the outstanding debt
service obligations. Furthermore, in order to assure orderly and coordinated
borr'owing in the international market, PERTAMINA and all other state enter-
prises were instructed to refrain from independent borrowing abroad, and
Bank Indonesia was made responsible for raising from international commer-
cial sources the needed funds on their behalf. A systematic review of
PERTAMINA's investment plans is currently being undertaken with a view to
alteration, reduction and other steps where necessary. The result are likely
to have a favorable bearing on the pattern of investment in the years imme-
diately ahead and to result in closer coordination of major investment acti-
vities undertaken by state enterprises. However, the withholding by PERTAMINA



- 4 -
of part of the payments due on account of oil company profits to pay foreign
obligations resulted in levels of foreign exchange reserves at the end of
1974/75 of less than $1 billion or about 2.5 months of imports. For 1975/76,
the Government expects to receive the normal oil payments which are made by
and through PERTAMINA. It also expects a modest increase in foreign exchange
reserves during that year.
12.       Indonesia has a substantial potential for further productive
investment, employment and income growth. In agriculture, a vigorous pur-
suit of on-going programs in irrigation, development of new varieties and
technical services, provision of credit and current inputs, etc., promises
to yield high returns. In addition, development of new areas for food or
tree crops - partly in conjunction with a rapidly growing transmigration
program - has high priority. If production, employment and incomes grow
rapidly, demand for agricultural products - especially the high-value ones -
will also accelerate, and there will be a need to improve marketing and
transport facilities. The industrial potential is good, both for modern
capital-intensive natural resource-based activities and for more labor-
intensive, partly export-oriented industries. Industrial activity needs
to be widely spread; this has implications for the choice and location of
future infrastructure projects. In addition, there is a serious backlog
of economic infrastructure requirements in many areas, and a need to improve
social infrastructure over wide areas of the country.
13.       With the increase in resources which have become available since
the Second Plan was prepared, the Government is now clearly set on a course
of accelerated growth in investment, employment and incomes to realize
Indonesia's potentials and provide additional welfare for the broad masses
of the people. With a determined effort to mobilize additional resources,
and a judicious use of them - and assuming an international economy which is
reasonably favorable to Indonesia - very significant progress can be made
in this direction. One important element in this strategy will be to increase
employment at such a rate that the labor market would tighten significantly.
This in turn would create self-reinforcing tendencies, as incomes and demand
rise throughout the economy. Thus, the wide spread of the gains of development
is not only a prime objective, but also a vital tool in the overall strategy.
Improvement in the labor market situation would, however, depend critically
on the direct creation of substantial work opportunities by the Government
in such activities as transmigration, and urban and rural public works.
14.       The resources needed to implement an accelerated investment,
employment and income growth strategy are substantial. Assuming only a
modest overall increase in the capital intensity of the investment program,
and an efficient use of resources, investments would have to double between
1975 and 1980 (for an annual growth rate of 15 percent). Investment would
increase from 23 percent of non-oil national income in 1975 to 29 percent
in 1980 which, in current prices, implies an increase from $3 billion in
1973 to $6.5 billion in 1975 and nearly $20 billion in 1980.



15.       With regard to the foreign exchange requirements for such an
investment program it appears that, assuming relatively favorable develop-
ments in the export sector (including oil), commitments of foreign funds
to the extent of about $14 billion over the six-year period 1975-1980 will
be necessary; for the first four years the necessary commitments are esti-
mated at $2 billion per annum. In the interest of keeping the debt service
reasonable, providing for the contingency of a lower oil income, and leaving
room for future borrowing to sustain import growth in the 1980's when
export prospects look less favorable, it will be necessary to borrow at
least three-fourths of the foreign funds on concessional or semi-concessional
terms.  Under such a borrowing program, and assuming increased borrowing
after 1980, the debt service would reach 10 percent in 1980 and about 18
percent in the late 1980's. With more pessimistic assumptions about future
prices and exports of oil, and only a partial adjustment of imports, the
debt service ratio could rise to 15 percent in 1980 and 25 percent in the
late 1980's. Even with foreign borrowing of $14 billion over the next
six years, the net transfer from abroad would drop from 6.6 percent of the
non-oil national income in 1973 to 2.5 percent in 1975, 2 percent in 1980
and 1.5 percent in 1985. The Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia (IGGI)
will meet in May 1975 to consider Indonesia's long-term foreign assistance
requirements.
16.       With the foreign inflows estimated above the domestic savings
rate would have to be raised from an estimated 21 percent of the non-oil
national income in 1975 to over 27 percent in 1980. While this would be
difficult, the Government appears fully committed to it. One important
source of additional savings would be the gradual reduction of subsidies,
which will become easier to achieve if prices of imported commodities con-
tinue to fall. It would also be desirable to increase some taxes for
reasons of equity.
17.       The Government will also have to take steps to strengthen its
capacity to implement its expanding and complex development program, which
involves large numbers of people over vast geographical areas. To achieve
the objectives, the administrative apparatus and procedures of the Government
may have to be adapted in important ways. In this context, it appears that
the tendencies toward decentralization of decision making and delegation of
responsibility need to be strengthened. Much attention needs to'be given
to staff requirements of Government agencies, and a massive training effort
mounted to ensure the availability of adequate staff to carry out the
various programs. To the extent that these training and staffing efforts
would take time, temporary use of additional expatriate expertise may have
to be considered if the development objectives are to be attained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       As indicated in Part I, Indonesia will continue to need substan-
tial external financial and technical assistance to expand and improve



- 6 -
infrastructure and to expand production capabilities and employment oppor-
tunities in agriculture, minerals, forestry and manufacturing. With the
continued growth of the economy, the Government will also be able to devote
increasing attention to ensuring that the benefits of development are dis-
tributed widely. Programs to increase the productivity of smallholder
farmers and to resettle farmers from Java on presently unutilized areas in
the outer islands, the expansion of labor-intensive industry in Java, the
development of new industrial activities in Java and the outer islands,
family planning, water supply, education, health and other social programs
will therefore have an important place in the development strategy during
the period of the Second Plan. The work of both the Bank's headquarters
and Resident Staff has been oriented toward these objectives.
19.       To date, Indonesia has received 37 IDA credits amounting to $561.8
million and six Bank loans amounting to $317.5 million. IFC investments
total $58.4 million. Future lending to Indonesia is expected to be in the
form of Bank loans and IFC investments. The Bank Group accounts for less
than 4 percent of Indonesia's total outstanding public debt at the end of
1973. By 1978 it is expected to account for less than 11 percent of total
outstanding debt and less than 5 percent of Indonesia's annual debt service
obligations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1975, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
20.       In accordance with the priorities of Indonesia's Five-Year Plans,
about one-third of Bank Group lending to date has been for agriculture. IDA
has extended four credits to help rehabilitate Government agricultural es-
tates, producing principally rubber, oil palm and tea, six to assist rehabil-
itation and expansion of irrigation systems serving millions of smallholders
on Java, two for fisheries and one each for improved seeds multiplication,
beef cattle development, smallholder rubber development, sugar industry
rehabilitation and smallholder tea development. Industry is of growing
importance to the Indonesian economy and the Bank Group has assisted in six
projects in this sector: two to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production capac-
ity, two for BAPINDO and one for the Private Development Finance Company of
Indonesia (PDFCI) to help these development finance companies expand their
industrial lending and one for Indonesia's first industrial estate project.
Other sectors to'which loans and credits have been extended are power,
transportation, telecommunications, education, population, urban housing
improvement and water supply. In addition, four credits have been made to
assist the Government in preparing and formulating appropriate development
programs and projects.
21.       The first IDA credit to Indonesia was made in 1968, and almost
half of all loans and credits have been made since June 1972. Bank lending
to Indonesia began only in June 1974. The program has increased rapidly



-7-
from a relatively small base, and consequently the undisbursed portion of
loans and credits is substantial. Moreover, several credits have financed
projects planned for execution over extended periods. Many, in addition,
have been associated with institutional reforms involving, inter alia, the
creation and reorganization of program and project authorities, drafting of
new charters and the enactment of new legislation, all of which has taken
time. Thus, a number of projects have experienced delays in the initial
stages of implementation, and some are inherently slow disbursing. However,
the performance of most project agencies has improved continuously as or-
ganizational improvements have begun to take effect and Indonesian staff
have become more experienced in project execution. Despite the improved
administrative capabilities, most development projects, including those
financed by the Bank Group, have been adversely affected by cumbersome
budgetary, procurement and customs clearance procedures.   The Indonesian
authorities recognize the need to streamline procedures and are consider-
ing steps necessary to accomplish this. As a first step, the Government
has requested and we have arranged for assistance under the Fourth Tech-
nical Assistance Credit (Credit 451-IND) to establish an effective control
system in the National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS) to monitor the
progress of development projects. Additional measures to improve project
administration are now under consideration by the Government.
22.       The future Bank lending program will continue to support the
Government's efforts to speed up economic growth and to ensure that the
benefits of development are distributed widely. Specifically, it will
give high priority to agriculture, concentrating on broad programs of
support to increase production of rice and other crops on the inner islands
and to expand resettlement and agricultural production on the less populated
outer islands. Emphasis will also be given to socially-oriented projects
in the fields of population and nutrition, education and urban development.
The Bank program will also continue to provide support for the Government
in developing the additional industrial capacity and infrastructure which
are essential to economic growth. Projects for fertilizer distribution,
power, natural resource surveying and mapping, transmigration and rural
development, education, marine transport and highways have been appraised
and are expected to be ready for presentation in FY1975 or the first half
of FY1976.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Agriculture is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy, accounting
for 40 percent of GNP, 60 percent of total employment and almost all of
non-oil exports. The major food crops are rice, maize, cassava, sweet
potatoes, soybeans and groundnuts, which provide 85 percent of the total
calorie and 80 percent of the total protein intake of the population. Rice
accounts for nearly one-third of the total value of agricultural production
and 12 percent of GNP. Indonesia also produces substantial quantities of
sugar, coconut and tea for domestic consumption and rubber and palm oil
for export.



- 8 -
24.       The Government has given the highest priority to agriculture and
total production has grown at a rate of about 4 percent per annum during
the last five years. Particular attention has been given to increasing the
production of rice through rehabilitation and construction of irrigation
systems, price support and the expansion of the Bimas program, which provides
production credit, inputs distribution and extension services primarily to
rice producers. Attention has also been given to increasing the production
of rubber, palm oil, sugar and tea through rehabilitation and expansion of
existing estate and also smallholder production. Production of palawija
crops (maize, sorghum, soybean, cassava and other non-rice field crops) has
until recently received lower priority and the Government has now decided to
establish a new Bimas program to encourage the production of some of these
products. In general, the yields obtained from all crops are still very
low by international standards, and substantial increases could be brought
about through the expanded use of improved varieties of seeds and planting
material, fertilizer and improved agricultural practices.
25.       Improved research and extension are of central importance to
increasing agricultural production in Indonesia. While the Government has
begun to improve the research capability of individual institutions, in
some cases with assistance from foreign donors, the Indonesian research
effort needs to be substantially strengthened. In the first place, overall
expenditures for agricultural research have been low in comparison with
other countries at a similar stage of development. The total budget of
$6.1 million provided in the Indonesian fiscal year 1973/74 to the Ministry
of Agriculture for research represents only about 0.01 percent of the total
value of agricultural production for the year. This compares with a
worldwide average of 0.9 percent and an average for developing countries
of 0.3 percent. Secondly, the research effort has lacked overall coordina-
tion. Until recently most agricultural research has been carried out by
15 institutions under the control of five separate directorates within the
Ministry of Agriculture and by three estate supported institutes indirectly
controlled by the Director General for Estate Crops. A small amount of
research has also been undertaken by the universities, the Indonesian
Institute of Science (LIPI) and private growers. Seventeen foreign donors
have provided assistance to 16 different research organizations. This dis-
persion of the research effort has made it difficult for the Government to
provide overall coordination, establish research priorities and ensure con-
sistent standards of employment for research personnel in the different
research centers. Finally, low salaries and operating budgets and minimal
provision for staff training and career opportunities have made it difficult
to attract a sufficient number of highly qualified, full-time research
personnel.
26.       The agriculture extension services in Indonesia consist of some
13,000 extension personnel working at the national, provincial, district
and sub-district levels. While the extension services have had some success
in transferring knowledge to farmers, particularly under the Bimas program,
the extension effort in Indonesia has suffered from problems similar to
those experienced in the research program. Each of the five directorates



-9-
in the Ministry of Agriculture have had separate extension services, which
has led to problems of coordination and duplication of effort. The overall
level of training of the extension staff has been low as about half have had
only elementary school education. Until recently, no university trained
extension workers served at the district or sub-district level, or at the
200 extension centers located throughout the country. The salary level of
the extension workers is low, which has made it difficult to attract more
qualified staff and to retain the full-time services of existing staff.
Moreover, extension workers have often not been provided with adequate
means of transportation and the audio-visual and other material necessary
for training farmers.
27.       The Government has recognized the need to improve the quality of
agricultural research and extension and has taken significant steps in this
direction. In 1969, the Government, with assistance from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), created an agricultural
research survey team to review the existing research program and to make
recommendations for its improvement. After the completion of this study,
the Government requested the Bank Group to help strengthen the research
program and to develop a project suitable for Bank Group financing. Bank
Group missions visited Indonesia in 1972 and 1973. In 1973, the Government
appointed a new cabinet level Minister of State for Research with responsi-
bility for coordinating the Government's overall research effort and bringing
about organizational and financial reform in the research programs of various
ministries. On August 26, 1974, two Presidential decrees were signed which
authorized organizational reform for all Government ministries. These
decrees, inter alia, provided for the establishment in the Ministry of
Agriculture of an Agency for Research and Development (ARD) and for the
expansion of an existing agency into a new Agency for Education, Training
and Extension (AETE). These Presidential and supporting Ministerial decrees
provide for the establishment of a Governing Board, chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture, which would provide overall policy guidance for the Govern-
ment's agricultural research program. An Executive Board, chaired by the
Head of ARD, would have administrative responsibility for all Government
funded agricultural research within the Ministry of Agriculture. On the
extension side, the Director of AETE has been given responsibility for all
national agricultural extension programs. This reorganization thus provides
the basis for the development of integrated and coordinated research and
extension programs.
28.       The Government is also taking steps to improve the salaries and
employment conditions of research staff. At the time of the general increase
in civil service salaries in April 1974, the Government provided larger
increases for specialized personnel including research scientists. Additional
general increases in the salaries of all civil servants introduced in
January 1975, together with supplemental "honoraria" for research workers
introduced on April 1, 1975, have further reduced the gap between the
conditions of service of Government research personnel and those of similar
personnel in the private sector. During negotiations of the proposed loan,
it was agreed with the Government that the ARD and the AETE would be staffed



- 10 -
with competent and experienced personnel and that the Government would
maintain conditions of employment which are satisfactory to attract competent
staff at ARD headquarters and at the national research centers and regional
research stations to be assisted under the project (Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement).
29.       Finally, some training has been provided to research and exten-
sion staff under foreign assistance programs. The Bank Group has in a number
of projects provided assistance for research in the fields of rubber, rice,
tea and sugar. The Bank Group has also assisted in the training of extension
personnel under the Second Education Project (Credit 288-IND), which provides
for the expansion of in-service agriculture training centers and the rehabil-
itation and construction of agriculture secondary schools. Support for
extension has also been provided under the most recent Bank Group financed
irrigation projects (Credit 514-IND and Loan No. 1100-IND). The above steps
provide a much improved framework for the Bank project now proposed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
30.       The project is based on the findings of reconnaissance, identi-
fication and preparation missions which visited Indonesia in 1972 and 1973.
The project was appraised in March 1974 and a follow-up mission visited
Indonesia in September 1974 to discuss progress on the administrative reor-
ganization which was necessary for the proposed project. Negotiations were
held in Washington in March 1975. The Government's negotiating team was led
by Mr. Sadikin, Head of ARD. An appraisal report is being circulated to
the Executive Directors separately and a loan and project summary is
contained in Annex III.
Project Description
31.       The project, which is designed to assist in the development of
more effective agriculture research and extension in Indonesia, would
support the development of production-oriented research programs for rice,
palawija crops (mainly maize, sorghum, soybean and cassava), highland
vegetables (mainly potato, tomato, European cabbage and beans) and rubber.
It includes the establishment of one national and nine regional information
centers which would prepare audio-visual and other materials necessary for
the extension service to transmit research information to farmers. The pro-
ject would provide for the construction and equipping of the research and
information centers, foreign and local training of Indonesian personnel and
technical assistance for ARD headquarters and the research and information
programs to be assisted under the project.
32.       The four commodity research programs to be supported under the
project were chosen because of their importance to the Indonesian economy



and to the incomes of small farmers, the potential for increasing produc-
tivity and the need for assistance additional to that being provided by
other foreign donors. Rice is the main staple food crop and increased pro-
duction is of critical importance to the well-being of millions of small-
holder farmers, particularly on the densely populated inner islands where
production increases are dependent on raising the presently low yields
(2.0 ton/ha) 1/. Palawija crops, which presently account for about 10
percent of the total value of agricultural production, are grown mainly
by smallholders on the inner islands, but there is also potential for in-
creasing production on the outer islands. These crops, which are an impor-
tant source of calories and protein, have been largely neglected until re-
cently and there is substantial scope for improving their yields. Fruits
and vegetables presently account for about 15 percent of the total value
of agricultural production. There is an important potential for increasing
vegetable production, particularly in the most highly commercialized part of
the sector in the highland area of Java and in two or three secondary centers
in Sumatra. Smallholder farmers in these areas have responded rapidly to the
introduction of new varieties and farming techniques, and there is consequently
a good possibility of subtantially increasing production of these high value
crops through improved research and extension. Rubber accounts for more
than half of total agricultural exports. Two-thirds of total output is
produced by smallholders and the remainder by estates. The average yield
from smallholder rubber in Indonesia is only 0.33 ton/ha compared to 0.56
ton/ha in Malaysia.
33.       Research under these four commodity programs would concentrate on
developing high-yielding, disease resistent varieties of seeds and planting
materials suitable to Indonesian conditions, more appropriate production
systems and agricultural practices and improved processing and storage
methods. It would also give careful consideration to the economic and
social consequences of introducing new technologies.
34.       Under the project, national centers for each of the commodity
research programs would be constructed which after completion would become
the national headquarters for all Government-funded research in their
respective commodity fields (Section 3.06 (d) of the Loan Agreement). The
project would provide at each center office buildings, improved laboratory
and field facilities and equipment, staff housing and supporting social
amenities, vehicles, technical assistance and staff training. Some assist-
ance would also be provided to up-grade the regional research stations
needed for these commodity programs. The rice and palawija program would
be based at the existing research station at Sukamandi, West Java, which
would be expanded to become the headquarters for research for these two
commodity groups. Social facilities at Sukamandi are inadequate and parti-
cular attention would.therefore be given to upgrading the schools, health
centers and recreational facilities to ensure that the center can attract
and retain the necessary, highly trained staff. Most of the technical
1/   This compares with 2.5 ton/ha in Malaysia and 5.0 ton/ha in Australia.



- 12 -
assistance required for the rice program is already being financed by the
Bank under the Seeds Project (Credit 246-IND). The highland vegetables
program would be based at the existing station at Margahayu near Bandung,
West Java, which would be expanded to become the national center for high-
land vegetables research. Two regional stations would also be upgraded.
For rubber, a new national research center would be developed at the Sungei
Putih estate in North Sumatra. Existing rubber research activities,
presently being conducted at less favorable sites at Bogor, West Java and
Medan, North Sumatra, would gradually be transferred to Sungei Putih. The
project also provides for the expansion of a regional station for rubber
at Sembawa, South Sumatra.
35.       The agricultural information centers to be constructed under the
project would prepare and distribute audio-visual and other materials for
use by extension workers in training farmers. Such materials would include
radio scripts and tapes, films and slides, and posters, pamphlets and
relevant news stories printed in a wide variety of local dialects. The
project would provide at each center office and other buildings, staff
housing, audio-visual and other equipment, vehicles, technical assistance
and staff training. The National Information Center (NIC) would be located
near Bogor close to existing in-service training facilities and Indonesia's
leading agricultural university. The nine regional information centers
would be constructed in the provinces and would be situated near Ministry
of Agriculture training, education or research centers in order to help
ensure close links between the various programs. Direct support for agri-
cultrual extension services has been provided under Credits 288-IND and
514-IND and Loan 1100-IND. An agriculture extension project is currently
under preparation which would supplement and expand the support already
being provided to help strengthen the extension services.
36.       The project also provides fellowships for training 170 Indonesians
at both foreign and domestic institutions. Long-term fellowships would be
provided for up to four years for M. Sc and Ph. D. studies and short-term
fellowships of about six months would be provided for tours and residence
in foreign universities and research and extension institutions. Recipients
of fellowships would, upon completion of their study, serve in the ARD or
AETE for a period at least equivalent to the duration of their fellowship
(Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement). The technical assistance component
of the project would provide for the services of internationally-recruited
research, extension information, financial management and procurement experts
to serve for periods varying from a few weeks to five years for a total of
76.5 man years. These experts would assist in the development of agricul-
tural research and information programs until Indonesians had been trained
under the project to take over these responsibilities. As the fellowship
and technical assistance programs are large, the Government would engage by
December 31, 1975 an outside organization or organizations which would assist
in the recruitment of the international experts required for the technical
assistance program and in the administration of the fellowship program (Section
3.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
Organization
37.       The Director of ARD has responsibility for the development of
uniform policies for all Government-funded agricultural research in the
Ministry of Agriculture, approval of annual research programs, allocation
of research budget funds, coordination of assistance from foreign donors
and the establishment of uniform conditions of employment designed to attract
and retain high caliber staff. The Director of the ARD would be responsible
for the implementation of the research components of the proposed project.
He would be assisted by an internationally-recruited research advisor, who
would be appointed by December 31, 1975 (Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement). A project implementation unit has been established within the
ARD secretariat, which would be responsible for supervising the civil works,
equipment procurement, technical assistance and training for the research
centers to be constructed under the project. The staff of this unit would,
with the assistance of architectural, construction management and cost
control consultants acceptable to the Bank, prepare development plans for
each center which would be approved by the Bank prior to tendering of the
civil works contracts (paragraph C 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 of the Loan
Agreement).
38.       Each of the four research programs supported by the Bank would be
headed by a senior Indonesian research program director, who would be assisted
by a internationally-recruited senior research advisor and by other research
specialists for shorter periods. The staff for these programs would be drawn
from existing research institutes and from recent university graduates. The
project would provide fellowships to train research program staff and internal
staff training programs would also be arranged by the Directors of the re-
search programs, with assistance from their advisors. To help ensure an
effective link between research and extension, two commodity subject matter
specialists at each research center would be responsible for preparing "pro-
duction packages" of agricultural practices and for transmitting research re-
sults to AETE for use in extension work. During the initial years of the
project, program directors and their staff would work at existing research
institutes. After the completion of the centers to be constructed under the
project, they would move to the new national headquarters for their respective
commodity research programs (Supplemental Letter on "National Program Direc-
tors").
39.       It is envisaged that the new research centers will maintain close
relations with international research centers such as International Rice
Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines, Centro Internacional de
Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (CIMMYT) in Mexico for maize, International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in India for
sorghum, Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical- (CIAT) in Colombia
and the International Development Research Center (IDRC) in Canada for
cassava, the Asia Vegetable Research and Development Center (AVRDC) in
Taiwan for soybean, tomato and potato, and Centro Internacional de la Papa
(CIP) in Peru for potato. These international centers should be able to
assist the Indonesian centers by providing training, research information
and planting materials.



- 14 -
40.       The AETE would be responsible for the national information program.
The AETE also controls the National Institute for Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension and the NIC would be an important component of this
institute. The regional information centers would be administered through
the bureau of extension of AETE. The project implementation unit of the
AETE, which was set up to implement the Second Education Project (Credit
288-IND), would be responsible for supervising the civil works construction
and equipment procurement for the project information centers. The project
would provide for the services of an agricultural information advisor to
assist NIC and for the services of three advisors to assist the regional
information centers. In order to help upgrade the capability of the Indo-
nesian extension information staff, 30 long-term and ten short-term fellow-
ships would be provided and staff training programs would be set up.
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $46.6 million.    The
agricultural research component represents about 80 percent of total project
cost and the information component about 20 percent. The capital costs
account for 50 percent of total project costs, technical services 25 per-
cent and land acquisition and incremental establishment costs about 25
percent.
42.        The proposed Bank loan of $21.5 million would finance the foreign
exchange component, or slightly less than one-half of the total project cost.
The loan includes provision for retroactive financing of up to $100,000 for
the costs of the services of consultants incurred prior to loan signing. The
loan would have a repayment term of 25 years, including six years of grace.
The balance of project costs would be met by the Government in the form of
budgetary contributions. Cost estimates include physical contingencies of 20
percent for civil works to allow for possible increases in the scope of work
required for the research and information centers and related social ameni-
ties. A physical contingency of 5 percent was allowed for all other compo-
nents of the project, including technical assistance. Price contingencies,
which amount to 27 percent of total project costs, are based on the expected
rates of international inflation for equipment and other imported items
and the projected rate of local inflation for civil works and locally pro-
duced items. Total contingencies amount to about 34 percent of total project
cost.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       Civil works contracts in excess of $100,000 for the rice and
palawija research center ($4.4 million) and the rubber research center
($4.0 million) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Contracts for the construction of the highland vegetable center
($1.1 million) and the ten information centers which are small and scat-
tered (totaling $2.5 million) and contracts of less than $100,000 for the



- 15 -
rice and palawija and rubber centers would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertized locally in accordance with' Government procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. For purposes of bid comparison for civil
works contracts, qualified local contractors would receive a preference of
7-1/2 percent. Research and information equipment ($1.9 million) is of a
highly specialized character and local after sales service is of critical
importance. The contracts for library equipment and furniture would be
small ($0.3 million) and unsuitable for international competitive bidding.
Contracts for equipment and furniture would therefore be'awarded on the
basis of competitive procurement procedures involving, inter alia, the
solicitation of at least three price quotations. Contracts for agricul-
tural vehicles ($0.5 million) in excess of US$50,000 equivalent would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Smaller vehicle
contracts ($0.3 million) would be awarded on the basis of competitive pro-
curement procedures involving the solicitation of at least three price
quotations. The Government would recruit technical services ($8.2 million)
with the assistance of one or more consultancy organizations approved by
the Bank (see para 37 of this report).
44.       For equipment, materials and furniture, the loan would be disbursed
for 100 percent of the cost of the CIF value of directly imported equipment,
95 percent of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured locally and
65 percent of imported equipment procured locally. For vehicles, it would
be disbursed for 100 percent of the CIF value of imported vehicles and 40
percent of the cost of vehicles procured locally. The loan would also be
disbursed to meet 40 percent of the cost of civil works and 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance and fellowships.
Project Benefits
45.        As a part of the preparation of this project, very signifcant
steps have been taken to strengthen the overall organization and staffing
for agricultural research and extension in Indonesia. The project is ex-
pected to help consolidate these improvements through the provision of
necessary physical facilities, technical assistance and staff training to
be provided to the ARD and the research and information centers included
in the project.
46.       The research programs included in the project would be produc-
tion-oriented and directed specifically to the introduction and adaptation
of modern technology tested and proven in countries with ecological condi-
tions similar to those in Indonesia. Recent evidence from a number of
other countries has shown that development of domestic research capabili-
ties is essential to adapt the results of international research to local
conditions. Agricultural yields are currently very low in Indonesia and
the research programs included in the project are therefore expected to
lead to substantial increases in production of commodities of major
importance to the Indonesian economy. As this research is for crops
produced primarily by smallholder farmers, the benefits from improved var-
ieties of planting materials and farming systems would help raise the living
standards of a broad spectrum of the Indonesian agricultural population.



- 16 -
Quantification of benefits is difficult in view of the uncertainties inherent
in research. Nevertheless, experience has demonstrated that properly executed
research can give very satisfactory, even spectacular, rates of return.
Leaving aside the possibilities for revolutionary discoveries, there are
strong grounds for believing that, by concentrating available research resources
on a few important commodities, and programming the investigations towards
the successful adaptation in Indonesia of discoveries that have proved success-
ful in other countries, a favorable rate of return will be assured.
47.       Improved extension services are, of course, essential to ensure
that the results of research are made available to farmers. The project
would help improve Indonesian extension services through the development
of a closer relationship between research and extension efforts, the formation
of "production packages" of new farming practices which can readily be
transmitted to farmers and the creation of an effective network of agri-
cultural information centers to provide the audio visual and other materals
necessary for successful extension effort. The project would supplement
assistance already provided for the Indonesian extension service under Credit
288-IND and to be provided under an agricultural extension project which is
currently being prepared.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic
of Indonesia, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
49.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 29, 35, 38 and 39 of this Report.
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
April 30, 1975



Annec I
page 1 of 3 popes
ODUNIBY DATA - INDONESIA
AREA                                               P1OPlULAPIWI                                   ENITY
l-,W7639 ha2t9 I                                              M~~lioi   (mid-1972)                             prWfa.l              W
U00IAL DINCATORS
Reference Countries
amp PEN CAnITA us$ (ATLAu  sz WIN                                                90               70 A          1,10 /a       220 L.
DEMGRAPBIC
21            189 ot           22  0          16c
crude dirth rat. (pe   thousnd?                                                1.               11       120384     .d       80
Infant artality rate (Per th uand live births)                  125 Ld                         11,.0      2-O8
Life eupectency at birth '(yea-ra)                               18            1.6             1.8f            50            58
Ilro-  rLP7'drU= 'r.:.U&                      ~   ~~~2.8      32b              3:   h         2g             :
Populatio                                                       2    0        2th 2rate3  3-                                2
Population growth rtat  - urban                                                     jb
Age     ~ stUctre (Percen
0-11.                                                         1.2L          1.5  c            .    n        12            1.
15-61.                                                         55j           53               52    c        55            53
Age5depenny ratio 8A00.                                                                                                     0.
4                                                 11.0
E__'~~ ftp~~ld-y  MM.  &                     1        1 ~~~l   d            1.6 /a.       1.2           1.5
Urb.. population -- Percen t of total                            15 /.1       217 .i                           20 ZI         32 /k
P.aoily planning, Nou of acceptors cumulative (thcus.)                        175              ....109
No. of users (% of married wcmen)                                            ..                            8
ERfl3ibn         force (thousands)                             34.,6101 L    h. .0,00         22,300        221,000 /d.     13,200&
Percentgae eployed in agriculture                              68 11         62 L4            71             71            56d
Parceotog    wnoploy.d                                          5             2 
RE& ES-i"TIOalincome receivd by higheet 5%                  ...17 /o.p                                     2   Pg        2 
Percent of ntioalicoee received by highest 20%                                                  L, 12Zo       5 5            5
Percent of   ational income, received by lowest 20%              .9Ln
Percect of national income recei-ed by leowat 40%                                               209..   2      131
msTitiauTio Ior LAND OWAIESRIP
%  woond by top lUN of owners                                    .            .                 31.Lia
6 owned by  eoallast 10% of nwnero                              I.*                               Le
NEALTNf AND NUtRTION
populatio  pe  phyeicio                                      35,0OOD       27,650            7,600 4Lt     1.,800        9,100 
Peltico per nurs.n person                                    ..          8,02.           72,030 4g~      5,.10    -   5,39
Popel.tion per hospital ted                                   1,1.10 /r    1,720            8,120 /uj,     1,620 at.a       850  t    
per capita calorie oupply as % of requircate                     832 4S,       62               80aL           90           62
Per "epit. protein oupply, total (grams pernday~1                 h .          4i,j 3 Ic.                     53            1.5
of ohicb, anioa3 and Pulse                                     15 Li          )Th            ..             16 /z         22 ~
Death rat. 1-1. years /77
pitary school enrolleet ratio                         660no         7                50   .a        79 4Lao      12 A_ad
Adjusted  6seo.ndary aocoul enrolment rai 6.121, oen                                                          0  Ic         1.5
Years of iiooli.g Provided, first and second level               12            12               10            12            10
Vocational enrollment as %      S   of ec. school enrollment     20 /a         28              ..              6                 4 1
Adult literacy rate %                                            39 T,j        56 Idol         .              36            72Li
rie'-ge No. of person. per roo      (urba)                      i.7A  i.                                     P-8L Zd
Percent of oncupied cnits without piped water                   ......                                                   -  66 
Access to electricity (ae % of total population)......                                                                      23 
Percent of 0-1a pepulatiom     cen tostd to electricity         *.....                                                       6     d
Madl    rcei-rer per 100 Population                               7           1114               6             23 ~j        16 1
Peeseger car per 1000 population                                  1             2Lg a                          I ~
Electric powr conensption (koch P.o.)                            19           023/              112p         .l0U           55L
Newsprint ounscption p.c. kg per year                           0.2            .2  a           0.2j         .01    a       17
Note_     Figures refer either to the latest perid. or to             account of ensiro,seentl temperatue     od   eghe     n
the latest Ye.-s. Latest period, refer in principle to                distribution bY age and Ce    of neiclpp-tion      e.P--016
the pers  956-0 or  966-0; te latst  ~ i,, ri,   A   protein etandards (requirm   ne      for all co-tries an matab-
chiye"to    195660 and   196671te0.-tYSrei               ru           lished by EWA6 Economic Ranearoh Serence provide for a minimu
.   The Per 19 pi0   GOP 19 imt i    t0a.k     rccufraloance of 60 grams of total protein per day, aroA 20 grzamso
your other then 1960, calculated by the acm   conversion         animal and pulse protein, of which 20 gram. ehould be animal
technique as the 1972 World Rank Atlas.                           protein.  T   esadr.aesmwhtlwrta                    hs    f7
,L2 Aveag   nuebr of daughters per woman of reproductive              gram  of total protein and 23 gram   of anmlprotein ae an
age.                                                              average for the world, proposed by PAO in the Thr    World Food
zi  Ibpulaticn growth retep, or for the decades ending in             SurVey.
1960 and 1970.                                                    S       se tudides hove sggested that crude death rates'of children
A   Ratio of populaticn coder 15 and 65 and over to                   ages 1 through 4. may be used as a first approiimatio  n lden of
tin  of agsel54h1 for age dependmeny ratio and toabr-             malnutrition.
force of ages 15-61. for econcoli dependency ratio.           LA  Percentage euroned of correnpondiog population of school Vg
zk  FAO reference standard. represet ptoriological re-                andeined for each ooantry'.
quirecento for norol activity and health, taking
1972;     lb  1965-70;    /c  Estimtate    /d  1971;   /a   1962;   If   Projocticons, 1973;   IA' 1951-56;    A   196o-7p;
0, Municipaliies, regmeny capitals and other pleces with urban characterietica;        L,j For the definition of urban, see
UN~  ongwrehifi Yeartm   1972, page 1541.   /k   For the definition of urhen   se   UN Dsooeraphic Isurbook .1972, cage 155;
1961;     _     I72-73j7  , AID,estinate of labor force in age group 15-59; B610 report gives a figure cf 160.4. mi-o
baoed on the 1971 popul tie    cenon.   The difference ia due to changes in the definition of a worker.      In the 1971 cenoa
personso were classified only on the besie of their -Im activitiea; this.led to.th. eXc1Ucmun of.several cateagories, such
.c h-usewives; ~o     1966-67;     j NHcweholds;     &g  1967-68;     r  1961.;  /B   Number on the register, not eli working
in tbe.countcy;   Lt1. 1969i   /u   Ocvemment only; ' /v1966; ~-         Including rur.1 hospitals;    /x   1961-63;
ZLx   1969-nl; . /z  1969-70;    /m   Not including West Irien;     lab  Approximate enrollment as perentage of population
in sic to tn age group;               /an  Eatimat   which in-ludes overege students;     lad_ 1967;   /a.   Approximate
enrollment n   percentage of population in 11-15 age group;     la    Up to end of second level,    Igg   1965i   Lpah' Public
education;    Ici  15 years and over;    LAI. Definition not available;     /.   population of ten yea      nod ovor baaed on
ocs percet samPle data of 1971;      /&   Imports conly;   Lpm  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over into tal1 labor
force; ~-      Graphical Interpolation;    7a    Inside or out.ide;    Za   Percent cf dwellings. 
o  The Philippines has been selected  o an objective country for it. geogrphica      similarity and becacs. of its apparent
mar  advanced stage of economIc developmet.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                        1960 -65           1965 -70           1973
GNP at Market Prices          15369         100.0                        1.9                  4.9             8.0
Gross Domestic Investment       2911         18.9                         3.3               11.5             17.0
Gross National saving           2083         13.6                         5.8                 5.1            20.8
Current Account Balance          828          5.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           2957         19.2                         1.5                 7.8            24.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          3170          20.6                        0.2                10.9             21.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                   Labor Force/                    V. A. Per Worker
U   X Mln.                                                        ELI Mln.  US $V
Agriculture                    4243          43.6               30.5     69.0                   139           63
Industry                       1877          19.3                3.0      6.8                   626          285
Services                       3609          37.1                8.3     18.8                   435          198
Unallocated                      -            -                  2.4      5.4
Total/Average            .            .                              *                       *          -
~~~~~~~~~7-77Z 100.0 G: 2 0.
GOVERNMUIT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Government
(?    Hln.)         % of GrP                       F% Bin.)         X of GDP
-17           197    T  96 -7                    1973/74     1973          1972
Current Receipts                                                                       977         14.8        12.9
Current Expenditure                              -                                     702       -1-. 7 9.8
Current Surplus                                                                        273          4.1          3.1
Capital Expenditures                                                                   474          7.2         6.4
External Assistance (net)                                                              208          3.1         3,3
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                   1969          1970        19n          1972         1973        197
Z4illion   Rp outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                       230           315         432          690          987        1455
Bank credit to Public Sector                 60           57          129           57          37            2
Bank Credit to Private Sector               172          306          451          599         897         1125
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           8.5           9.4         11.4         15.2        14.9
General Price Index   (Sept. 1966-100)    545          612           638          680         891          1253
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        17.7         12.3           4.2          6.6        31.0          40.6
Bank credit to Public Sector               33.3        - 5.0         126.3       - 55.8      - 35.1        - 94.6
Bank credit to Private Sector              91.1         77.9          47.4        32.8         49.8          25.4
NOTEt  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
1/ Converigon it an exchange rate of Rp. 390 - US $1.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.       nUnallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not ayailable
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973     1974                                               US $ Mln    7.
(Millions US $) rPe-
Est.
Exports of Goods, NFS        1757       2957     6842             Oil                                 2304    59.7
Imports of Goods, NFS        1875      3170     5832                                                   362     9.4
Resource Gap (deficit =    -)  -I       -3        D                                                    526    13.5
98     2.5
Interest Payments (net)      - 46      - 72)                                                            84     2.2
Workers' Remittances          -           - )   -1236
Other Factor Payments (net)  -318      -543)
Net Transfers                -364       -615    -1236              All other commodities               493    12.7
Balance on Current Account    482       -828    - 226                    Total                               100,0
Direct Foreign Investment     258       290      454             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              447       624                                                                US $ Mln
Amortization              - 70       -138
Subtotal                            _W)       635               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             4593
Capital Grants                 ..         ..      ..               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Other Capital (net)           181       208)     -176              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              98       169)
Increase in Reserves (+)      432       325      687             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973-
Gross Reserves (end year)     574       806     1470                                                         %
Net Reserves   (end year)     458        783    1470                Public Debt, ic. guaranteed             7.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       4         5       .
of which: Petroleum         2          2
Exports                     877      1348      4688
of which: Petroleum       877      1348      4688       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (   Yrch   31,1975) (Million Us$)
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Thronah .Tulv 1971  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   1971          Outstanding & Disbursed                 -       215.5
Through JulY 1971              Sine  August 19715             Undisbursed                         252.5      346.3
us   1.00 = US $ 0.0027             1. 00 = -  $ 4.0021 L     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       252.5      561.8
1   Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services, with oil exports
net of factor payments and imports of the oil sector.
.  not available
. not applicable
April 7, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THF, STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.          STATEMFNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1975)
Loan/                                                           US$ Million
Credit   Fiscal                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number   Year      Purpose                                Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
127     1969      Irrigation Rehabilitation                     5.0      0.1
154     1969      Highway                                      28.0      0.8
155     1969      Agricultural Estates                         16.0      0.7
165     1970      Electricity Distribution                     15.0      0.2
193     1970      PUSRI Fertilizer                             35.0      1.9
194     1970      Second Agricultural Estates                  17.0      5.2
195     1970      Second Irrigation Rehabilitation             18.5      5.6
210     1971      Telecommunications Expansion                 12.8      2.9
211     1971      Fisheries                                     3.5      1.9
219     1971      Education                                     4.6      2.4
220     1971      Third Irrigation Rehabilitation              14.5      4.1
246     1971      Seeds                                         7.5      4.5
259     1971      Tea                                          15.0      6.2
260     1971      Second Highway                               34.0     14.8
275     1972      Third Technical Assistance                    4.0      1.7
288     1972      Second Education                              6.3      5.8
289     1972      Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation             12.5      4.9
300     1972      Population                                   13.2      9,7
310     1972      Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)          10.0      3.8
318     1972      Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation             8.5      5.7
319     1972      Fourth Agricultural Estates                  11.0      8.1
334     1972      Second Electricity Distribution              40.o     31.3
355     1973      Beef Cattle Development                       3.6      3.2
358     1973      North Sumatra Smallholder Development         5.0      4.?
387     1973      Third Education                              13.5     13.5
388     1973      Third Highway                                14.0     11.0
399     1973     lWest Java Thermal Power                      46.0     45.4
400     1973      Smallholder and Private Estate Tea            7.8      7.6
405     1973      Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                50.0     48.7
428     1974      Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                16.5     16.2
436     1974      Private Development Finance Co. (PDFCI)      10.0     10.0
451     1974      Fourth Technical Assistance                   5.0      4.8
479     1974      Bali Tourism                                 16.0     15.8
480     1974      Fisheries Credit                              6.5      6.5
514     1974      Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension               30.0     29.8
1005    1974      Railway                                48.o           48.o
1040    1975      Jakarta Urban Development              25.0           23.0
1049 a/ 1975      Five Cities 'Water Supply              14.5           14.5
1054    1975      Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)   50.0           50.0
1089 a/ 1975      Second Fertilizer Expansion PUSRI III)115.0          115.0
252.R56l1.8    589.5
a/ Not yet effective
b/ On April 1, 1975 a $65 million loan for the Sixth Irrigation Project was signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
.4.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1975)
US$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Total                               252.5     561.8       589.5
of which has been repaid_             -         -           -
Total now outstanding               252.5     561,dS      T89
Amount sold                   0.03
of which has been repaid      0.0      .03
Total now held by Bank and          252.47    561.8
IDA (prior to exchange
adjustment)
Total undisbursed                   250.5     339.0       589e5
B.      STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMTS (as of March 31, 1975)
Fiscal                                      Type of                   US$ Million
Year    Obligor                            Business              Loan   Equity   Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                10.6      2.5   13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                        Textiles               2.5      0.8    3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia          Textiles               2.0      0.5    2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia               Cables                 2.sd     0.4    3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Manuf. Corp.  Textiles               4.5      1.5    6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel            Tourism               11.0       -    11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                 5.4      0.7    6.1
1974    P.T, Primatexco Indonesia          Textiles               2.0      0.3    2*3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan Electronics      Electronic pdts.       0.9       -     0.9
1974    P.To PDFCI                         Devp. Fin. Co.          -       0.5    0.5
1974    P.T. Kanaltex                      Textiles               2.4      0.6    3.0
1974    P.T, Semen Cibinong                Cement                 !-0      1.5    6.5
Total                 49.1      9.3   58.4
Less sold or repaid   19.6      1.4   20.9
and cancelled
Total now held        29,5      7.9   3705
Undisbursed
(including partici-    6.7      1.6    8.3
pant's portion)



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
Cr. No. 127    Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
All the equipment supplied under the credit is being well utilized
and disbursements are 98 percent of appraisal timetable. Completion of the
project is expected to be delayed in order to complete much needed additional
drainage work, the financing of which was not provided for under the credit.
These additional costs will be met by the Government. The revised economic
rate of return on the project, which was calculated at 50 percent at appraisal,
is now expected to be about 25 percent. The closing date has been postponed
to December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 154    Highway:  US$28 Million Credit of June 20, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Rehabilitation work was substantially completed prior to the
original closing date. However, it was necessary to postpone the closing
date by one year to December 31, 1975 to complete procurement of a small
amount of equipment and materials.
Cr. No. 155    Agricultural Estates:   US$16 Million Credit of
June 20, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
With recent improvements in management and much higher interna-
tional prices the financial situation of the estate groups is improving.
The field and factory standards have now been raised to a good technical
level and the management has been advised to concentrate on cost control
in order to prepare for the time when produce prices are less attractive
than they are today. The combined efforts of the management, consultants
and IDA supervision missions are yielding good results.
Cr. No. 165    Electricity Distribution:   US$15 Million Credit of
October 29, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
See comment for Credit No. 334. The closing date has been post-
poned by 18 months to June 30, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
Cr. No. 193    PUSRI Fertilizer:   US$35 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970 (as amended May 1973); Closing Date:
December 31, 1975
The urea plant has successfully passed its performance test and
is operating at close to rated capacity. The gas gathering and transmission
system is also completed and sufficient gas is being delivered to the plant.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by the closing date of December 31,
1975.
Cr. No. 194    Second Agricultural Estates:   US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
After initial delays, there have been considerable improvements
in management and these, combined with high prices for palm oil and rubber,
have resulted in a much stronger financial position, particularly for the
oil palm group (PNP VI). On the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort is
necessary to improve fertilizer application and tapping methods. With
the rapid expansion of investment on both estate groups, there is a need
to employ expertise in financial planning and management, which are now
the main constraints on efficient development.
Cr. No. 195    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 MIillion Credit of
June 15, 1970; Closing Date: November 30, 1976
Problems of quality and progress of construction still exist,
but the consultants are tackling these vigorously, and the situation is
improving, although not sufficiently to make up for earlier delays. Costs
are likely to double the overall appraisal estimate, due-to inflation, but
the Government will provide any additional funds required. Completion of
disbursements will be about two years behind the original schedule. The
economic rate of return is however still more than 20%.
Cr. No. 210    Telecommunications Expansion:   US$12.8 Million Credit of
July 13, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The closing date
has been postponed by 18 months due to delays in delivery of goods. The
Government has increased the tariffs to achieve the required rate of return
and a new charter for PERUMTEL has also been published.
Cr. No. 211    Fisheries:  US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project supplies funds for the construction of 30'fully
equipped skipjack boats and technical assistance. It is about 24 months
behind the original schedule due to delays in engaging the consultants
and in executing the contracts for the shore facilities. No further
delay is anticipated. There have been very substantial project cost
increases (from $4.3 million to $8.5 million). Because of the greatly
increased skipjack prices, however, the project is still expected to be
financially viable.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Cr. No. 219    Education:  US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Project implementation is satisfactory. Civil works for the five
Technical Training Centers (TTCs) have been completed. All furniture
deliveries and installation have also been completed. About 90% of the
equipment has been purchased and about 60% delivered and installed. Three
TTCs commenced operation in April 1975 and the remaining two, will commence
in June 1975. All will operate at full capacity by January 1976 when the
new academic year begins. Over 500 technical teachers have completed or
are about to complete their training. Technical assistance financed by
the U.K. for the project is also satisfactory. Disbursement has improved
considerably.  Revised total project cost is now about 40% above appraisal
estimate. The Government will finance the cost overrun. The project is
expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 220    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit of
November 6, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Construction remains about two to three years behind schedule
partly because of problems with preparation of contract documents and sub-
sequently due to inflation. These have now been mostly overcome. While
no further delays are expected, it is unlikely that the time lost could
be regained. There has been a considerable increase in overall project
costs, which is being met by the Government. The economic rate of return
for the project is still over 21 percent.
Cr. No. 246    Seeds:  US$7.5 Million Credit of May 14, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Project implementation is behind schedule due to initial delays
in organization, management, procurement and provision of budgetary funds.
The latest supervision mission has reported that development of the seed
farm is hampered by the slow execution of a contract to develop irrigation
infrastructure and the seed processing plant. The contract for irrigation
infrastructure has been renegotiated. The establishment of rice-seed
research facilities at the project site is behind schedule due to difficulties
in recruiting the necessary technical assistance and delays in providing
the required facilities and the equipment. The contract for research
technical assistance has now been signed and with the reorganization of
the Government's research program, this component of the project is expected
to proceed rapidly. The seeds certification service is performing well
and development of the Klaten Seed District is progressing satisfactorily.
This project is being kept under frequent supervision.
Cr. No. 259    Tea:  US$15 Million Credit of June 14, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal
expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of 3 additional
factories. Project completion estimated for December 1977 can probably be



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating pressure on fund
availabilities and the main challenge for the two PTP's will be to decrease
working capital requirements, reduce overhead and indirect costs and improve
labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260    Second Highway:  US$35 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
All construction work is now satisfactorily under way. However,
the delay caused initially by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and land slides will
result in the project being completed about one year behind schedule.
Design standards for the road sections have been slightly lowered and
some savings will therefore be achieved. These and other savings are
expected to offset construction cost increases.
Cr. No. 275    Third Technical Assistance:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing date has
been postponed to complete disbursements for ongoing studies.
Cr. No. 288    Second Education:  US$6.3 Million Credit of
March 9, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Working drawings and furniture and equipment lists for all
project institutions have been completed. Physical facilities will be
completed and all project institutions will begin operations by the end of
1976. The government has agreed to provide additional funds to meet the
cost overruns due to inflation. Postponement of the closing date by about
one year is likely to be necessary.
Cr. No. 289    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Civil works and equipment purchase for the main project, Pekalen-
Sampean, are proceeding but completion of civil works will be about two
years behind schedule. Due to inflation, project costs are likely to be
substantially higher than appraisal estimates. Consultants for the various
studies are at work with their counterparts. Groundwater investigations
have been delayed due to procurement difficulties. The rehabilitation and
storage feasibility studies are on schedule. Disbursements are also on
schedule.
Cr. No. 300    Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Although progress is being made under this project, implementa-
tion continues to be hampered by management weaknesses. Lack of clear
administrative direction has resulted in overall delays in securing bud-
getary funds and problems of program coordination. Procurement contracts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
for vehicles and other equipment have been awarded and UNICEF is assisting
in the procurement of materials and supplies necessary for various population
control programs. The civil works component is behind schedule, but is now
proceeding more rapidly as the capacity of the implementing agency gradually
improves. The field worker program has expanded more rapidly than expected
when the project was appraised. This project is being supervised closely.
Cr. No. 310    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):   US$10 Million Credit of
June 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This credit is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
rise rapidly.
Cr. No. 318    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:   US$8.5 Million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1976
Progress on this project is satisfactory and disbursements are
expected to rise.
Cr. No. 319    Fourth Agricultural Estates:   US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The physical progress of the project is ahead of the appraisal
schedule and the financial position of the estate group is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 334    Second Electricity Distribution:   US$40 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) has encountered substantial foreign
cost increases ($7.0 million) and implementation delays due to procurement
problems and cumbersome management procedures. Many of these difficulties
have been resolved, but it is unlikely that the project can be completed
before mid-1978, two years behind the original schedule.
Cr. No. 355    Beef Cattle Development:   US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Progress on this project for development of beef cattle production
in the outer islands has suffered from serious delays caused largely by
problems in securing Government funds and in clearance of documents by
Indonesian Government departments and consequent lack of essential equipment.
Land acquisition and procurement of cattle are proving more difficult than
expected, and there has been a substantial increase in total project costs.
The means of improving project performance are currently being discussed
with the Government.
Cr. No. 358    North Sumatra Smallholder Development:   US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project has suffered from severe financial and organizational
difficulties due primarily to the lack of experience of project management,



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
the remote location of the project and inadequate Central Government support.
The Resident Staff has been following the project closely. The rubber
replanting program is behind schedule, but with progress now being made
it may be possible to accelerate the program in accordance with appraisal
estimates. Government has taken a number of steps to overcome the problems
and accelerate project implementation. Project progress will continue to
be closely monitored.
Cr. No. 387    Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of
June 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding on schedule, except for a
10-month delay in equipment procurement which has now been overcome. Manus-
cript testing of the first set of texts has been completed. About 32 million
textbooks are scheduled to be printed in August, 1975. Distribution of
textbooks to all primary schools is now being planned and will necessitate
the use of a number of government agencies. Staff in the provinces have been
trained in the use of the textbooks and training courses have commenced for
teachers. Lack of travel funds in the provinces has impeded teacher training,
but it is expected that this difficulty will be overcome as the project
management, which is effective, becomes more familiar with government pro-
cedures. Project costs are now estimated at $56 million, 44% above the
original estimate because of increased costs of paper and teacher training.
The Government is expected to meet all cost increases.
Cr. No. 388    Third Highways: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Construction bidding and consultant selection have been proceeding
on schedule. Some cost increases, due to inflation, are expected.
Cr. No. 399    West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Bids received in November 1974 for the first two 100 mw units at
Muara Karang were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of
appraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted
in an increase in the total project cost of more than 100 percent. The
Government will finance the additional cost. PLN has satisfactorily met
the first year targets in its financial recovery plan provided for under
the terms of the credit agreement.
Cr. No. 400    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project nurseries are well managed and where rehabilitation
has taken place results are encouraging. Technical questions related to
loan applications by farmers have been resolved and BRI is expected to
proceed with extending credits to tea growers. The contract of the financial
advisor to BRI has been extended for another year. Progress on this proj-
ect is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Cr. No. 405    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:   US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Bids for equipment required for first phase major rehabilitation
have been received; a substantial cost overrun is expected, which the Gov-
ernment has agreed to finance. Some organizational problems are now being
resolved and disbursements are expected to rise.
Cr. No. 428    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Closing Da:e: December 31, 1978
Despite recent increase in construction costs, the project remains
financially viable because revenues from the sale of plots has risen propor-
tionately. Construction has fallen behind schedile due to land acquisition
problems, but developed land is being occupied as fast as it is made avail-
able. While there is still a backlog of applications for industrial plots,
the rate of new applications has fallen off during recent months and the
estate is intensifying its promotional efforts.
Cr. No. 436    Private Development Finance Company of Indouesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Closinlg Date:
December 31, 1978
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding and re-
cruiting qualified local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating stage.
Its commitments are rising at a satisfactory rate.
Cr. No. 451    Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Closing Date: Decembier 31. 1976
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479    Bali Tourism:   US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 4, 1974; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Progress under this project is slightly behind schedule due to
the lack of experience of the implementing agency and difficulties in
coordination with other Government organizations. This situation has
steadily improved as local staff have gained experience and project advisors
have taken up their positions. Final design of the infrastructure and
hotel training school is underway. Preliminary lease negotiations with
potential hotel investors are expected to begin in mid-May.
Cr. No. 480    Fisheries Credit:   US$6.5 Million Credit of
June 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit became effective on January 8, 1975 and is progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Cr. No. 514    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:   US$30.0 Million
Credit of October 3, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This credit became effective on January 10, 1975 and the work
will commence soon.
Loan No. 1005  Railway:   US$48.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The initial procurement of material and equipment has been slow,
but with assistance from an international procurement agency it is expected
to improve. First year project investment totalled 70 percent of the
amount planned. Passenger'traffic has risen faster than expected, but
freight traffic has declined, due largely to a shortage of operating loco-
motives. Rising costs has made it necessary for the Government to consider
increasing freight tariff rates in order to obtain sufficient revenues.
Recommendations for the award of contracts for technical assistance to improve
overall railway operations are being evaluated.
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25.0 Million Loan
of September 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The first year of the two-year Kampung Improvement Program has been
satisfactorily completed. The second year's activities are well underway
with first year savings being applied to increase the water supply beyond
originally planned levels. The newly formed National Urban Development
Corporation is currently seeking consultants both to assist in the develop-
ment of their operations and to prepare urban projects in other,cities.
Full responsibility for supervision of consultants designing the Klender
Site and Service scheme has been transferred to NUDC so as to'ensure prep-
arations of a design with standards appropriate to the low-income target
population.
Loan No. 1049  Five Cities Water Supply:  US$14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This loan is expected to become effective by May 6, 1975.
Loan No. 1054  Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):   US$50 Million Loan
of November 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This loan became effective January 14, 1975 and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1089  Second Fertilizer Expansion:   US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1978
This loan became effective on April 29, 1975.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation Project:   US$65 Million Loan of April 1,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan is expected to become effective by the end of June 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA - AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
EXTENSION PROJECT
Borrower:                     Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                       US$21.5 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                        25 years including six years of grace.
Project
Description:                The project provides support for the Govern-
ment's agricultural research and extension
program and includes development of four
production-oriented research programs (rice,
palawija crops, highland vegetables and rubber)
based at national centers in representative
production areas and development of a National
Agricultural Information Center and nine regional
information centers.
Estimated
Cost:                                      US$ Million
Foreign     Local    Total
Research Program: Construc-
tion, Equipment and Estab-
lishment Costs                   6.4        12.1     18.5
Information Program: Con-
struction, Equipment and
Establishment Costs              1.4         2.5      3.9
Technical Assistance and
Fellowhips                       7.2         1.0      8.2
Contingencies                      6.6         9.4     16.0
TOTAL                   21.5        25.0     46.6
Financing Plan:               Bank           Government          Total
21.5              25.1              46.6
Disbursements:  (Fiscal Year)      1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  TOTAL
Annual         1.1   5.7    6.9  61.3   2.5   1.0   21.5
Cumulative     1.1   6.8   1:3.7  18.0  20.5  21.5  21.5



ANNEX III
Page 2
Procurement:                  Civil works contracts in excess of $100,000
for the rice and palawija research center
($4.4 million) and the rubber research center
($4.0 million) would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding. Contracts
for the construction of the highland vegetable
center ($1.1 million) and the ten information
centers which are small and scattered (totalling
$2.5 million) and contracts of less than
$100,000 for the rice and palawija and rubber
centers would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertized locally in
accordance with Government procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. For purposes
of bid comparison for civil works contracts,
qualified local contractors would receive a
preference of 7-1/2 percent. Research and in-
formation equipment ($1.9 million) is of a
highly specialized character and local after
sales service is of critical importance. The
contracts for library equipment and furniture
would be small ($0.3 million) and unsuitable
for international competitive bidding. Con-
tracts for equipment and furniture would there-
fore be procured on the basis of competitive
procurement procedures involving, inter alia,
the solicitation of at least three price
quotations. Contracts for agricultural vehicles
($0.5 million) in excess of US$50,000 equivalent
would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Smaller vehicle contracts
($0.3 million) would be awarded on the basis
of competitive procurement procedures involving
the solicitation of at least three price
quotations. The Government would recruit
technical services ($8.2 million) with the
assistance of one or more consultancy organi-
zations approved by the Bank.
Technical
Assistance:            (a)  Consultant organization or organizations to
manage the technical assistance and fellow-
ship programs.
(b) Architectural, engineering and cost control
consultants to assist the ARD project imple-
mentation unit in executing the civil works
and equipment procurement components of the
research program.



ANNEX III
Page 3
(c) 62.5 man-years of research advisory and
technical services to ARD and the research
centers and 14 man-years of technical serv-
ices to the NIC and regional information
centers.
(d) 119 long-term and 54 short-term fellowships.
Appraisal Report:         246a-IND



__K    XTHAILAND     CCs iO                                                   liO IRe          RtH~J                                                                1 Tlrls  B4E 11429
'tHanAR AcRE                                                                     -                                                                ITHILADN_DONESIA
R;ndcAoh.  ''      2r~J C '                                                                              PHILIPPINES  / r                        AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH A ND EXTENSION
SCcif A   6A200    Sec,       BRJN>4;,                   >                                          Project Reseorch and Informotion Centers
-z.X  E   |          )       ~~~~~~~~~South  Chlnco  Seao   B R LJNE, F 11Z"                                                      N   A/. -
'n            MAAS                                        t                                                                         uhuoXr//iA/k90 *  RCEGICRCCIhRECRHATC0 CENTER ICIR  aRER TARNUR RHINFR
D                                                                              SDUTH  $WMATI  VA  { ^, ., * -, I  .  - , I i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEACHCERERCOE  ER  .  A
2                                                                        wiCIAL  TEvrlToRY  AC-H , Te f hne 7 r n..c ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rC y O F O S e o t . ; | ; . ZREHCE.LIAEEMCICR,  ,RE  El.l-R   z
M'7..'ALA tSIAI~                                                                                                                                             ~T
2AW #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FCI                                                 / 0    ~ - IREERRA'HICRAL RUI' nARER; 
iII~~~~~~~~; ~~~~~~>c  -~~~~~~~~~  -L                     1~~~-1-N1
4 XrsX KALIMA:TAM  . .  4 sAvEaTo I  ,                  |   :-       9 -        S O /7 d o     S e o           &t      w             0        I | | 2~~~~~~~~~~--L  L'  p~Rff . ..- ,- .
:.'iVAPORF 5LUTh 5'L-MA'TA15                                                  I ,,  I'  *           .-HALMAJ-Eific A H
C RA'IHL  IA            C'                                                  i.Q  =                                                           a   c   I  I           a
PROE           I    EVI                      -lL E I  ' 'r                                            -L-i:hbl.,i; _I                               -    I,\ 
~~~~~ii                  OtRR4IE      T ,-l                 - ; I  -                 -     L     C.             ---      L [ii     !,        _  ~        [  !;.  1,,)@
H NRR NHH 5rL RER I R R         11I  '   -            C'     I   -     ;-;   -    =      -  --     -  1, >  I, ,,,,  L  7  -    - -   _      _   ,   IR. 2Me1i7E\
C ~~~~                                                           I                          'II -~'IA  T
i 6 lAlAM lAyA / ; _ - r,l'; . A.                                                        0 17 iW c  40D -   H                                                                      ID'
=11ZAT"L~~~                                                                              11,                    -MIE
LH ~AHHRL.RERITRJC ACERO IRRIAR_ HE                                                                                                           1 CHD '  I.   5   iO    ,5
2EREAL  Ign do          5c              RE                     N, e,
IRILOC'RRH                -T5                 -!'15                                     5'15                                      5r-                         C  .  < h .5
2HRCELCRRRLI                                          -- 
22 MELIRA          5...                                                         PA'S,          'cC   I-"'                              MEECELE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIE
AC EAL'              2.         'Lfl               "                  4-                -               2-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91.  q 3~19  q~ 1~
.2 WERE RHRH RHEHAURA         CE.        "ul  --  ~~~~~~~~~.  :~~..--  , - --  - ~ _
22 RARE RIARA TERIOURRA                                 ''     -.     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~  25



