CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1179 IND
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 19, 1975


﻿CONFORMED
LOAN NUMBER 1179 IND
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
0
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 19, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan ind Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "ARD" means the Agricultural Research and Development Agency of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, established pursuant to Presidential Decree
No. 45 of 1974 of the Borrower, as such Decree may be amended from time
to time, and such term shall include any successor to ARD;
(b)   "AETE" means the Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
Agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, established pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 45 of 1974 of the Borrower, as such Decree may be
amended from time to time, and such term shall include any successor to AETE;
(c)   "PIU  Research" means the project implementation unit to be
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement;
(d)   "PIU Extension" means the project implementation unit established
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(a) of Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Project) No. 288 IND dated March 9, 1972, between the
Borrower and the Association;
(e)   "NIC" means the National Information Center of the National Institute
of Agricultural Education, Training and Extension, of AETE, established by


﻿4
Ministerial Decree No. 190/Kpts/Org/V/1975 of the Borrower, as such Decree may
be amended from time to time;
(f)   "palawija crops" means field crops other than rice usually planted in
rotation with rice, including maize, sorghum, soybean and cassava;
(g)   "national rice research program" means the program whose objective
is to increase the effective yield and production of rice, and to improve the
economic and social conditions of the rural population, through the introduction
or development of new and improved plant varieties, soil and water management
practices, pest and disease control materials and methods, cultivation, harvesting,
processing, storage and marketing techniques, cropping systems, and machinery,
among others;
(h)   "national palawija crops research program" means the program whose
objective is to increase the effective yield and production of palawija crops,
especially maize, sorghum, soybean and cassava, and to improve the economic and
social conditions of the rural population, through the introduction or development
of new and improved plant varieties, soil and water management practices, pest
and disease control materials and methods, cultivation, harvesting, processing,
storage and marketing techniques, cropping systems, and machinery, among others;
(i)   "national highland vegetables research program" means the program
whose objective is to increase the effective yield and production of highland
vegetables, especially crucifers, potato, tomato, and beans, and to improve the
economic and social conditions of the rural population, through the introduction
or development of new and improved plant varieties, soil and water management
practices, pest and disease control materials and methods, cultivation, processing,
harvesting, storage and marketing techniques, cropping systems, and machinery,
among others;
(j)   "national rubber research program" means the program whose objective
is to increase the effective yield and production of rubber, and to improve the
economic and social conditions of the rural population, through the introduction
or development of new and improved clones, establishment, maintenance, tapping,
stimulation, cover cropping, intercultivation, plant protection and general agronomic
practices, product processing, preparation, storage and marketing techniques, and
machinery, among others; and
(k)   "national agricultural information program" means the program whose
objective is to provide improved agricultural extension aid materials for use by


﻿5
agricultural extension staff, and thereby assist in increasing the effective yield,
production and marketing of all farm products, especially on the part of
smallholders, through the operation of an efficient information-collection,
-processing, -production, -reproduction, -supply and -distribution system.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million five hundred thousand dollars
($21,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981, or such other
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering, financial and research practices, as follows:
(i)         ARD    shall through PIU   Research be responsible for the
construction, equipment, technical assistance and fellowships
included in the Project and relating to the national research
programs defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement;
(ii)        AETE   shall through PIU   Extension be responsible for the
construction, equipment, technical assistance and fellowships
included in the Project and relating to the national agricultural
information program; and
(iii)       the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture shall be responsible for
the establishment of the national and regional centers included
in the Project.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain a project implementation
unit within ARD (PIU Research) and maintain the existing project implementation
unit in AETE (PIU Extension). The Borrower shall ensure that PIU Research and
PIU Extension are at all times staffed by an adequate number of competent and
experienced persons.
(c)   Without limitation upon the obligations of the Borrower under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds
to cover the budgeted expenditures, estimated to be made for the Project during
each quarter, are available not later than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) By December 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and thereafter, in order to assist the


﻿7
Borrower in the preparation of bidding documents and in the supervision of the
construction of the civil works included in Parts A and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ architects, management and cost control consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   By December 31, 1975, or such other date as the Borrower and the
Bank shall agree, and thereafter, the Borrower shall cause ARD to employ for
the purpose of the Project a research advisor to the Head of ARD, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   By December 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, and thereafter, in order to assist the Borrower in
the recruitment of the research, extension and management experts required to
carry out Part C(1) of the Project and in arranging the fellowship program included
in Part C(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ an organization or
organizations whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)   By March 31, 1976, or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, and thereafter, the Borrower shall cause ARD to
employ program advisors for each of the national research programs defined in
Section 1.02 of this Agreement and a financial administrator for PIU Research,
and shall cause AETE to employ an agricultural extension advisor/specialist for
NIC, all of whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)   The Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, as and when
required, the persons to fill the positions referred to in Part I of the Annex to
Schedule 2 other than those persons referred to in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this
Section, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that at all times an adequate
number of competent and experienced persons are employed to carry out the
national programs defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the position of program director of
each of the national programs defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement, of director
of PIU Research and of director of PIU Extension are filled at all times by a
qualified and experienced person and that before any appointment is made to any
such position, the Bank is informed of the qualifications and experience of the
persons being considered for appointment to such position and is afforded a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications
and experience of such persons.
(c)   The program directors referred to in the preceding paragraph (b) shall
have general responsibility for the review, evaluation, formulation, organization,
coordination and monitoring of their respective programs, including the Project
component relating thereto.


﻿9
(d)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, by
December 31, 1978, establish the national research centers under Part A of the
Project to serve thereafter as national research headquarters for their respective
commodity programs. The Borrower shall ensure that each of such centers are
at all times supplied with an adequate amount of research equipment and related
facilities.
Section 3.07. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that AETE establishes
no regional agricultural information centers other than those referred to in Part
B(2) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property, and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower


﻿10
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause records to be maintained adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times cause all physical facilities and
equipment provided under the Project to be operated and maintained, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to
be made, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to
establish conditions of employment satisfactory to attract and retain competent
and experienced professional staff at the national research centers and regional
research stations referred to in Part A of the Project and at ARD Headquarters.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
maintain under its Minister of Agriculture a Commission for Agricultural Research
and an Executive Board to the Commission which will provide policy guidance
for the research programs described in Section 1.02 of this Agreement and overall
coordination and budgetary control of such programs.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall require all persons who are awarded fellowships under Part C(2)
of the Project to be employed after completion of their fellowship, for a period
equivalent to at least the duration of the followship in the program to which their
fellowship applied.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Presidential Decree No. 45 of 1974 shall have been       amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the efficient management or
operation of ARD or AETE; and
(b)   Decrees      No. 11 0/Kpts/OP/3/1975,      No. 04/Ins/Org/4/1975,
No. 136/Kpts/Org/4/1975, No. 154/Kpts/Org/4/1975, No. 157/Kpts/Org/4/1975
and No. 190/Kpts/Org/V/ 1975 of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to


﻿11
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the efficient
management or operation of any of the national programs defined in Section 1.02
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Decrees No. 110/Kpts/OP/3/1975, No. 04/Ins/Org/4/1975,
No. 136/Kpts/Org/4/1975,            No. 157/Kpts/Org/4/1975             and
No. 190/Kpts/Org/V/1975 of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture are valid and
effective in accordance with the laws of the Borrower; and
(b)   that PIU Research has been validly established in accordance with the
laws of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date March 18, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿12
Cable address:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s I Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Categcry:
Aiount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
A.   Research
(1)  Civil works                    3,900,000         40%
(2)  Equipment, mate-               1,350,000          100% of foreign
rials and furni-                                 expenditures, 95% of
ture                                             local expenditures
ex-factory and 65% of
local expenditures for
imported goods
(3)  Vehicles, ex-                    350,000          100% of foreign
cluding sedans                                   expenditures and
and station                                      40% of local ex-
wagons                                           penditures
(4)  Fellowships and                5,600,000          100% of foreign
consultants'                                     expenditures
services
(5)  Unallocated                    5,500,000
B.   Extension
(6)  Civil works                    1,000,000         40%
(7)  Equipment,                      650,000          100% of foreign
materials and                                    expenditures, 95% of
furniture                                       local expenditures ex-
factory and 65% of
local expenditures for
imported goods


﻿14
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(8)   Vehicles, ex-                    150,000          100% of foreign
cluding sedans                                    expenditures and
and station                                       40% of local ex-
wagons                                            penditures
(9)   Fellowships and                 ,500,000          100% of foreign
consultants'                                      expenditures
services
(10) Unallocated                     1,500,000
TOTAL        21,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except


﻿15
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of
expenditures incurred after March 31, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $100,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen the Borrower's agricultural research
and agricultural extension service to improve: (i) the national production-oriented
agricultural research programs of the Borrower for the following commodities: rice,
palawija crops, highland vegetables and rubber; and (ii) agricultural extension service
of the Borrower to ensure that through an improved agricultural information system
the results of agricultural research are made available for use by farmers. It consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:     Research
(1)   Strengthening of the Borrower's national rice research program
and national palawija crops research program by:
(a)   the establishment of a national rice and palawija crops
research center at Sukamandi in West Java, including the
construction of office buildings, laboratory facilities, staff
housing and dormitories and health, education and
recreational facilities, and the purchase and utilization of
vehicles, furniture, field and laboratory equipment and
related materials; and
(b)   the upgrading of about six regional stations for rice
research and about four regional stations for palawija crops
research at sites to be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, including the purchase and utilization of
vehicles, field and laboratory equipment and related
materials.
(2)   Strengthening of the Borrower's highland vegetable research
program by:
(a)   the establishment of a national vegetable research center
at Margahayu in West Java, including the construction and
rehabilitation of office buildings, laboratory facilities,
greenhouses, cold storage facilities, staff housing and
dormitories, and the purchase and utilization of vehicles,
furniture, field and laboratory equipment and related
materials, for highland vegetable research; and


﻿17
(b)   the upgrading of about two regional stations for highland
vegetable research at sites to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, including the purchase and
utilization of vehicles, furniture, field and laboratory
equipment and related materials.
(3)   Strengthening of the Borrower's rubber research program by:
(a)   the establishment of a national rubber research center at
Sungei Putih in North Sumatra, including the construction
of office buildings, laboratory facilities, staff housing,
dormitories and health, education and recreational
facilities, and the purchase and utilization of vehicles,
furniture, field and laboratory equipment and related
materials; and
(b)   the establishment of a regional station for rubber research
at Sembawa in South Sumatra, including the construction
of office buildings, laboratory facilities, staff housing,
dormitories and health, education and recreational
facilities and the purchase and utilization of vehicles,
furniture, field and laboratory equipment and related
materials.
Part B:     Extension
(1)   The establishment of NIC at Ciawi in West Java, including the
construction of office and related buildings and staff housing,
and the purchase and utilization of vehicles, furniture and
equipment.
(2)   The establishment of regional agricultural information centers
at Wonocolo in East Java, Ungaran in Central Java, Kayuambon
in West Java, Bukittinggi in West Sumatra, Tanjung Morawa in
North Sumatra, Tanjung Karang in Lampung, Maros in South
Sulawesi, Banjar Baru in South Kalimantan and Lingsar in West
Nusa Tenggara or at such other sites as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank, including the construction of office
and related buildings and staff housing, and the purchase and
utilization of vehicles, furniture and equipment.


﻿18
Part C:     Technical Assistance, Fellowships and Staffing
(1)   Technical Assistance
The implementation of a program, including about 76.5
man-years of technical assistance, to assist ARD and the national
research programs defined in Section 1.02 of this Agreement
and to assist AETE and the national agricultural information
program, in accordance with the Annex to this Schedule, as such
Annex shall be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(2)  Fellowships
The implementation of a program, including about 54 short-term
and about 119 long-term fellowships, to train staff of ARD, of
the national research programs defined in Section 1.02 of this
Agreement and of the national agricultural information program.
(3)   Staffing
The implementation of a program of staff recruitment for the
national research centers and the regional research stations
included in Part A of the Project, NIC and the regional
agricultural information centers referred to in Part B of the
Project, substantially in accordance with the Annex to this
Schedule, as such Annex shall be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿19
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
(A) ARD Headquarters
(i)         Research advisor to the Head                   3    man-years
of ARD
(ii)        Financial administrator                        3    man-years
(iii)       Equipment procurement specialist               I    man-year
(iv)        Training course instructors                    2.5 man-years
(B)   Rice Research Program
(i)         Program   advisor/specialist                   4    man-years
(C)   Palawija Crops Research Program
(i)         Program   advisor/specialist                   4    man-years
(ii)        Other specialists                             14    man-years
(D)   Highland Vegetable Research Program
(i)         Program   advisor/specialist                   4    man-years
(ii)        Other specialists                             14    man-years
(E)   Rubber Research Program
(i)         Program  advisor/specialist                    4    man-years
(ii)        Other specialists                              9    man-years
(F)   AETE
(i)         NIC
Agricultural extension                        5    man-years
advisor/specialist
(ii)        Regional Information Centers
Agricultural information                      9    man-years
specialists


﻿20
II. Staffing
Professional*
(A)   National rice and palawija crops
research center and regional
stations                                                 57
(B)   National vegetable research center
and regional stations                                    24
(C)   National rubber research center
and regional station                                     48
(D)   NIC and regional centers                                  50
TOTAL                                             179
*     M.Sc., Ph.D. or equivalent


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                  expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1982                                             235,000
November 15, 1982                                        245,000
May 15, 1983                                             255,000
November 15, 1983                                        270,000
May 15, 1984                                             280,000
November 15, 1984                                        290,000
May 15, 1985                                             305,000
November 15, 1985                                        315,0
May 15, 1986                                             330,000
November 15, 1986                                        345,000
May 15, 1987                                             360,000
November 15, 1987                                        375,000
May 15, 1988                                             390,000
November 15, 1988                                        405,000
May 15, 1989                                             425,000
November 15, 1989                                        440,000
May 15, 1990                                             460,000
November 15, 1990                                        480,000
May 15, 1991                                             500,00
November 15, 1991                                        520,0
May 15, 1992                                             545,000
November 15, 1992                                        565,000
May 15, 1993                                             590,000
November 15, 1993                                        61500
May 15, 1994                                             640,000
November 15, 1994                                        670,00
May 15, 1995                                             700,000
November 15, 1995                                        730.000
May 15, 1996
November 15, 1996                                        790,0
May 15, 1997                                             8500
November 15, 1997                                        860,000
May 15, 1998                                             89000
November 15, 1998                                         95,00
May 15, 1999                                             975,0
November 15 1999                                        105,000
May 15, 2006                                            1,060,000
November 15, 2000                                       1,5,000
3)05,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                                1%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                              4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           5-1/2%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          7-1/4%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years but                           8%
not more than twenty-three
years before maturity
More than twenty-three years                         8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for the civil works included in Parts A(1) and (3) of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 100,000 or more, and contracts for vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (i)         Bidders for the civil works included in Parts A(1) and (3) of
the Project shall be prequalified pursuant to Part 2.2 of the
Guidelines.
(ii)        The civil works included in Parts A(1) and (3) of the Project
shall be grouped to encourage international competition.
3.    (i)         Contracts for the civil works included in Parts A(2) and B of
the Project, and other contracts for civil works estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent, shall be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and pursuant to the
Borrower's usual procurement, procedures.
(ii)        Vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
and items of equipment, materials and furniture shall be
procured without resort to competitive bidding, provided that
such vehicles or items of equipment, materials or furniture are
procured on a basis of reasonable and competitive procurement
procedures, including but not limited to the solicitation of not
less than three price quotations. .
4.    Contracts for vehicles, equipment, materials and furniture shall be grouped
to the extent practicable to encourage bulk procurement.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
I.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant


﻿24
a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors who wish to apply for domestic preference shal' be
required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. Applicants
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part of the information
for qualification, such information, including details of ownership, as shall be
required to determine whether, according to the classification established by the
Borrower and accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the
preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison
of bids to give effect to such preference. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications, of their eligibility for domestic preference
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for
such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)   With respect to the contracts for civil works included in Part A of
the Project:
(i)         Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to
be prepared a site development plan for each of the national
research centers referred to in Part A of the Project. Each such
plan shall include the details of the land and its use, the physical


﻿25
facilities to be constructed thereat and the estimated costs
related thereto, and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank for its approval each such site development plan.
(ii)        In addition, before bids are invited for any of the civil works
contracts referred to in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   With respect to all contracts for vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   With request to all contracts referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this paragraph:
(i)         Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall
inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.
(ii)        After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank
of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿26
(iii)       The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked or prequalification invited.
(iv)        Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


