Document of
The Worldi Bank
FOR OFrnICAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8240
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
MAE KLONG IRRIGATION PROJECT - MALAIMAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
DECEMBER 11, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regioral Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit Thailand Baht (B)
Appraisal Average:  US$ 1 - B.25
Intervening Years Average:  US$1   B.25
Completion Year Average: US$1 - B.26
ABBREVIATIONS
AMPP        - Automated Maintenance Planning Process
BAAC        - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Co-operatives
DAE         - Department of Agricultural Extension
EMPIRE M&T  - Empire Management and Technology Company Limited
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
FY          - Fiscal Year
HYV         - High Yielding Variety
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ILACO       - International Land Development Const:lti.nts, an
affiliate company of Eurocons-lt
MOAC        - Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
MUV         - Manufacturing Unit Value
O/F         - On-Farm
OFD         - On-Farm Development
OFW         - On-Fanm Works
O&M         - Operation and Maintenance
PCR         - Project Completion Report
PO'LC       - Provincial Office of Land Consolidation
RID         - Royal Irrigation Department
R-O-W       - Right of Way
TPC         - Total Project Cost
WASAM       - Water Allocation Scheduling and Monitoring
WhlUG       - Water Users Group
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL         30
October I - September 30



FOR OFICA  US ONLY
THE WORLD BANKF
Washirngton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Okce of Dtiec-cewatol
Operaton Evluatkm
December 11, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report %n ThaiLand Mae Klong Irrigation
Project - Malaiman Phase I (Twelfth Irrigation Project)
(Loan 2022-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Thailand Mae Klong Irrigation Project -
Malaiman Phase I (Twelfth Irrigation Project) (Loan 2022-TH)" prepared by
the Asia Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othemis be dilbosed without Worl Bank authoriztion.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
MAE KLONG IRIUGATION PROJECT-MAIAIMAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IRRiGATION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .                ...................................................                                        i
Basic Data Sheet ..........................................                                                       ii
Evaluation  Summary    ........................................                                                  iii
Overview    ..............................................                                                          1
General    ...........                     .....................................                               1
Project  Objectives                .....................................                                       1
Appraised  Components  of  the  Project                          ....................                          1
Irrigation  and  Drainage  Systems                       .....................                            1
Institutional  Improvement                     ...........................                               2
Preparation  of  New  Project    ..........................                                               2
Implementation    .........................................                                                    2
Organization            ........................................                                          2
Construction of 1.rigation and Drainage Systems                                         .....             2
Institutional  Improvement    ...........................                                                 3
Preparation  of  New  Projects                     .........................                              4
Project  Costs  and  Disbursements                       ........................                              4
Agricultural  Production    ................................                                                   4
Impact    ............                    .....................................                                5
Bank  Performance              .......................................                                         6
Lessons  Learned    ........................................                                                   6
Table  1:    Key  Production  Aspects  of  the  Project                              ...........                    7
Table  2:    Projected  Prices  for  Rice  and  Sugar    ....                                 .........             8
Borrowe- 's Project Completion Report
Introduction    ..............................................                                                      9
Project  Implementation    ....................................                                                   10
Operation and Maintenance    ..................................                                                   12
Project  Expenditures  and  Disb, :sements                            ....................                        13
Agricultural  Development                    ..................................                                   13
Project  Evaluation    ........................................                                                   15
Conclusions and Recommendations ............................                                                      16
AITACHMENT
1.  Comments from the Borrower                                             .............                          ,, 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
MAE KLONG IRRIGATION PROJECT-MAIAIMAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Mae Klong
Irrigation Project-Malaiman Phase I (Twelfth Irrigation Project)
Prcject in Thailand, for wnich Loan 2022-TH in the amount of US$57.0
million was approved on June 25, 1981. The loan was closed on June
30, 1988; the final disbursement took place or. December 31, 1989.
There were three cancellations of unused parts of loan with the final
cancellation on January 18, 1989 totalling US$22.6 million.
The Borrower's PCR was prepared by International Land
Development Consultants (ILACO) in association with Empire M&T Co.
Ltd., under a contract from the Government of Thailand. The Basic
Data Sheet, Evaluation Summary, and Overview were prepared by the Bank
(AS2AG).
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they
are attached to the Report.



THAILAND
KAE KRL0G IRURIATION FR00CT-KAIAlMAN PHRE I
(TWEtLFT IIRBIr^ION FWOJRCT)
(1LOAI 2027 T05
6BU.ALt               At-1  or             ctu-t  at of
4MUA0~&06  ~h1~iAL9f 0
Ftpt ~     ~      oz apt c.uata(US  pi1t1p.3 110^ 0                   69 3
Isar.iaao,sosl(018  nhtIcosOT    57s 0                 7        ~           60 4
]g ffird osapoval                               6,20/01
Dat' obv 'eOt eooott.          4/30/08             6/30/0014 
ProsottlOn Tthn co.osl..tdIU 100 0                690;,16 0
CIpalnO  data   6,30/07         6,30,88                 ~~~~1.16 0
een9ettosoi   oassf rcThtnl(tl    73 0               7 '                    11 '
*.onoJ.t part  osost.nacor
Sos of ditart
batPfiPItI,.1100v71       57' 200             57 200
.CMtWjATIV1 DISAUSIM
LFnz    li                rfink m      ma   m2aL
H   S-  S *     at5St          24 0 637 5  53 0  2S 1  '4 22 46 3
o-  f  fiattl 4j      l2a2 p    SA*stl                12/Tb0
(.taff weeks)
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  TOTAL
IdonfL If lot ito/
Frop ..tion.           3  S1 3   1 8         2                                              53.6
Apprtl..1                             6 1                                                       6.1
N7.SttiinoOs                          9 5                                                       9.5
S.p-1.s-on                              4  17 5  22 5  13 6   7 3  12 5  15 1  11.4  100.7
Oth.,                                   6           1 2       2                                 1.9
S.btot.1                .3  51.3  18.4 17.7  23.?  131.    7.3  12.5  13.5  11.4  171.9
Data     No  of  KIai-days Spocilliozatio.   Performoane             Typo of
AL&ALRD          (--        .esr                    .... -AWi rn r  atios      T-N   o9-bInst
7d.ot.tfietotIo, 08/77
FrAo-TLtion     197t'980
AO .. maL         8/09/00       3           30    A Fn te
18W17gZh                  --         -AL
iws.al  I~  9/30/85         5        I0         ho 1,5(1 T          1          2  
5 1/38/82      3          57          ..               1.          2
0'U/S/        2          44    A P                    2           2         iT
24a7i-IQ18fl.i  t12/01/l3      2          '6 Ala   F                  t            I
1 .    0/12/8      465    A(2)  Pt                           2 P,
lmarialvtn.      1/10/0t6       3           6    4130 Vs               2            2        R
Sunoi.ion ^  IsUs66     A          72    AM2  Enf2l            t            t 
°10/6/D7       3          27    A                      2n(2        2         0
Sumazi.igala   6/02/08          2          2S    1ns21                  2           2         0
Sug70rs7talontt
AWMILL"           -ZL          ,1
Fiscal 57sar of b,ornor             DOtbar  S .r Sgpbor lo0
ant    of  parsons,  ( abbr.yIaeIonI    8*1t  (01     _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
9&i&     -         Us$l.00- 
D£8UBIALILZULAIOZUO.. t...........    0US05  00 .   25- 00
Ggp.ad.oss  0*00 *V-fAro               US$1 00  a  26 00
Fotlos-or, projoct
On          to        to.)
iAta BoArd amurovyl
A/  Of  the  opproiosd  lont n     ot  (US$  S7.0   illion).  thoro  cro  thr6.
,analIlations totalltng USS 22 6 olllon leavtng anot dlsburssmont of
US$ 34.6 lillion.
t/ Projoot area aL  reduofd fror 27.000 ha to 22.000 ho at completion duo  to
foatsra refusal to grant Rtigst-fWay.
A       9/ A - arlatoaurit  te En - oconooot; En  _-sitoor: I - inatitttona wpacialist.
I' 1 _ problon frea or  oor oroblom. 2 - odorote pV. blo, and 3 - -jor
problom.
0/ 1 - I tro.ts8; 2 - stationsary; 3 - detoriorating.
VI dn"81ofmos imat; P - fi- tnsoLl; 8 - nAoeorlal; T - technical;
and 0 - other.



- :iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
MAE KLONG IRRIGATION PROJECT-MALAIMAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IPRIGATION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Mae Klong Irrigation Project-Malaiman Phase I (Twelfth Irrigation
Project) purpose was to improve and expand irrigation facilities. This, in
turn, was expected to increase production and improve socio-economic
conditions of about 44,000 people living on some 27,000 ha of land on the left
bank of the Mae Klong river in the Malaiman area (approximately 100 km west of
Bangkok). The project comprised rehabilitat4on and expansion of the existing
irrigation infrastructure, construction of new irrigation facilities,
improvement of Operation and Maintenance, preparation for future irrigation
projects and improvement of RID's operationial capability.
Implementation
2.    Loan 2022-TH for US$ 57.0 million was signed August 13, 1981 and became
effective November 11, 1981. At appraisal, it was anticipated that the
project would be completed by June 30, 1986 and that disbursements would be
completed by June 30, 1987. However, the Loan Closing Date was extended to
June 30, 1988 and disbursements continued to December 31, 1988.
Implementation took about two years longer than appraised due to an
unanticipated need to survey part of the area; repeat.ed modifications of
designs for drainage and on-farm works (OFW); protracted procurement
procedures; contractors' poor organization and inefficient construction
procedures; poor condition of RID's equipment; cash flow problems; inclement
weather during long stretches of the 1986 wet season; and protracted
negotiations with farmers on Right of W,ay (R-O-W) acquisition for on-farm
(O/F) ditcbes and drains.
3.    In addition to delays in project completion, the project area was
reduced by about 5,000 ha due to some farmers' lack of cooperation. Other
than that implementation quality was satisfactory.
P;oject Costs and Disbursements
4.    Total cost of the project was appraised in 1981 at US$115.0 million with
a foreign currency component of US$57.0 million. As a result of the slow
implementation start-up, disbursements did not commence until the second
project year (IBRD FY 1982) and lagged behind the appraised disbursement
schedule by 55-75%. Upon RID's and MOF's request the Bank cancelled a total



- iv -
of US$2^ 6 million from pruceeds under the loan ($19.0 million on June 17,
1987; $3.9 million on August 9, 1988 and $0.6 million on January 18, 1989).
By loan closure date (June 1988), only US$34.4 million (or 60.4% of the
original loan) had been disbursed.
5.    The total project cost (TPC) amounted to US$79.7 million or about 69.3%
of the appraisal estim-te of US$115.0 million.  The reason for the reduction
in TPC stems both from a 25% devaluation of Thai currency which reduced the
TPC in U3$ equivalent and a reduction in the project area (paras. 7, 8 and 11
of the Overview).
Results
6.    By loan closure construction of targeted main canals, lateral,
sublateral canals and service roads vas completed; the construction,
improvement and enlargement of drains and the construction of on-farm
development (OFD) for 22,000 ha in the West Malaiman area was completed. The
project increased wet and dry sea,on rice and sugar production. As a result
farm incomes rose and demand foi labor increased significantly.
7.    Improvements in RID's institutional capa Ality were achieved by
strengthening the dialogue between field and office staff, by .he introduction
of computerized water scheduling and monitoring (WASAM), by the introduction
of computerized automated maintenance planning (AMPP), by the provision of
mobile training units, and by the establishment of Working Committees for
irrigators and RID at Anphoe (District) level. However, no new projects were
prepared due to Ministry of Finance's (MOF) objection to use proceeds from
this loan for that purpose.
Sustainability
8.    The project ERR was estimated at 23% at appraisal, based on Fall 1981
Commodity Price Forecast data. The Borrower's PCR re-estimates the ERR at
11%, based on Fall 1987 Commodity Price Forecast data and on adjusted costs to
September 1987. The ERR reduction from the appraisal estimate of 23% to 11%
was due to a delay in the start-up of benefit flows, lower economic prices of
paddy; and to lower incremental production. Substituting the latest
(September 1988) Commodity Price Forecasts, the ERR was further reduced to
7.2%.
Lessons Learned
9.    There are three important lessons learned from this project:  (1) the
need to ensure an early participation of benefitting farmers in the planning
process; (2) implementation of similar projects should be planned for longer
periods (i.e. 7 to 8 years rather than 5 years); (3) the water management
system (WASAM) and automated maintenance planning (AMPP), implemented in this
project should be expanded to similar projects throughout the country.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THA ILAND
MAF KLONG IRRIGATION PROJECT-MALAIMAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IRRIGi ION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
OVERVIEW
General
1.    This Overview is based on the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Mae
Klonig Irrigation Project-Malaiman Phase I (Irrigation Project XII) prepared by
International Land Development Consultants (ILACO) in association with Empire
M&T Co. Ltd., under a contract from the Government of Thailand. It also draws
on the Loan Agreement, the Bank's Appraisal Report, supervision mission
reports, correspondence with the Borrower, and internal memoranda in Bank
files.
Project Obiectives
2.    Irrigation Project XII was desig-,ed to assist the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) in its continuing program to improve and expand Thailand's
irrigation facilities aiming to raise farm incomes through increased cropping
intensities and yields for about 27,000 ha of paddy land directly benefitting
about 44,000 people. This was to be achieved by construction of main canals,
lateral, sublateral canals and service roads. It also included construction,
improvement and enlargement of drains, construction of on-farm development
(OFD) in West Malaiman area, and improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M).
fhe project was expected to increase agricultural and agriculture-related
employment opportunities and income through generating demand for additional
labor which will benefit 13,000 landless agricultural people living in the
project area. The project was also expect to provide for the preparation of
future irrigation proj>.Icts, and further improve RID's operational capability
through improvements in RID's operational complex. Finallv the project was
expected to lead to an increase in foreign exchange earningL through an
increase in the production of exportable commodities (i.e. rice and sugar).
Appraised Components of the Project
3.    Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  The main features of this component
were:
3.1 construction of 19 km of main canals and service roads;
3.2 construction of 164 km of lateral and sublateral canals and
service roads;
3.3 improvement and enlargement of 70 km of main and secondary drains
and construction of 130 km of new secondary drains; and
3.4 on-farm development including tertiary systems (tertiary canals,



- 2 -
drains and farm roads) for a total area of 27,000 ha with
turnouts to areas of (about) 4 ha each.
4.    Institutional Improvement.  This component provides for strengthened
collaboration within RID mainly through staff training and some increases in
staff.
5.    Preparation of New Project.  The main features of this component were:
5.1 selection of potential projects and preparatory studies;
5.2 preparation of updated feasibility studies of 2 earlier selected
projects in Northern Thailand (the Mae Yom and Mae Kok Projects)
covering 90,000 and 20,000 ha respectively;
5.3 preparation of detailed designs and contract documents for the
dams and for the initial stages of the irrigation system of the
Mae Yom and Mae Kok projects (subject tc viable ERRs as
determined under paragraph 5.2). Activities might also include
detailed design of medium scale and small scale irrigation
schemes;
5.4 baseline surveys of selected potential projects.
Implementation
6.    Oraanization.  The implementation of the proiect was under the
responsibility of the RID of the MOAC while agricultural supporting services
were carried out by other departments and divisions of the MOAC (i.e. DAE,
rice 'ivision) and an institutional lender such as BAAC. Within RID's
Depar nt, the Deputy Director General for construction and a seiiior RID
engineer from the Greater Mae Klong Irrigation Project acted respectively as
Project Director and Project Manager for this project. In addition, a Project
Engineer was appointed to coordinate field operations in the project area. An
association of consultants (paragraph 1) assisted the Project Management in
design a.d construction supervision of the different project components.
7.    Organizational arrangements were generally satisfactory.  The Project
Director, Project Manager and Project Engineer were all appointed as planned
at appraisal. All positions were incorporated into a project organization
structure with clear divisions of authority. The Project Manager was
responsible for all aspects of project implementation and the Project Director
coordinated activities of functional divisions within RID, other government
agencies and consultants. This system, in contrast to earlier versions,
contributed to a clearer definition of responsibilities for all parties
concerned and improved the quality and timing of project implementation. It
also strengthened both senior and mid-level management.
8.    Construction of Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  The following
components have been implemented at a, generally, satisfactory quality:
(the figures in between brackets indicate appraised quantities)
8.1 construction of 18.0 km (19 km) of main canali and service roads;
8.2 construction of 169.0 km (164 km) of lateral and sublateral
canals and service roads;



-3-
8.3 improvement and enlargement of 76.0 km (70 km) of main and
secondary drains and construction of 145 km (130 km) of new
secondary drains;
8.4 construction of OFW (tertiary canals, drains and roads) covering
an irrigable area of 22,000 ha (27,000 ha).
9.    It was anticipated at appraisal that the project would be completed in
five years, e.g. by June 30, 1986, and that the loan would be closed on June
30, 1987. Actually, the Loan Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1988 and
disbursements continued until December 31, 1988. The longer than expected
implementation period was due mainly to: (i) time required to survey part of
the area which was covered by inadequate aerial photography and missing
benchmarks (PCR Section 2.2.2); (ii) repeated modifications of designs of
drainage and on-farm works (PCP. Section 2.2.4); (iMi) protracted procurement
procedures (PCR Sections 2.4 and 2.6); (iv) poor organization of contractors
and inefficient construction procedures (PCR SectiL.s 2.4 and 2.6); (v) poor
condition of equipment (PCR Section 2.4); (vi) cash flow problems (PCR Section
2.4); (vii) inclement weather during long stretches of the 1986 wet season
(PCR Section 2.4.2); and (viii) protracted negotiations with farmers on R-0-W
acquisition for 0/F ditches and drains (PCR Sections 2.2.4 and 2.9).
10.   Institutional ImRrovement.
(a)   An important improvement in RID's institutional capability was the
establishment of a feed-back mechanism from the field to the design office.
By institutionalizing regular contacts between construction supervisors and
designers and between 0&M personnel and designers, field personnel were able
to articulate to designers problems they had encountered either during
construction or during operation. Designers, on their part, had an
opportunity to analyze er -nuntered problems and ascertain implications upon
system design. For examp,e, turnout gates, which presented operational
problems in many (if not most) RID's projects, were re-designed arid improved
in response to O&M comments.
(b)   A second important improvement 4.n RID's operational capability was
achieved through the introduction of computerized water scheduling and
mcnitoring. By adapting software to local needs, the Consultant developed
daily/weekly delivery schedules (WASAM) for mains and laterals of the
irrigation system, down to tertiary turnouts. These were based on gross
consumptive use requirements and present a breakthrough in RID's attempts to
match water supplies with demands. (The same system could be used to schedule
deliv.zries from tertiaries to individual and/or groups of farms).
Computerized monitoring of programmed schedules was introduced and results
(monthly monitoring graphs) were discussed by the O&M staff of each Zone.
(c)   A third improvement in RID's maintenance capability was &chieved by the
Consultant's introduction of a computerized, automated maintenance planning
process (AMPP). This program served as an incentive to RID's 0&K staff to
first critically review all various maintenance activities, classify them in
accordance with required frequencies to sustain system performance and finally
plan activities in proper sequence and frequency. (It should be noted that RID
decided recently to adapt and employ programs developed for this project
nationwide.)



- 4 -
(d)   A fourth improvement in RID's capability concerned training of
irrigators. It was achieved by providing fully equipped mobile training units
(e.g. audio/v4.sual aids, training booklets, irrigation calendars, and various
other training materials).
(e)   The project also improved RID's coordination capability with irrigators
by establishing Working Committees at Amphoe (District) level. These
committees helped coordinate activities of different agencies in forming and
training of Water User's Groups (WUG) in newly developed area. The Committees
also provided agricultural guides -- in addition to that provided by
Provincial Committees for Land Consolidation (POLC).
11.   Preparation of New Projects.   Crop Diversification Study Onl di1e West
Bank of the Chao Phya. Upon the request of NOAC, Loan 2022-TH financed a
major identification and prefeasibility study by t:e Project Consultant on
crop diversification on the West Bank of the Chao Phya. The study found
little potential for dry-footed field crops (such as soybean, cotton and
mungbean) or exportable fruits and vegetables due to limiting soil
capabilities, but some potential for fruits and vegetables for local
consumption, for combined aqua-rice culture (particularly fresh-water prawns)
and for growing of orchids. In view of rapid deterioration of water quality
selective, uncoordinated, flood control in parts of the basin (exacerbating
floods in other parts), and already experieu.ced water shor,ages, the study
recommended a follow-up re-assessment of water management in the Mae Klong and
Chao Phya basins and the zoning of the area for various economic activities.
12.   However, neither these nor additional studies were carried out under
this project because of MOF's objection to use proceeds from this'loan for
further project preparation or follow-up studies.
Project Costs and Disbursements
13.   The appraised cost of the project was US$115.0 million, with a foreign
currency component of US$57.0 million. By loan closure (June 1988) the actual
total project cost (TPC) was US$ 79.7 million and total disbursements under
the loan aggregated US$34.4 million. Factors that contributed to the
reduct.on in TPC were:  (a) service area reduction (O/F development covered
only 22,000 ha instead of an appraised area of 27,000 ha); and (b) a decline
in the value of the Thai currency which resulted in a 25% devaluation and
which reduced the TPC in US$ equivalent. Loan disbursements commenced during
the second project year (IBRD FY 1982), but lagged behind the appraised
disbursement schedule by 55-75%. Upon RID's and MOF's request the Bank
cancelled a total of US$22.6 million from proceeds under the loan ($19.0
million on June 17, 1987; $3.0 million on August 9, 1988; $0.6 million on
January 18, 1989).
Agricultural Production
14.   The reassessed agricultural potential of the project at loan closure was
as follows. Of the 22,000 ha where O/F facilities were provided, cropping



- 5 -
intensities are now expected to reach 172% at full development (178%)1;
however, yields are expected to exceed appraisal estimates2. Yield of local
transplant wet season rice recorded at appraisal as 1.7 ton/ha, was 2.5 ton/ha
in 1987 and is expected to further increase at full development3 by about 30%
to 3.3 ton/ha compared to an appraised target yield of 3.0 ton/ha. Yield of
HYVs wet season rice4 was 3.4 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to increase at
full development to 4.1 ton/ha compared to an appraised target yield of 3.5
ton/ha. Yield of HYVs dry season rice in flooded areas increased from 2.8
ton/ha at appraisal tC 3.9 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to increase to 4.5
ton/ha at full development compared to an appraised target yield of 3.2
ton/ha. Yield of HYVs dry season rice5 in non-flooded areas was 3.8 ton/ha in
1987 and is expected to increase at full development to 4.2 ton/ha compared to
an appraised target yield .f 4.0 ton/ha. Yield of sugar recorded at appraisal
as 35.0 ton/ha was 60 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to increase to 80.0
ton/ha at full development. At appraisal, sugar was not expected to be
planted under the project.
ImRact
15.   The major impact of the project was an increase in rice production (both
wet and dry season) and sugar production through increased yield, expanded
areas and increased intensities primarily by increasing cropped areas during
the dry season. kTable 1, page 7) This led to an increase in faim incomes.
At full development, the annval net incremental farm income is expected to be
approximately 4,400 Baht per hectare. As a consequence of these developments,
labor requirements and wages also increased. Labor and wages are expected to
increase at full development by 30 workdays/hectare and between 5'to 10
Baht/workday respectively. The project provided significant improvements in
water management and in improved inter-departmental cooperation within RID and
in improved contacts with irrigators. Mainly because of MOF's objection to
use this loan for studies, no new projects were prepared under this loan.
Finally, the increase in the production of exportable commodities (i.e. rice
and sugar) also led to an increase in foreign exchange earnings. From 1982-
1986 Thailand's rice exports had increased about 14.2%.
16.   The appraisal report estimated the project ERR at 23% based on Fall 1981
Commodity Price Forecast data. The Borrower's PCR re-estimated the ERR at
11%, based on Fall 1987 Commodity Price Forecast data (in 1985 constant US
1 the figure indicates the amount expected at appraisal
2 Yield figures for 1987 are based on averages of actual data obtained from
field observations and various other sources (RID Mae Klong Project, Agricultural
Extension Service); Yield figures for 1988 and beyond are projections.
3 The appraised target yields were to be reached at full development - in
the sixth year after completion of project works or in 1994
4 introduced with the project
s also introduced with the project



- 6 -
Dollars) and on adjusted costs to September 1987. Major factors contributing
to the reduction of ERR from the appraisal estimate are: (a) benefits started
accruing only in the sixth year of the project instead of the second year as
assumed at appraisal; (b) considerably lower economic prices of paddy; (c) an
overestimation of incremental production.(PCR Section 6)
17.   The Bank reassessed the ERR as 7.2% based on same production projections
as given in the PCR but substituting the latest (September 1988) Commodity
Price Forecasts for the earlier (1987) forecast used in the PCR.(table 2, page
8) This substitution, of a yet lower forecast, dropped the ERR from 11% to
7.2%.
Bank Performance
18.   The Bank dealt adequately with some iscues at appraisal but not with
all. Thus: (i) the time estimated for implementation was too short; (ii) the
economic assumptions were overly optimistic and thus resulted in overstating
the project ERR; (iii) there was a lack of economists during supervision and
hence little attention was given during supervision to an actual reduction in
economic benefits; (iv) the Bank did not insist that RID obtain farmers'
cooperation before the actual construction of O/F system, and as a result
delays occurred during implementation.
Lessons Learned
19.   R-O-W problem which stemmed from farmers' unwillingness to yield land
access for farm ditches and drains was primarily due to a lack of early,
effective contacts between RID and future irrigation users. This problem
resulted in a delay and a reduction of OFD and delayed derivation of benefits.
Attention should therefore be given to involving the benefitting farm
population in project preparation allowing them to articulate their legitimate
expectations from irrigation. Based on these discussions RID should be able
to appropriately plan the project and reach appraised project objectives.
20.   With hindsight, it is evident that the appraised implementation schedule
of 5 years was far too optimistic. The bank should have anticipated the
likelihood of shortcomings common to other projects implemented by RID at
appraisal (i.e. delays in awarding contracts, protracted negotiations for R-0-
W, etc.). Implementation of similar schemes should be planned for longer
periods of time (i.e. 7 to 8 years).
21.   Another important lesson learned concerns the water management system
and maintenance planning. RID should consider expanding the knowledge gained
from the improved water management system (WASAM) and from automated
maintenance planning (AMPP) by implementing these systems which already had a
positive impact on this project to other similar developments throughout
Thailana.



-7-
TABLE 1: KEY PRODUCTION ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
Actual/Anti-
cipated at
1981        Appraisal    Full Agric.   Percent of
Situation   Estimates1   Davelopment   Appraisal
2Eorped Area (ha)
Paddy                       26,000.0    45,500.0         34,600.0         76.0
Sugar                          900.0          -           3,300.0           -
Cropping intensities (Z)         100.0        178.0           172.0         96.6
Yields (ton/ha)
Local transplant                  1.7         3.0             3.3        110.0
wet season rice
HYVs wet season rice2              -          3.5             4.1        117.1
HYVs dry season rice3             2.8         3.2             4.5        140.6
HYVs dry season rice               -          4.0             4.2        105.0
Sugar                           35.0           -             80.0           -
1 The appraised target yields were to be reached at full development - in
the sixth year after completion of project works or in 1994.
2 The numbers used here are the average of transplanted and broadcasted HYV
wet season rice yields.
3 in flooded area



-8-
TABLE 2: PROJECTED PRICES FOR RICE AND SUGAR
(in 1985 constant US Dollars)
RICE                                SUGAR
Price Forecast                        Price Forecast
Years          Sept. 1987    Sept. 1988              Sept. 1987    Sept. 1988
(US Dollars per ton)
1987              169            177                    123            115
1988              175            22c                    175            240
1989              182            198                    210            268
1990              193            165                    225            300
1995              212            173                    242            224
2000              216            166                    242            254
(F.O.B Bangkok, 5% broken, export-quality Thai white rice)
I.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
MAE KLONG IRRIGATION PROJECT-MALAIIAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Introduction
The Mae Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman Phase I
was implemented during the period 1981-1988 and will actually
be fully implemented in 1989.   It was the second large scale
agricultural development project in the Mae Klong Basin
following similar agricultural developments on the Right Bank
and in the Chao Phya Basin.
Approximately 53.5% of the Project was financed by
the Royal Thai Government, while for the other 46.5% a loan
from the World Bank (IBRD Loan 2022-TH) was obtained.
The objectives of the Project i.e. increase of the
wet-season rice yields, the extension of the dry-season cropped
area, the creation of possibilities for agricultural
diversification and the improvement of rural employment
opportunities, have been fully achieved.
Unlike the Chao Phya Basin, where irrigation water is
not sufficient for the dry season irrigation af the entire
area, the Greater Mae Klong Irrigation Project in the Mae Klong
Basin, of which the Hae Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman
Phase I is a part, to date receives an adequate water supply in
the dry season. However, it should be understood that in view
of the expansion of the area under irrigation and the fact that
water from the two reservoir dams (the Srinagarind dam and Kao
Laem dam) is also being diverted to the Chao Phya West Bank and
Bangkok Metropolitan, much attention should be paid to improve
irrigation efficiencies.
The construction of tertiary irrigation, drainage and
road facilities has improved crop-growing conditions to such an
extent that broadcasting and transplanting of local rice
varieties has been almost entirely replaced by transplanting
and nowadays even broadcasting of pre-germinated seed of modern
rice varieties.   Dry-season cropping in the project area has
increased tremendously. As a consequence of these developments,
labour requirements increased significantly and labour wages
followed suit.   Because of the necessity to complete certain
farm activities in a short period of time in the double
cropping   system   (harvesting,   land   preparation   and
transplanting), the fact that the labour requirements during
these periods could not be fully met and the resulting high
labour wages, farmers turned to mechanized land preparation and
broadcasting of pre-germinated seed.
Note;
This Summary is extracted from the lengthy report prepared
by the consultants Ilaco in Association with Empire M. & T. Co. Ltd.
for the Royal Irrigation Department. Copies are on file at the
Operations Evaluation Department are are available on request.



- 10 -
Project implementation
In the Mae Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman Phase
I the following main components have been implemented (the
figures between brackets indicate the amounts at appraisal):
(M)    construction of 18.0 km (19 km) of existing main canals
and service roadst
(ii)    construction of 169.0 km (164 km) of lateral and sub
lateral canals and service roads;
(iii)   improvement and enlargement of 76.0 km (70 km) of main
and secondary drains and construction of 145 km (130
km) of new secondary drains;
(iv)    construction of on-farm works (tertiary canals, drains
and roads) covering an irrigable area of 22,000 ha
(27,000 ha).
A comparison between the planned implementation
schedule at appraisal and the actual implementation schedule is
shown in Figure 1.1.
The Project was implemented under the responsibility
of the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Co-operatives (NOAC).  A Project Manager was
appointed, who reported to RID's Deputy Director General for
Construction.  An association of consultants assisted the
Project Management in the implementation of the different
project components.   In actual fact the same Project Manager
and Consultants were involved in this Project as in the Mae
Klong Right Bank Irrigation Project, which was simultaneously
being developed. This made it poerible to set up an efficient
management team to coordinate activities in both projects.
Topographical surveys and cadastral surveys for the
design of the tertiary system were based on 1:4,000 scale
aerial photographs and executed by respectively RID's Survey
Division and the Land Department.   Surveys  of the new
distribution system were carried out by local survey
contractors. This was supervised by the Consultants, who were
responsible for all design work in this Project.
The design work of the main and secondary irrigation
and drainage system was done by Consultants, who used the same
Design Office which was established for the Mae Klonq Right
Bank Irrigation Project for this purpose.
Main features of the design of-the supply system were
a raise of capacity to 1.6 and 1.5 l/s.ha for main and lateral
canals respectively, incorporation of additional structures to
raise and control the water levels and allow for full command
of the cowmand areas even under low supply conditions ar.d for
better operation.
The lay-out and capacity of the drainage system was
reviewed, taking into account the need for cross drainage
through the project area of drainage water from thd western
catchment areas.   Additional cross drainage structures were



ZImplementation sohedule of Mae MXon, Irrigation ProJeot "alaiian Phase I
CIRD9 loan 2922-TH)
Vear    Quantity                                                                        .
1991   1982  1983   1984   1985   1996   1987   1988   1989
Description    Aupra- Aotual
sal
Engineerins
amo _2e ~                   a..m Xm    8n k -............ ------------
_@*oB   d    Xere^A  r                )   .   .        _ | _   _    .  .....~............... ................... 
kmoiin   aB ri 1ce1w4o.                                          -" e:.:::::::::......   .
Construction
IL  um, an haftemwsad110
a1 Mae w  "    bek                            k                - a           mem               .l"
. r--l .. ' j ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... ............. ..... ..... 
ee|_e fE es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.e -.-.-.........  ................                                   ............. ......  ......--
m in           am km                                          I ,  
Equipment                                                                    AS F  | |                     I
note
_ implementation schedule at appraisal
.        .4 actual implemeentation schedule
Fivure 1.1



- 12 -
designed in the IL main canal for this purpose.   Further, a
flood protection dike in East Malaiman was constructed so as to
protect the on-farm works in that area.
The designed tertiary system is of the so zalled
'extensive land consolidation' type (Type B) i.e. the ditches,
roads and drains follow the existing cadastral boundaries.
Hence, no reallocation of plots ansi no land levelling was
allowed for.   However, as  100% of the  farmers had to be
connected to the water supply, drainags and road &ystem, it can
still be considered an intensive development .  Farmers were
involved in an early stage of the design.   In total about
22,400 ha were designed by the Consultants Design office. The
on-farm designs for sugarcane areas were somewhat adapted to
take care to the specific needs in those areas.
The equipment and materials procured under the Mae
Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman Phase I included
Construction and O&M equipment for respectively USS 952,470.-
-and USS 902,380.-.
At appraisal, project implementation was estimated to
take six years.   However,  due to time consriing tendering
procedures, obstructing farmers, national budget limitations
and considerable delays in some civil works and OFD contracts,
the civil and on-farm components could not be completed in
time. Consequently, the Project and the LoaF had to be extended
with one year i.e. from June 30, 1987 to June 30, 1988.
The construction of civil works was mostly done by
contractors and a minor part by Force Account (some drains).
The quality was generally good.
The construction of on-farm facilities was done by
Contract, in total 22,000 ha and will be completed in 1989.
The progress and quality was at first, disappointing in West
Malaiman due to inexperience of project staff with this type of
work. Moreover, the short construction time available required
accurate planning of work.   Consultants extensively trained
inspection staff to improve the quality while the Project
Management and contractors were assisted in scheduling of the
work. In later years the quality improved considerable.
The Consultants time input under the Project was
spent on design, assistance to the Project Management in the
implementation, assistance to the Regional 0&M Office in
operation and MaintenEance, and assistance to the Project
Planning Division (Economic Branch) in Monitoring and
Evaluation of the Project.
Oopeation and Maintenance
A very important part of the project activities
included the establishment and implementation of improved 0&N
practices at farm level and at project level from the very
beginning of the Project.



_ 13 -
The integrated development approach which was
followed, in which a very close co-operation and interaction
between design, construction, O&M and economic monitoring and
evaluation was strived after, proved to be of great value for
the development of the area.   An important aspect of this
component was the training of RID field staff and the farmers
in the proper use of the rehabilitated and newly constructed
irrigation and drainage systems.   To this end, also mobile
training units were developed and equipped with adequate
hardware and software, e.g. visual/audio visual aids as
training booklets,  irrigation calendars,  films, slides sounc
series, etc.  Another important step taken, to come to highor
irrigation efficiencies,  was the development of a Water
Allocation  Scheduling  and  Monitoring  (WaSAJI)  programme.
Maintenance  activities  were  analysed  and  an  Automated
Maintenance Planning Process (AMPP) programme, to structure the
mmaii enance process, was developed.
Project expenditures and disbursements
The total project cost will reach at completion in
1989 an estimated amount of Baht 1,887.3 million or USS 75.5
million equivalent (1988 conversion rate).  This total is some
ASt under the estimate made at the time of appraisal (1979) and
is mainly due to the fact that the actual total area of on-farm
development implemented was 22,000 ha instead of 27,00o ha
anticipated at appraisal, even though the unit --ate for OFD
construction was higher than anticipated.   It was also partly
caused by the change in exchange rate from A 20 per US$ in 1981
to p 25 - p 26 per US$ during the period 1985/1988.
The original Agreement between the Government of
Thailand and the International Bank of Reconstruction and
Development was based on a Loan of US$ 57.0 million.  This
figure was reduced in 1987 to US$ 38.0 million. The estimated
final disbursements will, however, only reach a total of some
US$ 35.1 million. The main reason for the considerably lower
loan disbursements is that some construction work has been
carried out under force account instead of on contract.  For
force account work no disbursement was included in the loan.
Moreover as mentioned in the previous paragraph less on-farm
implementation was carried out and considerable difference in
exchange rates have also caused the disbursements to be less
than anticipated at appraisal.
Agricultural development
Monitoring of agricultural development, including the
establishment of a set of detailed baseline data in the Mae
Rlong Right Bank irrigation project area was initially done in
Close co-operation with the Economic Branch of RID's Project
Planning Division. As a result of Consultant's recommendations
to establish an in-house Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, all
project benefit monitoring and evaluation activities since 1985
have been carried out in co-ordination with RID's Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Branch. All M&E activities have been



14 -
carried out in close co-Lperation with project staff and .he
Consultants.   Duo to dQ1 .ys in tho implementation the first
actual monitoring activities, covering initially only small
implemented areas, started in 1984.
Cropping intensities in the implemented areas went up
in two to three years from 105% to at least l70180% calculated
for the total OFD area (rice and sugareeno).  For rice areas in
particular, the dry season cropping intensity went up from some
5% to almost 85%.  Wet season rice intensities may drop in the
near future to 95% because of still existing flooding problems
in small parts of East 14alaiean.
No information existsE on othei crops than rice and
sugarcane.  In case farmers "till start to grow more vegetables
in the near future, the cropping inteisity will increase even
further.
To solve the problem with respect to the Increase in
the demand for farm labour due to increased cropping intensity
and strict irrigation schedules, farmers are changing their
cultivation practices.   Land preparation  activities are at
present increasingly mechanized with small two-wheel tractors.
Besides mechanized  land preparation, the introduction of
mechanized threshing has also been generally accepted.   The
same holds true  for small motorized  spraying  equipment.
Moreover farmers are changing from the very labour intensive
transplanting to broadcasting. of rice. Because of the improved
water management conditions (proper supply of irrigation water
and an adequate drainage system) several farmers switched to
broadcasting of pre-germinated seed.  It is, however, expected
that the majority of the farmers  ui.l continue to transplant
part of the rice crop because of the severe weed problems in
broadcasted rice fields, and because East Halaiman still has a
flooding problem in some parts.
Initially the paddy yieldo increased considerably in
the newly ilplemented OFD areas. However, the rather low paddy
prices have not been an incentive to invest Ln extra labour for
proper crop cultivation practices and/or in the application of
extra ao':o-chemicals.  Consequently, yields showed a decreasing
trend in 1985 and 1986.   B-cent price increases have shown
immediate improvements in the paddy as well as in the sugarcane
yields. The projected yield .argets, as given in the Appraisal
Report, have been reached by the farmers in the project area in
a much shorter period than originally foreseen.
Assuming that paddy and cane prices will remain at
fair levels, the stage of full development can be reached by
9900.  For paddy this means Vi!Slds for transplanted HYV of 4.3
ton/ha In the Wet seasont and 4.5 ton/ha in the dry season,  For
broadcasted HYV the expected yields are respectively 3.8 and
4.2 ton/ha.
m4onitoring results showed that the yields which can
be expected without project implementation would be higher than
forecasted in the Appraisal Report.   For details on actual
recorded and projected yields for paddy and sugarcane reference
is made to Table 4.3.



- 15 -
Production toRts have been influenced by the changes
in cultivation  practices  but  in particular also  by the
relatively low farmgate prices of paddy and cane.  To keep the
Net Value of Production  (NVP) as high as possible  farm,ers
reduced labour costs and the use of agro-chemicals.
Trends in farm -ate pr<ices between 1980/81 and
1985/86 have had a neeative  effect on net farm incomes.
Although the projected paddy and cane farmgate prices for 1990-
2010 (based on WB commodity price forecasts for the year 2000)
are better than the prices in recent years, they cannot be
compared with the price projections used in the Appraisal
Report0  A projected economic paddy price at present and upto
the year 2010 of )A 3,570/ton, compared with a farm ate price of
X1 6,900/ton forecasted in 1979 will have an important effect on
the viability of the Project as a whole.
Project evaluation
Several importan1t facts have influenced the
feasibility of this Project in a rather negative way.. The most
important one is the delay in the implementation of OFE works.
The fact that the first and relatively small areas had been
completed only in 1993 and not in 1982 as foreseen during the
appraisal and that the total project area can benefit from the
new irrigation and drainage infrastructure only in 1990 instead
of 1987, has reduced the rate of return considerably.
The Project also appeared to be quite sensitive to
the rather low prices of paddy and sugarcane.   The economic
analyses, however, also indicated that the project has been
less sensitive to increases of up to 20% higher investments or
changes of plus or minus 1t% in yields. Summarizing it can be
said that the feasibility of the Project (ERR    11%), on the
basis of conditions of today, is considerably lower than the
calculated 23% from the Appraisal Report.  Without delays in
implementation the ERR would have been 15%, calculated on the
basis of prices used in 1979 the result would be 18%.  Also
important is that the differences between with and without
project implementation have proved to be less than expected.
However, despite all these facts, the conclusion must be that,
under present 1988 conditions, the outcome of the economic
analysis is good and probably better than many other and
Comparable projects, even when the production of high value
crops such as vegetables in the project area in the near future
is not taken into account.



_ 16 -
CONOLUUZOU miND zCOiaMIiTXaoiNS
The Mae Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman Phase I,
turned out to be a successful large scale irrigation project.
Not only in terms of economics, but also in terms of farmer's
co-operation and participation. In an area of about 22,000 ha
the physical infra-structure will be such that the conditions
for the cultivation of rice or upland crops are opltimal and
maximum yields can be achieved.  The rise In dry season
cropping intensities after implementation and the Lnzrease in
yields are good indicators that the farmers utilize the offered
facilities to their full extent.
The ideas developed and experiences gained in the
field of engineering, project implementation, water management
and monitoring and project evaluation will reflect positively
on similar development throughout the Kingdom of Thailand.
Local staff have been involved in depth in the preparation of
design criteria and designs for civil and OFD works.  Local
contractors and RID staff have gained considerable experience
with the implementation of large scale on-farm development
works for which there is still a wide scope in the Kingdom.
The development of the Water Allocation  Scheduling and
Monitoring P rame (WADMS) now already has a positive impact
on several projects.  RXD is considering to implement WA183  on
all irrliation projects nation wide.   The work done and
experiences gained in the economic monitoring and evaluation of
the Meklong Irrigation Projects can be of great value for the
evaluation of other existing projects.
Within the Mae Klong irrigation Project - Malaiman
Phase I Consultants have recommended that due attention should
be paid by the Project Management to the proper completion of
the OFD facilities and to the drainage system and the adjacent
protection dikes in the flood prone areas of East Nalaiman. Due
attention should be paid to the Song Phi Nong River, since the
capacity of Whais river is r-st  uff issant and when it cannot
discharge the drainage wa,ar from. the Malaiman areas fast
enough severe floding in East Malaiman may occur, also causing
major damage to the distribution system0
The advised discharqes by the WA151 programme should
be strictly implemented.  Actual discharges should be monitored
and evaluated.  A nucleus Of trained staff should be retained
for proper operation and for training of staf t for other
projects, in the background and use of WAJ1l. The coordination
with  EGAT should be improved to ha've more control over
reservoir releases to the Vajiralongkorn dam.
The increased efficiency in water use in the Mae
Klong Basin will allow for more efficient use of the available
water resources, wh$oh wili enable  further agricultural
developments# not Only in the Mae hlong Basin, but also in the
Chao Phya Basins at present already a considerable amount of
water is conveyed to the lower Chao Phya West Bank area for
agricultural and domestic use.



- 17 -
considering the rising trend in commodity prices and
the scope for additional developments in the Mae Klong Basin,
*        the Consultants  have recommended  to continue  irrigation
development in the Mae Klong Basin.  Both in the Stage I and
Stage II Left Bank areas there is still an enormous potential
for more efficient water use and  increases  in cropping
intensities and yields  in case tertiary  development  is
implemented.  Especially in the Malaiman sugarcane areas,
farmers are very eager for further development and are wil-'ing
to pay for OFD facilities.
It can be concluded that an integrated approach to
irrigation development with attention not only for design and
construction but simultaneously for operation, maintenance and
water maanrgement, leads to satisfying results.  The formulation
of an irrigation operation plan beforehand and feedbacY from
the field to designers and construction staff are important
elements of this approach.
The monitoring of the water distribution and the
results of the agro-economic surveys also contribute to the
regular, direct feedback of field information to the top level
O&N staff.
Results might have been even better, if a consultancy
component on agronomic aspects, such as crop diversification,
extension, marketing, and credit had also been included in the
Project. The latter applies especially to upland crops.
Finally, the results obtained so far have also to be
contributed to the diligence of RID*s O&M organization, which,
understaffed still made the Mae .;long Irrigation Project -
Malaiman Phase I an outstanding example for modern Operation
and Maintenance of an i; rigation project in Thailand. The good
cooperation between pro,sct construction staff and O&M staff
was an essential contribution to this success thereforee it is
strongly recommended to follow a similar approach for future
developments.
Considering  the  increasing  complexity  of  the
management and further development of the central plain river
basins with regards to flood control, irrigation and drainage,
water availability and use, reservoir operation etc., and the
interrelationship between the  Mae Klong and Chao Phya River
Basins, Consultants recommend an integrated Chao Phya and
Meklong River Basin Development Study.  This study should
include such fields as water resources- development and crop
diversification, river basin planning, hydropower, agricultural
development, irrigation. drainage, flood plain management,
river hydraulics, hydrology, sai-"ity intrusion, water quality,
ecology, sociology, navigation and organization.
An important aspect in managing the water supply to
the different irrigation projects in the Mae Klong as well as
the Chao Phya Basins is the future integration of the existing
WASAN and VMS programmes.



- 18 -                 ATTACHMENT I
COMMENXS FROM THE ORROWER
ROYAL IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
BANGOKO, THWLAND
No. 0311/ L- I 2-November B.o.2532 (1989)
Res Mae Klong Irrigation Project-Malaiman
Phase I - Twelfth Irrigation Project
(Loan 2022-Ti)
Project Completion Report
Dear Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Reference is made to your letter dated September
29, 1989, we are pleased to inform you that the Evaluation
Summary and Overview prepared by World Bank staff on the
above project is found very complete.  Therefore, we have
no comment on the said report.
With beat regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Roongrueng Chulajata)
Deputy Director Geueral
tDirector General
Mr. Graham Donaldson, r~hief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, WW..,
Washington D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.



