Documetit ot
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i tR   N.. 9205
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-TH)
DEC*ER 21, 1990
Operations Evaluation Department
is documnd ba a reuced *dbbdls mi my be ud by                yI. h "e p dw   e
their .cfl do"  Ib  ontes'ma mm edwebe be id                Wod _ ,           I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisals  US$ 1.00  -  Baht 20.0
Currently:  Floating at about US$ 1.00   Baht 25.0
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CHO       Constant Head Orifice
FSL       Full Supply Level
Golongan  System of rotational irrigation used in Indonesia
HYV       High Yielding Variety
IRRI      International Rice Research Institute
JICA      Japanes* Aid Agency
MOAC      Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
OFD       On-Farm Development
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
RID       Royal Irrigation Department
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report,
WASM      Water Allocation Scheduling and Monitoring System
FISCAL YEAR:  October 1 - September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORIO BANK
Washington. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffKce of DirectomGeneral
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Thailand Irrigation
Projects XI and XII (Loans 1787-TH and 2022-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Performance Audit Report on Thailand Irrigation Projects XI and
XII (Loans 1787-TH and 2022-TH)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .............                .............................................                     i
BASIC  DATA  SHEETS    ................................................                                 ii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ...............................................   viii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT
I.   Introduction   .......................................    1
II.   Two  Success  Stories  in Growing Rice    ....                     ............    1
III.   The  Politics  of Irrigation  and Rice  Production                         .....    2
IV.   The  Earlv Years  1950-67    ............................                          9
V.   The Middle Years  1973-1980    .........................   12
VI.   The  End of an Era  1980-90:   The Mae Klong  and  Pattani   16
VII.   Project Objectives,  Definition  and Design   ....                        ......  17
VIII.   Project  Implementation   .............................   22
IX.   Proiect  Outcome   ....................................   24
X.   Findings  and  Issues    ................................   26
Anmex  1:   An Alternative  View   ......................   37
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTS
IRRIGATION XI (Loan 1787-TH)
General ................................................  39
Background . ........................................... 39
Project  Objectives  .........                 ...........................   40
Project  Content   ..........                ............................   40
Implementation   ...........                ............................   41
Project  Costs  and Disbursements    ......................   44
Agricultural  Production   ..............................   45
Project  Impact   ...........               ............................   47
Bank and Borrower  Performance    ........................   48
Lessons  Learned   ..........                ............................   48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IRRIGATION XII (Loan 2022-TH)
I.  General ............................................           51
II.  Project Objectives and Content                                 51
III. Implementation .52
IV.  Project Costs and Disbursements                                54
V.  Agricultural Production  ............................          54
VI.    Project   Impact  .........................                  55
VII.  Bank Performance ............................                  56
VIII. Lessons Learned .56
ATTACHMENT
Comments from the Borrower  ................                         69
Maps
IBRD 22765 - Irrigation in the Northern and Central Regions
as of 1985.
IBRD 22764 - Irrigation in the Northeastern Region as of
1985.
IBRD 22766 - Irrigation in the Southern Region as of 1985.



i
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-TH)
PREFACE
This is the report of the performance audit of Irrigation
Projects XI and XII in Thailand. Irrigation XI was partially financed by a
Bank loan of US$ 80.0 million and was approved by the Board on December 20,
1979. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1988 and US$ 25.6 million was
cancelled. Irrigation XII was partially financed by a Bank loan of US$
57.0 million and was approved by the Board on June 23, 1980. The Loan was
closed on June 30, 1988 and US$ 22.6 million was cancelled.
The PPAR consists of the Project Performance Audit (PPA)
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and the Project
Completion Reports (PCR) prepared by the Government, in the case of the
Pattani Scheme, and by consultants on behalf of the Government in the case
of the Mae Klong Schemes. The PCRs attached to this audit are summaries,
prepared by World Bank staff, of the originals as the originals are too
lengthy to reproduce. Copies of the originals can be obtained on request
either from the Region or OED.
The PPA is based on the attached PCRs, the Staff Appraisal and
President's Reports, the loan documents, the transcripts of the Executive
Directors' meetings at which the projects were considered, on a review of
project files and on discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited
Thailand in February 1990 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's
assistance and to make field visits to the completed projects.
The PCRs provide an adequate account and assessment of the
project experiences.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were
sent to the Government and the Borrower. The comments received from the
Royal Irrigation Department are reproduced as an Attachment to the PPAR.



ii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-TH)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal       Actual or            Actual as %
Item                 Expectation    Current Estimate    Appr. Exp.
Total Project Costs
(US$ million)             186.0           171.0                92
Loan Amount
(US$ million)             80.0            54.4                 68
Date of Effectiveness    04/80            04/80
Date of Completion        12/85           06/88
Months for Implementation 68              98                    144
Economic Rate of Return % 32              7                     22
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88
Appraisal       0     7   27   47   59   71   80
Estimate
Actual          0     5   17   22   30   40   46   54   54
Actual as %
of Estimate    100  71   63   47  -J1   56   58   68   68



iii
Proiect Dates
Original Plan             Actual
First Mention in Files          06/78                ---
Appraisal                       04/79                 04/79
Negotiations                    10/79                 10/79
Board Approval                  12/79                 12/79
Signing                         01/80                01/80
Effectiveness                   04/80                04/80
Closing                         06/86                06/88
Staff Inputs
(staff weeks)
FY76      FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80      FY81
Preappraisal    2.2       0.0        0.2        42.9        1.3
Appraisal                            0.0        18.2       12.1
Negotiations                                               11.9
Supervision                                                 4.8       13.6
Other                                            0.1        0.4
Total      2.2       0.0        0.2        61.3      30.5       13.6
FY82      FY83       FY84       FY85       FY86-88   Total
Preappraisal                                                           46.7
Appraisal                                                              30.4
Negotiations                                                           11.9
Supervision      9.2       15.6      17.7       6.9        42.8       110.7
Other                                                                   0.5
Total      9.2       15.6       17.7       6.96      42.8       200.2



iv
Mission Data
ission Type              Month/Year      No.Persons       Ratig
dientification/          1977-79
'reparation              Various
,ppraisal                 04/79                3            __
upervision I             04/80                 3             1
upervision II            09/80                 3             1
'upervision III          04/81                 3             2
upervision IV            09/81                 4             2
u?ervision V             04/82                 5             2
upervision VI             11/82                3             2
upervision VII           06/83                 2             2
,upervision VIII          12/83                2             1
,upervision IX            08/85                3             2
,upervision X             03/86                3             2
,upervision XI            11/86                4             2
;upervision XII           10/87                3             2
;upervision XIII          06/88                2             2
Other Prolect Data
~orrower:           Kingdom of Thailand
'xecuting Agencies: Royal Irrigation Department
'ollow-on Projects: Irrigation XII
(LOAN 2022-TH)



v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGAT0N PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-Tlf)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Prolect Data
Appraisal       Actual or            Actual as %
Item                 Expectation    Current Estimate    Appr. Exp.
Total Project Costs
(US$ million)             115.0           79.7                 69
Loan Amount
(US$ million)             57.0            34.4                 60
Date of Effectiveness    11!81            11/81
Date of Completion        06/86           06/88
Months for Implementation 55              79                    144
Economic Rate of Return % 23              7                     30
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88
Appraisal       3    12   25   39   52   57   ---
Estimate
Actual          1    5    8    11   18   26   31
Actual as %
of Estimate    33   42   32   28   35   46   54



vi
Project Dates
Oriainal Plan             Actual
First Mention in Files         04/78                 ---
Appraisal                       09/80                09/80
Negotiations                    05/81                05/81
Board Approval                 06/81                 06/81
Signing                        08/81                 08/81
Effectiveness                   11/81                11/81
Closing                         06/86                06/88
St..ff Inputs
(staff weeks)
FY76      FY77       FY78      FY79       FY80       FY81
Preappraisal    8.7       8.6        14.2       0.7
Appraisal                            70.1       16.1
Negotiations                                     4.9
Supervision                                      1.2      16.2       31.5
Other                                 1.1                             3.0
Total      8.7       8.6        85.4      22.9       16.2      34.5
FY82      FY83       FY84      FY85       FY86-88   Total
Preaperaisal                                                          32.3
Appraisal                                                             86.1
Negotiations                                                           4.9
Supervision    25.1       12.8       16.0      7.6        21.7       132.1
Other                                                                  4.1
Total     25.1       12.8       16.0      7.6        21.7      259.6



vii
Mission Data
ission Tvpe              Month/Year     No.Persons      Rating
dentification/           1977-80
reparation               Various
ppraisal                 08/80                3            --
upervision I             09/81                5             1
upervision II            11/82                3             1
upervision III           05/83                2             2
upervision IV            12/83                2             2
upervision V             09/84
upervision VI            08/85                3             2
,upervision VII          03/86                3             2
upervision VIII          11/86                4             2
upervision IX            10/87                3             2
upervision X             06/88                2             2
Other Prolect Data
lorrower:           Kingdom of Thailand
^xecuting Agencies: Royal Irrigation Department
Pollow-on Projects: None



viii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Starting in 1950 and continuing until 1981, the World Bank has
made 16 separate lending operations in support of irrigation and water
con,.rol in Thailand. This is the audit report of the last two projects
that were undertaken in 1980 and 1981. Much has happened in the
agriculture sector and water subsector in thirty years of active lending
and a great deal has transpired in the nine years since the last project
agreement was signed. On balance the experience has probably been a
successful one, though not always for reasons anticipated. The intention
here is to pull together and summarize that experience, not only to provide
the necessary context for understanding the audit of the last two
operations but, to serve as a repository for lessons learned in retrospect.
(PPAR Paras. 1-2)
The Politics of Irrigation and Rice Production
2.        In Tnailand, government policies affecting rice production have
been extremely complicated. The tax and export policies of the Ministry of
Commerce have tended to discourage surplus rice production and exports from
all rice farmers while the irrigation investment and cost recovery policies
of the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOAC) Royal Irrigation Department (RID)
have tended to promote commercial production from a relatively select group
of rice farmers in favorable geographic areas. The net impact of the
contradictory Thai policies has been successful in a macro economic sense
but, as should be expected from diametrically opposed policies unevenly
distributed over time, space and income groups, both the benefits and costs
can appear in unexpected places.
3.        Thai farmers (pre 1982) received a much lower price for their
production than would have beer the case in a free market. Urban dwellers
benefitted by receiving an important consumer good at prices lower than a
free market would provide. As a result there has been a huge transfer of
resources in Thailand from commercial rice farmers to urban dwellers.
4.        On the investment and technology side, the explicit policy was
to alleviate rural poverty by providing public infrastructure in the form
of roads, electric power and irrigation. Rural roads and electrification
programs have proceeded well and the bulk of the population now have access
to these services. The attempt to do the same thing with irrigation and
water control has been less successful for reasons of geography and the
uneven distribution of land and water resources. This, however, was not
for lack of trying. The thrust of the government has always been to give
free water to as many farmers as possible and this was the popular RID



ix
objective - develop large, medium and small scale schemes to the point
where most farmers have control over water and most benefit from the public
irrigation subsidy.
5.        At the macro economic level the Thai policies have been
generally successful. Thailand is the world's leading exporter of rice
with a thirty to forty percent share of the international market. At the
micro economic level the irrigation investment policy has led to a
relatively small group of irrigated farms receiving the benefits of free
dry season water. Within the individual irrigation schemes the policy of
free water has led to destructive rent-seeking behavior. Extensive farmer
alteration of the physical infrastructure has taken place. (PPAR Paras. 5-
15)
The Early Years 1950-67
6.        In the seventeen years 1950-67 six water control projects were
partially financed by the Bank. No further loans were made in 'Lne period
1967-1972. The first twenty years of Bank-supported projects began to come
on stream, providing an improved but by no means "high tech" irrigation
technology. The impact of all this began in the 1960s below the Chai Nat
diversion dam in the Chao Phya plain. The water from Sirikit dam had
become available in 1972 and, together with the water from the earlier
completed Bhumiphol dam (1965), was having a large impact on dry season
irrigation. A partial picture of what was happening at that time can be
obtained from the first audit report produced by OED in 1980:
In 1972, the area of dry-season cropping was about 107,000 ha.
compared with a poter.tial of about 450,000 ha. which could be
supplied with water from Bhumiphol and Sirikit reservoirs. However,
since 1972 the dry-season cropped area has grown rapidly and reached
about 400,000 ha. in 1978. This was largely due to a sharp increase
in paddy prices which rose from US$45 per ton in 1972 to US$115 per
ton in 1978. providin2 strong incentives to farmers.  About 200,000
ha. of the dry-season cropped area is now irrigated by low-lift pumps
in the Southern Chao Phya plain in areas formerly devoted to a single
wet-season crop of flood-dependent rice. In these areas farmers have
given up wet-season cultivation in favor of dry-season cropping. The
remaining 200,000 ha. are double cropped, of which 150,000 ha. are
irrigated by gravity and 50,000 ha. by low-lift pumps.
7.        When large amounts of dry season water became available in the
Chao Phya Basin in the mid 60s and early 70s, farmers began to switch to
dry-season rice cropping slowly at first and then rapidly after the Sirikit
flows became available in 1972. The years 1968-72 were years of low
domestic rice prices, and the incentive to grow more rice was not great
even with the Bhumiphol dry-season flows commencing in the mid 1960s. The
switch accelerated after the relatively high price year of 1973 in which
nominal domestic prices increased by 44 percent and in real terms increased
by 25 percent.
8.        The other important development taking place at the time was the
indigenous development and deployment of the axial-flow low-lift pump. Of
the 400,000 ha. of dry-season cropping undertaken in the Chao Phya Basin by



x
1978, about 250,000 was achieved with the use of locally manufactured low-
lift pumps delivering the dry season water to fields from canals, drains,
borrow pits, road-side ditches and ponds. In the absence of tertiary
delivery systems, the local farmers found an "appropriate" technology to
help them make use of the water that was spread widely over the countryside
by the primary and secondary canal and drainage system that had been put
into place.
9.        Domestic production of these simple and inexpensive pumps
commenced in 1957. By 1967 it was estimated that there were 80,000 in
operation, mostly in the Central Plain. By 1975, the number had increased
to 176,000. In 1983 there were estimated to be over 600,000 in operation.
The extraordinary fact is that this technological innovation has received
hardly any formal recognition by irrigation engineers in Thailand. It is
relegated tc the farm mechanization profession. The fact that Thai farmeis
had, in the late 1960s, partially solved the problem of how to deliver
water from a system of primary and secondary canals and drains if the price
of rice was attractive has escaped those interested in modern irrigation
technology. The possibility that canal (and drain) delivery systems might
be consciously designed to incorporate this technology was not noted.
10.       With the improved control of river flows in the most important
rice growing basin in the country, the semi-controlled inundation delivery
system was judged to be in need of improvement and a "ditches and dikes"
program in the Chao Phya was financed in 1963. This project was designed
to provide the missing tertiary canal systems in the 600,000 ha. North Chao
Phya Plain. This, however, was to be a low cost "extensive" form of on-
farm development in which standards of water control were low. The latest
available irrigation technologies were not yet being recommended. (PPAR
Paras. 16-21) I/
The Middle Years 1973-80
11.       In the first seventeen years of Bank lending, six projects were
undertaken. In the seven-year period 1973-1980, eight more projects were
undertaken. Development of water resources, and the Bank's participation
in that development, was accelerating. The emphasis was on finishing the
work begun by approaching seriously the Japanese level of technological
sophistication. If only the water control was dependable and precise
enough and the fields were reshaped and leveled enough, the Thai farmer
would employ other inputs to finally achieve the sort of "high-tech"
operation that was associated with four to five ton per ha. yields.
12.       Given the World Bank's international rice price projections and
plausible intensity and yield figures, all of these projects were
economically feasible. It was also assumed that the high economic prices
would be reflected in higher farm-gate prices and that farmers net crop
income would at least double and possibly triple.
j/   For an alternative view of these historical developments from the
Region see Annex 1.



xi
13.       In early 1976 the first comprehensive review of the irrigation
subsector was prepared. This was necessitated largely by the accelerating
lending program and the severe difficulties encountered with
implementation. It is an illuminating document in that it gives a good
picture of the nature of the thinking that was going on at that time. Rice
production became a simple function of domestic consumption and exports.
Consumption became a function of population. Export levels were then
determined either by assuming a constant share of Bank projections of
international rice trade or a constant level of exports.
14. The major flaw in the underlying analysis was the estimate of future
domestic consumption. Per capita rice consumption was projected to
increase from 165 kg in 1976 to 170 kg in 1990 requiring an extra three
million tons by 1990 for consumption. In fact the per capita consumption
has steadily declined since the early 1970s reaching a level of 138 kg in
1982/83. This decline was already in evidence by 1976, with a peak
consumption level of 182 kg in 1970/71. The entire consumption and export
demand picture for rice, which drove the resulting irrigation investment
program, received one and a half pages of text and one table in the entire
document. A declining consumption rate would have raised serious
questions about the urgency of the irrigation investment program. In a
twenty-six page annex on agriculture there was no discussion of prices or
government policy affecting prices.
15.       The 1976 Review did pick up the fact that even though the
Northern Chao Phya Basin had received most of the irrigation investments
for dry-season cropping, the big increases in dry season production had
mostly (over 60%) come from the Southern Plain where farmers, receiving dry
season water from Sirikit and Bhumiphol Dams, had abandoned low-yielding
wet-season rice subject to flood damage to irrigate high yielding dry-
season rice with water pumped from improved drainage canals. The early
Bank-supported investments in dry season storage were paying off, but not
quite the way the engineers had anticipated.
16. The 1980 OED Audit Report of the Sirikit Dam Project and the First
Chao Phya Improvement Project noted the effect of the 1973 farm gate price
increases on dry season cropping. Of more concern to the 1980 audit was
the basin-wide shortage of dry-season water in the Chao Phya.
There is not even enough water to obtain full benefits from the last
two Bank-assisted projects: Phitsanulok (Loan 1149) and Chao Phya II
(Loan 1468).
Why did the Bank approve two loans (Loan 1149 of 1975 and Loan 1468
of 1977) for irrigation projects which would push water demand beyond
the overall basin's water availability ceiling...?
The audit provides a partial explanation:
The Bank's decision to support the Chao Phya I project was made
before the spontaneous expansion of dry season cropping and its
implications became apparent. The decision on Phitsanulok was made
when some information was already suggesting that water supply might
not be fully adequate for the project. However, both the cropping



xii
trend and its implications were fully aRyarent when the Chao Phva II
project was appraised in 1976.
For the case of Chao Phya II Project, undertaken in 1977, no satisfactory
explanation was ever given. It was the last Bank-supported expansion
scheme to be undertaken in the Chao Phya Basin. (PPAR Paras. 22-31) 21
The End of an Era 1980-90: The Mae Klong and Pattani
17.       By 1978, efforts were being made to reduce the size of the dry-
season planting in the Chao Phya Basin to match the water available. Too
large an area was served by irrigation infrastructure though critics were
quick to point out that it all needed "modernizing" if the full benefits of
the investment were ever to be realized. In the 1980s attention then
turned to the water-surplus Mae Klong Basin which had begun the main
diversion dam in 1965 and the first upstream storage dam in 1974. A second
hydro and storage dam was undertaken in 1980, the Khao Lam Project. The
pattern was similar to that followed in the Chao Phya Basin: first a
diversion dam and canal system for spreading wet season flows, followed by
upstream storage to firm up wet season flows and provide dry season water,
followed by more upstream storage. The stage was then set for the
development of the Mae Klong in a manner that would avoid the shortcomings
experienced in the Chao Phya. It was also time to follow up on the Pattani
hydro investment of 1977 in the extreme south of the country where the
storage provided for generating electricity could also be used for
irrigation.
Project Objectives. Definition and Design
18.       Both the Mae Klong and Pattani projects were on-going operations
whose overall dimensions had been decided many years earlier. In most
cases a good deal of engineering and construction had already been done.
The task was to rehabilitate, upf de and expand - complete what had been
started and repair what had not 1    maintained.  Irrigation XI comprised
the Mae Klong Right Bank Scheme and the Pattani Right Bank Scheme, while
Irrigation XII was for the Mae Klong Left Bank scheme only. In terms of
technology, the idea was to provide a form of on-farm development (OFD) for
66,000 ha. on the Mae Klong Right Bank, 27,000 ha. on the Mae Klong Left
Bank, and 15,000 ha. on the Pattani Right Bank, a total of 108,000 ha. The
OFD proposed would give most plots direct access to a tertiary canal which
commanded the surrounding land. Intensive on-f-rm development which
involved land leveling and boundary realignmen ., to effect efficient grid
patterns of the Japanese model was too costly to con der. The plots would
have access to supplemental wet-season water and adequate dry-season water
to allow improved wet season rice yields and a high yielding second crop in
the dry season.
19.       The basic design incorporated open canal gravity flow
technologies with upstream control structures that assumed that the
operators of the system could match the demand for water with the supply by
2/   For an alternative view of this historical development see Annex 1.



xiii
manipulating the various control structures at the primary, secondary and
tertiary level. A public, salaried canal bureaucracy would integrate the
feedback from the farm fields with the supply of water and the needed gate
settings. This process was to be computer assisted and the program and its
use was given the name of Water Allocation Scheduling and Monitoring
System, the WASM System. It was a simplified version of the system
developed by the Dutch in colonial Indonesia before the age of the
computer.
20.       In terms of policy initiatives, the Bank was to push for a
reorganization of RID that would emphasize operation and maintenance rather
than construction and the imposition of water user charges that would
promote the efficient use of water and serve an equity objective since only
a relatively fortunate few of the rice farmers of the country were
receiving supplemental wet season water and an even smaller group were
receiving dry season water.
21.       The key economic and financial assumption was that farm-gate
prices would be allowed to rise just as world market prices were predicted
to. Thus, in the SAR for Irrigation XI financial farm-gate prices were
assumed to increase in real terms by 45 percent over the period 1980-90 and
remain at that increased level thereafter. A year later with Irrigation
XII the assumed growth of the same factor over the period 1981-90 was a
more modest, but still a substantial 18 percent. These assumptions,
together with the cropping intensity and yield assumptions led to
approximately a doubling of net farm income for Irrigation XI and a
doubling of net small-farm (2 ha) income and a tripling of large (5 ha) net
farm income with Irrigation XII. Thus, both the economic and the financial
analyses were consistent. (PPAR Paras. 33-45)
Project Implementation
22.       In the Mae Klong Right and Left Bank projects, most of the
primary and secondary rehabilitation and extension works were completed.
However, of the 66,000 ha service area of the Right Bank, only 37,700 ha of
the tertiaries and on-farm development (OFD) took place. On the Left Bank,
only 22,000 ha of the original 27,000 ha service area was covered with the
OFD work. Overall for the Mae Klong, only 62 percent of the tertiary
system was put into place by the time of loan closing in late 1988. The
problem here was that about 38 percent of the farmers either did not want
or could not agree on the high tech tertiary development that required land
without compensation. i/
23.       In the Pattani scheme the problem was more serious:  the farmers
initially did not want any on-farm development. Only 4,300 ha.of a planned
15,000 ha. of OFD was completed some nine years after the loan was signed
and OFD development continues well after loan closing. The main and
secondary canals were delayed also because of contract administration
problems.
.i/  For a more positive view of this development see paragraph 6 of
Annex 1.



xiv
24.        After the fifth supervision mission of Irrigation XII in 1985
the problem of actually makirig the system work as designed was beginning to
be apparent. In the Mae Klong it was assumed that the lack of cooperation
of the farmers stemmed from their lack of understanding of how the OFD
would benefit them. An intensive program of farmer training was
subsequently undertaken together with the WASM initiative. The consultants
made an all out effort to address the problem of farmer resistance and
mobile teams of educators were fielded with audio-visual presentations
designed to explain the benefits of the project and allay fears. In the
Pattani scheme things were more serious. There was a fundamental lack of
trust between the engineers and the farmer beneficiaries. Accepting
tertiary development meant giving up title to scarce land without
compensation to the government before getting the civil works. To do this
requires not only the belief that the civil works are beneficial but that
they will in fact be put in place. To build trust requires more time and
effort than building canals. This is being accomplished at Pattani, but at
a pace much slower than envisioned in the project proposal.
25.       Progress in the area of the much sought after RID administrative
reform was monitored early in the supervision cycle of Irrigation XII where
an action plan and attention to implementation of the plan was a specific
covenant in the Loan Agreement. In April 1982 an RID Action Plan was
submitted to the Bank. There was a flurry of activity in the Bank to
follow up on the RID initiative and a public administration expert
accompanied the second supervision mission. In their report of January
1983 it was stated that a separate working paper on public administration
would be issued. There is no copy on file. The issue was apparantly given
less attention than problem of implementation of the OFD component.
26.       The other big institutional objective was to begin to collect
irrigation user charges. This was a covenant under the Irrigation XI Loan
Agreement. The enabling legislation had been drafted and approved by the
Cabinet prior to negotiations.  Everything hinged on the passing of the
proposed law by the Thai legislature. Since this never happened, the
detailed agreements for implementation were never triggered. A free water
policy continues to be the official position of the Thai government. (PPAR
Paras. 46-52)
Project Outcome
27.       In the end, $25.6 million of the $80.0 million Irrigation XI was
cancelled, while $22.6 million of the $57.0 million Irrigation XII was
cancelled. The retrospective rates of return of the two Mae Klong projects
arr now in the 7-8 percent range while that of the Pattani scheme is around
5 percent. This assumes that another 7,000 ha. of the Mae Klong Right Bank
OFD work will eventually be done after loan closing and another 9,000 ha.
of the Pattani OFD work will be accomplished. If one considers the heavy
pre-project sunk costs excluded from the economic analyses then the
economics of these high tech schemes providing wet and dry-season water are
not very impressive. Not only is the price of rice low at the farm gate,
it is now so low in the world market that even with the assumptions
concerning yields and cropping intensities actually taking place, the



xv
economics of such schemes no longer make a persuasive case for going
forward.
28.       Added to this sobering development is the evidence that the high
tech elements of the system that have been implemented are not at all being
used as the engineers intended. Few of the key structures in the Mae Klong
and and the Pattani have been calibrated - so measuring the major flows is
impossible even if it were desired. Despite the assertion in the PCRs that
the WASM system was a success and should be implemented throughout the
ccuntry, it was quite clear to the Audit that it was not being used at all
to manage the system either in the Mae Klong, where it was first developed,
or in the Pattani, where it was to be introduced. Most of the key
strucLures are not calibrated and many of the tertiary offtakes have been
damaged by farmers, especially in the Mae Klong. In addition, RID is
having great difficulty in recruiting, training and keeping gate operators
who could operate the system even if it were operable. The rapid private
sector industrial development of the country is attracting most of the
numerate graduates of technical schools. Finally, rent-seeking behavior on
the part of farmers is clearly present. Visible proof of this, beyond the
damaged control structures, is the numerous permanent pipe installations
that regularly pierce the primary and secondary canal banks to take water
on demand either by syphon or by pumping. (PPAR Paras. 53-56)
Findings and Issues
The Macro Economic Picture
29.       The Bank got involved in supporting irrigated rice production in
Thailand during a period in which world market prices for rice were high
relative to Thai production costs and the revenues from the effective
export tax on rice were important for the public finances of the country.
When cost reducing irrigation infrastructure providing supplemental wet-
season and dry-season water came on the scene in the mid 1960s the high
rice tax and resulting low domestic price for rice militated against the
rapid intensification expected. More appropriate price incentives were
introduced from 1973 on, during a time of unprecedented high world market
prices. Paddy production, led by supplemental wet-seasor irrigation
production expanded steadily.
30.       On the export scene two important factors were operating.  Thai
population growth was slowing to 2.0 percent per year, and the per capita
consumption of rice was declining at roughly 2.0 percent per year.
Domestic rice consumption remained -bout constant over the ten year period
and the entire increment in output had to be exported. By 1982, when world
rice prices collapsed, Thai exports were about four times their 1972
levels. The tax wedge between world and domestic prices had shrunk to less
than ten percent and the Ministry of Commerce had much less flexibility in
manipulating domestic and world prices. By 1989, Thai rice exports
accounted for 41 percent of the international market and Thailand has
become the main player in that market, albeit at price levels about 50
percent lower in real terms than pre 1982 levels. The high cost producers
such as the U.S. are slowly leaving the market. Extremely low cost
producers such as Viet Nam are now entering the market.



xvi
Underlying S.ructural Changes
31.       Beyond the issues of farm-gate prices and free canal water,
developed above, it is possible to identify a number of important
structural changes that were taking place in the Thai economy and society
that were to have a great impact on how irrigation schemes were to perform.
These come under the headings (i) declining relative importance of rice,
(ii) part time farming, (iii) public sector skill shortages, and (iv) urban
and industrial competition for water. (PPAR Paras. 59-63)
Modes of Thinking About Irrigation
32.       The dominant concept of irrigation in Thailand has been and
remains that of open canals delivering free water to the root zones of
plants by gravity. The means for doing this was through a large canal
bureaucracy dedicated to matching the demand for water with the supply by
frequent setting of gates and flow measuring devices. When demand exceeds
supply the same bureaucracy then applies a rationing system designed to
achieve an equitable distribution of the scarce water to the tens of
thousands of poor farmers who would otherwise be without water. This
simple and powerful paradigm has an inordinate appeal to engineers, civil
servants and politicians.
33.       A great deal of evidence exists to support the contention that
almost none of the constant head orifice structures have ever been used to
measure flows as part of an overall water allocation plan. Yet, in the
case of the Pattani scheme, where the Right Bank experience has been little
short of disastrous, the Left Bank design is proceeding with the constant
head orifice as the main tertiary control structure. The engineers explain
this apparently irrational action on the grounds that "someday" it may be
possible and desireable to measure water flows and the facilities to do so
will then be in place. In the mean time; the flow measuring devices, which
have not been broken by the farmers, are merely used as costly gates in tbe
"on" or "off" mode; farmers perforate the canal banks with pipes for water
on demand; and inexperienced gate operators respond to farmer pressures.
Reality bears little resemblance to the paradigm and a form of populist
anarchy reigns.
34.       For those who accept the local and international empirical
evidence that the systems are, for very good reasons, operating under a
regime substantially different from design intentions; many interesting
possibilities present themselves. The most obvious thing to do is to
examine how the existing systems actually operate and how the farmers
interact with the system and its operators. In a country as large and
varied as Thailand with a strong commercial ethic there are bound to be
numerous "successes" in which public systems have been modified by the
farmers to actually produce the services some farmers want and need. The
pilot sugar technology in the Mae Klong is only one example. A careful
study of the wide-spread on-demand pumping from canals, its extent, and the
means of distributing the water once it is removed would be another obvious
area to investigate. It serves no purpose to ignore this reality and it
may be something that should be encouraged. A study of farmer damage to
control structures is also an obvious need. It serves no useful purpose to



xvii
ignore this rent-seeking reality since it creates much of the maintenance
problem in the country.
35.       Engineers with successful experience in the design and operation
of modern, fully-gated, hydraulically stable irrigation systems tend to see
the solution of the "Thai irrigation problem" as one of modernization and
increasing sophistication and complexity to make the systems deliver their
intended services. Engineers with experience with large public systems in
areas with high rainfall wet seasons, like much of monsoon Asia and Central
and Southern Thailand, tend to see the solution as the "structured" one of
decreasing hydraulic sophistication and increasing concern for control and
protection of the infrastructure from farmer damage and intervention. The
latter group have clearly gone beyond the irrigation paradigm. ij
36.       Economists point out that any system paid for by user charges
and under the control of the farmers tends to perform well. The economists
push the notion of water user charges and financially self-sufficient
parastatal operators so that farmers get water by paying what it is worth
rather than trying to control the bureaucracy that allocates water or
modifying the physical infrastructure. A pricing system harmonizes
interests and sets unambiguous rules. For economists part of the solution
to the "Thai irrigation problem" is to make the RID budget dependent on
water user charge revenues, just as the state power company and the state
railways are largely dependent on revenues from users. Experience in the
Philippines has shown the dramatic change in attitudes of the irrigation
bureaucracy when the incentives facing the management and farmers shift to
quasi commercial standards.
37.       Still another group of professionals see a different route to
addressing the problem. These are the rural sociologists that approach the
operation of an irrigation scheme not as a complex problem of the
hydraulics of open channel flow. Rather they see it as an exercise in
cooperative group dynamics in which social engineering is at least as
important as hydraulics. Rent-seeking behavior can be controlled if the
right social institutions can be broight to bear on the problem. They
point to the successful irrigation associations in Bali, Taiwan and Japan
as proof that rent-seeking behavior need not break out in public irrigation
schemes. They usually embrace the notion of the economists that the
financial participation of the farmer in the construction and operation of
the scheme is an essential ingredient of success. Engineers have no
quarrel with the position of the sociologists concerning water user groups
and generally wish them well, occasionally citing the failure to form
effective groups as being the reason their infrastructure is not being used
as designed. The sociologists are also the people most qualified to
address the effect of part-time farming on the use of public irrigation
systems. Neither the economists nor the engineers are equipped to address
these sorts of questions. (PPAR Paras. 64-73)
!/   See the Region's qualification of this statement in footnote 57 on
page 30 of the PPAR.



xviii
Conclusions
38.       In retrospect, RID's and the Bank's early engineering approach
to irrigation development could be characterized as an unconscious variant
of the "structured" approach to system design. First, spread the water
with diversion structures and a primary and secondary canal system. Gated
tertiaries and on-farm development would not be included. Then, provide
dry season storage to firm up wet season flows and provide for some dry-
season cropping. If this had been combined with an attractive farm-gate
price for rice in the mid 1960s by a sympathetic Ministry of Commerce, then
success could have been declared as the rice would certainly have been
forthcoming, given the reservoir storage, the low-lift pump technology and
the supply elasticities.
39.       In the Mae Klong the problem of too much investment for the
water available was avoided. However, the gated technology chosen in the
final projects was not, in retrospect, appropriate for the relatively high
wet-season rainfall conditions nor for the rent-seeking environment created
by a free water policy. Going for high-command, manually operated,
extensively-gated systems was, in retrospect, a questionable decision since
this form of modernization and upgrading did not take account of what was
actually happening and what could work in the Thai context. A much less
costly extension of the "spreading" infrastructure without the gates and
without the high canals on fill would have extended irrigation potential
(similar to that already incorporated on twenty-five percent of the pre
project area) to the bulk of the farm population without the uneconomic
capital costs.
40.       The major contribution of Thai farmers to public tropical
irrigation systems is their demonstrated willingness to pump water the
final meter or so to their crops. A privately owned final delivery system
incorporated into a public, "structured", largely gateless canal system
with FSL at or below ground level is an intriguing concept. It fits with
the, by now, indisputable Thai policy of free canal water and a large
centralized canal bureaucracy. It fits the wet season rainfall conditions
of the south and the central plain and it squares with what the farmers are
actually doing. If actual experience could ever overcome the powerful
attraction of the irrigation paradigm, it is quite likely that Thai
engineers could then encourage the development of an appropriately Thai
irrigation technology that would not have to be patterned after what worked
for special reasons in Japan, California, North Africa or colonial
Indonesia. The elements of such a technology are already emerging. It
takes official recognition of what already exists to make these initiatives
technically respectable. The rest of rice-growing tropical Asia would then
have a model to look towards that might help them with their own
divergences between design and reality. ../
.2./ The Region takes strong exception with this view. See footnote 60 on
page 33 of the PPAR.



xix
Caveats
41.       There are two major concerns the Audit has with the line of
reasoning set forth above. The first is the danger of simplification and
overstatement in order to make a point. The fact that there are probably
over a million low-lift pumps operating in the country today and that Thai
farmers are willing to use this technology in conjunction with public
irrigation schemes to give them the flexibility they need to produce a
range of crops is an attractive development for those interested in
agricultural production and crop diversification. Seizing on this
possibility as a panacea is the danger. There is no magic in this
development. It already exists where it makes sense and it only needs to
be officially recognized by the engineering profession and documented.
Most public irrigation schemes in Thailand have already been modified by
influential and well-located farmers to give them what they need. Some of
these modifications, principally the permanent pipe installations in the
canal banks, clearly require the active or passive cooperation of the canal
bureaucracy.
42.       The second concern is the equity issue.  One of the most
attractive features of the official engineering designs is that every
farmer in the command area, in theory, gets his fair share of the available
water. The fact that, in reality, upstream users and those close to the
primary and secondary canals get much more than their fair share at the
right time is indisputable. The Golongan system of rotation has not worked
in Thailand any better than it has in Indonesia. If one accepts the
inherent and inescapable inequity of the present system of populist
anarchy, then the jump to a demand oriented first-pump-first-served system
that is, even in theory, inequitable is less difficult to contemplate. It
is, in the Audit's opinion, likely that accepting this inequity will allow
the designers to produce a system that is both more efficient and less
inequitable than that which exists at present. This is something that
would have to be studied carefully. For those who insist that the existing
systems can be made to work according to the original equitable designs,
the contemplation of something that is admittedly inequitable at the outset
is a step backward. The problem with the theoretical position is that all
the empirical evidence is against it. It then becomes a hopeful assertion
rather than a realistic assessment of what is possible.
43.       In most countries the pressure of events in the form of food
shortages or public sector budget constraints eventually forces irrigation
system designers to modify design assumptions to incorporate past
experience and current research findings. In Thailand neither of these
forces is operating and the only signal that something may be wrong is the
low economic returns to large scale irrigation investments including the
two under audit. This by itself is unlikely to effect any changes. The
only near-term inescapable physical reality in Thailand that cannot be
ignored is the increasing scarcity of surface water resources for
agriculture and urban industrial and domestic consumers. Even this
pressure will not necessarily generate a real need to incorporate actual
operational experience into the design of future irrigation system
investments as long as inter-basin transfers are a technical possibility.
(PPAR Paras. 74-82)



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
IRRIGATION PROJECTS XI AND XII
(LOANS 1787-TH AND 2022-TH)
I. Introduction
1.        Starting in 1950 and continuing until 1981, the World Bank has
made 16 separate lending operations in support of irrigation and water
control in Thailand. This is the audit report of the last two projects
that were undertaken in 1980 and 1981. Much has happened in the
agriculture sector and water subsector in thirty years of active lending
and a great deal has transpired in the nine years since the last project
agreement was signed. On balance the experience has probably been a
successful one, though not always for reasons anticipated. The intention
here is to pull together and summarize that experience, not only to provide
the necessary context for understanding the audit of the last two
operations but, to serve as a repository for lessons learned in retrospect.
2.        The above considerations lead to a format that is heavily loaded
with the first thirty years of experience. This is presented by comparing
and contrasting the experiences with rice growing in Japan and Thailand.
In both countries irrigation investments have been aimed mainly at paddy
production and the policies and experience of both countries is
illuminating as much from the differences as from the similarities. A
separate section on the politics of irrigation is provided because this is,
in the Audits's opinion, the most neglected aspect of irrigation planning.
Both of these initial sections highlight factors that, with the benefit of
a thirty year perspective, have been particularly important in
understanding the flow of lending operations. The next two sections deal
with the early (1950-67) years of lending and the middle years (1973-1980)
respectively. The conventional audit report begins with the next section
in which the most recent two lending operations are examined. This
includes some of the most interesting and insightful material since most of
the in-depth sector and subsector work done by the Bank was done after 1985
when lending had ceased and there was more time and resources to devote to
analyses. The final section then seeks to highlight the lessons to be
learned from a rich and varied experience.
II. Two Success Stories in Growing Rice
3.        When it comes to irrigated rice culture, Thailand is something
of a paradox. On one hand it is the premier rice exporter in the world,
accounting for up to forty percent of international rice sales in recent
years. It has never slipped below a rank of three i:i the world rice market
in the last twenty years   On the other hand, it has consistently had the
lowest ferti'.izer usage and the lowest avetage yields in rice growing Asia.
This performance can be contrasted with Japan and Korea where fertilizer



2
usage and rice yields are the highest in the world. 1/ Yet, the latter two
countries are generally considered to be successful at growing irrigated
rice while Thailand's performance needs to be "upgraded and modernized".  /
4.        The problem lies in differing perspectives and definitions.
Japanese success is largely in the technology area while that of Thailand
is in the area of economics. The need for modernizing and upgrading rice-
growing technology in Thailand is almost always referred to by agriculture
scientists and irrigation engineers - not development or macro economists.
While Japan has by far the highest production cost for rice in Asia (four
to six times world market prices), Thailand has one of the lowest costs of
production. 3/ In 1985 it was estimated that the average cost per ton for
producing rice in Thailand was about US$ 100. In the Chao Phya basin the
cost could be as low as US$60 per ton. By comparison, the other major
exporter of rice, the U.S., had production costs of US$ 180-200 per ton,
double to triple Thai costs. 4. Thus, the two major rice exporters ia the
world and the most technologically advanced in Asia have very different
cost structures. Economic theorists would see the Thais expanding their
production and exports, driving both the Japanese and the U.S. producers
out of business. This has not been the case for reasons explained below.
III.  The Politics of Irrigation and Rice Production
At the Macro Level
5.        The Japanese approach to "success" in growing rice is well known
- pay farmers several times prevailing world market prices for their rice
together with subsidized rice research and intensive, extremely high-cost,
public irrigation development. In 1975, Japanese farmers were receiving
US$ 865 per ton for brown rice in 1975 prices and Japanese consumers were
paying US$ 680 per ton for the same commodity. At that time, brown rice
could be imported for US$ 200 per ton on the world market. On the
investment side, Japanese irrigation and land consolidation investments
were averaging about US$ 13,000 per ha. while the average for Southeast
Asian countries was estimated at US$ 1,000 per ha. Such policies quickly
led to overcoming the post WWII Japanese rice deficit and led to an
embarrassing and costly surplus for export, requiring the setting of
/   Thailand:  Pricing and Marketing Policy for Intensification of Rice
Agriculture, World Bank Country Study, 1985, Table 1.04, p. 88.
21   Thailand Irrigation Subsector Review, Projects Department, East Asia
Pacific Regional Office, Report No. 5847-TH, April 25, 1986, Ch. III,
pp.18-35.
i/   The term "rice", strictly speaking, means the grain available after
threshing and milling the unhusked rice (paddy). Field yields and
production tonnages are reported as unhusked rice. Milled rice is
assumed to be about 65 % of the weight of the paddy that produced it.
4/   Thailand Irrigation Subsector Review, Projects Department, East Asia
Pacific Regional Office, Report No. 5847-TH, April 25, 1986, p.48.



3
quotas. ./ The setting of the annual rice procurement price quickly became
a major political event in which rice farmers were pitted against the
consumer groups and the Ministry of Finance, which had to finance the huge
subsidy. k/ The important lesson to be learned here is that a political
decision was taken in Japan to achieve rice self-sufficiency and that a
substantial transfer of income was made from the urban work force to the
rice farmer to help effect that objective. Z7 The corollary to this is
that irrigation engineering and agricultural science were necessary but not
sufficient conditions to achieve the objective. Without very high and
uneconomic financial incentives for farmers, the same agriculture science
and irrigation infrastructure would have produced very different
results. /
6.   In Thailand the situation has been far more complicated.  The tax and
export policies of the Ministry of Commerce have tended to d'5courage
surplus rice production and exports from all rice farmers while the
irrigation investment and cost recovery policies of the Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOAC) Royal Irrigation Department (RID) have tended to
promote commercial production from a relatively select group of rice
farmers in favorable geographic areas. The net impact of the contradictory
Thai policies has been successful in a macro economic sense but, as should
be expected from diametrically opposed policies u evenly distributed over
time, space and income groups, both the benefirs and costs can appear in
5J   The Audit is not critic.al of the Japanese po) cy to pursue a rice
self-sufficiency object.ve at a high domes.tic t.ost. That is a policy
the country desires for -arious non economic r.isons and can afford.
The Ministry of Finance and Parliament receive he bill for such a
policy every year.  Under these circumstances, nkst economists would
applaud this sort of open decision to transfer .esources for a
specific non economic objective. The example is being used here
because the transparency of the process in Japan makes an important
point that is relevant for Thailand.
iJ/  Data for this discussion are taken from Chapter 5 of Farm Water
Management for Rice Cultivation, Asia Productivity Organization,
Tokyo, 1977. The article, Japan-l, was written by Mr. Takashige
Kimura, Project Manager, Ootone Irrigation Project, Kanto
Agricultural Administration Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, Yookaichiba-shi, Chiba Prefecture. It is unusual in that
it was written by an irrigation engineer yet presents a comprehensive
picture of technology as well as financial incentives.
7.Z   When Japan wes undergoing its industrial development in the late 19th
and early 20th century it financed much of that development with
income transferred from farmers to urban industrial development. In
the late 20th century the flow has reversed
.a./ There are, of course, many differences in climate, geography, factor
prices and growing conditions between Thailand and Japan buc they do
not affect the point made here.



4
unexpected places. 9/ Unlike Japan, where the financial cost of rice self
sufficiency is known and a mutually reinforcing policy is explicitly
pursued, the net farmer incentive system in Thailand is not explicit
political policy and must be inferred from examining actions and their
results rather than stated intent.
7.        Rather than drive down the international price with expanded
exports the Thai Government (or part of the Thai Government) has chosen to
sell a smaller volume at the higher price and tax away the monopoly
profits. This has been justified by the political need to keep the
internal domestic price of rice both low and stable. When world prices for
rice were high, the Government Las kept the high world price from being
transmitted to the local economy by setting the effective rice export tax
high to soak up the surplus between the desired low local price and the
high world price. When world prices came down, the effective export tax
was reduced. This has had the effect of generating fluctuating levels of
quasi public revenues and stabilizing, at a low level, prices for the most
important consumer good in Thailand. Unlike the Japanese case, the Thai
farmers (pre 1982) received a much lower price for their production than
would have been the case in a free market.(See Figure 1) IO/ Urban
dwellers benefitted by receiving an important consumer good at prices lower
than a free market would provide. As a result there has been a huge
transfer of resources in Thailand from commercial rice farmers to urban
dwellers, precisely the opposite objective currently pursued in Japan. 11/
2/   The welfare impact of Government rice price policies has been
examined in: The Effects on Income Distribution and Nutrition of
Alternative Rice Price Policies in Thailand, by Prasarn
Trairatvorakul, IFPRI Research Report No. 46, November 1984; The
Political Economy of Aricultural Pricing Policy:  Trade. Exchange
Rate, and Agricultural Pricing Policies in Thailand, by Ammar
Siamwalla and Suthad Setboonsarng, World Bank Comparative Studies,
1989; and Thailand: Pricing and Marketing Policy for Intensification
of Rice Agriculture, World Bank Country Study, 1985.
iO/  In the "stable" years of 1960 to 1972, the total effective tax on
Thai rice fluctuated between fifty and seventy-five percent of the
domestic price. In the "peak" years of 1973-75, the effective tax
climbed to a high of 171 percent of the domestic price in 1974.
After the 1982 collapse in world rice prices, the tax wedge between
domestic and border prices has remained at about ten percent.
1l/  The Thai system for effecting this transfer is exceedingly
complicated and it is only in recent years that the analysis has been
done which allows us to make this statement. Part of the reason for
this is that the official attempts at domesti.c rice price
stabilization that are undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture are
generally ineffective. The real impact is made by export controls
and taxes set up and presided over by the Ministry of Commerce. See:
T'he Political Economy of Agricultural Pricing Policy: Trade.
Exchange Rate. and Agricultural Pricing Policies in Thailand, by
Ammar Siamwalla and Suthad Setboonsarng, World Bank Comparative
Studies, 1989.



5
FIGURE I
Border and Domestic '"Paddy" Prices
Omficled by 1,h GOP dmleftr (1g72 * too)
4-
0
Cu
0
t9,80        9s"        19"          9217                     98         19 ^
The Political Economy of Agricultural Pricine Policys Trade,
Exchanete Rate-.-and Agricultural Pricinit Policies iln Thailand, by
A-mr Slamwalla and.Suthad-%Setboonsarng, World Bank Comparative
Studies, 1989.



8.        On the investment and technology side, the explicit policy was
to alleviate rural poverty by providing public infrastructure in the form
of roads, electric power and irrigation. The Thai success with roads and
road transportation is well-known.  A dense network of reasonably well-
maintained roads serving the entire population is now in place and an
extremely efficient privately owned bus and trucking industry is providing
a variety of services at cost based prices to the bulk of the population.
A similar success story can be told concerning the electrification of the
countryside. The attempt to do the same thing with irrigation and water
control has been less successful for reasons of geography and the uneven
distribution of land and water resources. This, however, was not for lack
of trying. The thrust of the government has always been to give free water
to as many farmers as possible and this was the popular RID objective -
develop large, medium and small scale schemes to the point where most
farmers have control over water and most benefit from the public irrigation
subsidy. The currently popular notion of the "greening" of the northeast
is a direct descendent of the idea that access to the benefits of
controlled water for most farmers is feasible with good engineering and
agriculture extension.
9.        By 1975, twenty-five years after the first Bank loan in the Chao
Phya basin, officially irrigated land accounted for only 26 percent of the
planted area. Most of this was supplemental irrigation in the wet season
only. The fortunate farmers that had dry season water accounted for only
four percent of the area planted in paddy. By 1982-83, the end of the era
of large-scale irrigation investments, officially irrigated land was by
then 30 percent of the area planted to rice. Dry season water was by then
applied to seven percent of the planted area. 12/ Total paddy production
from the period 1975/76 to 1982/83 increased by twenty-six percent with
rainfed production increasing annually at about one percent and irrigated
production increasing at about six percent. Rainfed production was sixty-
one percent of total output in 1975-76 with irrigated production at thirty-
nine percent. By 1982/83 rainfed production accounted for forty-eight
percent of production with fifty-two percent coming from irrigated land.
While these statistics show steady growth in irrigated production and a
shiLt in shares of output, it is in the realm of dry-season production that
the most dramatic changes were taking place. Growth in dry-season
irrigated rice production over the period was at an average annual rate of
seventeen percent with total dry season output increasing by about a factor
of five. The share of dry season to total output increased from eight
percent in 1975/76 to thirteen percent in 1982/83.
10.       The message here is that rainfed paddy production remains an
extremely important element of national output and that supplemental wet-
season irrigation has been the main contributor to production increases.
Dry-season production has grown rapidly from a small base but is still a
relatively small share of output produced by a relatively small number of
farmers.
L2. Thailand Irrigation Subsector Review, Projects Department, East Asia
Pacific Regional Office, Report No. 5847-TH, April 25, 1986, Table
5.2, p. 44.



7
11.       Yield increases were not spectacular.  Average dry-season
irrigated paddy yields in 1975/76 were 3.2 tons per ha. By 1982/83 this
had increased to 3.3 tons per ha., still well below potential
12.       In spite of this modest technological progress, it was good
enough to make Thailand the world's leading exporter of rice with a thirty
to forty percent market share. Steady production increases were taking
place while domestic consumption, in spite of a growing population and low
stable prices, remained constant. The increments in production then went
into the surplus for export. Macro economic success in the face of limited
technological improvement continued to characterize the rice subsector.
The reason for this "mixed" result is partially explained by the price
factor analysis summarized above, an analysis that was not available to
irrigation project specialists until four years after a thirty year lending
program had ended.
At the Micro Level
13.       The huge yield increases possible from combined use of
irrigation, high yielding rice varieties (HYVs) and fertilizer (the
Japanese technology) combined with low production costs and projected high
world market prices provided impeccable economic arguments for proceeding
with specific irrigation investments. The problem was that the financial
arguments, given the large difference between the world market price and
the farm gate price, were much more uncertain. By assuming moderately
increasing effective export taxes and much larger increases in world and
therefore domestic prices it was easy to produce a compelling financial
justification also. L3/ If a cheap and stable domestic rice regime had
been assumed the effective export tax would have to be assumed to increase
appropriately with rising world prices and decline with falling prices and
the financial justification would be less certain. The evidence now shows
that the latter was the case pre 1972. Regardless of world market prices,
farm gate prices were kept so low and stable that there was no compelling
financial incentive to use the intensive technology to anything like its
full potential. 1i/
14.       Equally important was the national policy of free water provided
by a central government agency without financial accountability. The Royal
Irrigation Department, unlike the sellers of electric power or
!2/  See for instance:  Irrigation Project XI. Staff Appraisal Report,
Report No. 2622-TH, November 26, 1979, Table 6.1, p. 33. The world
market price of rice is assumed to increase in real terms by 50
percent between 1980 and 1990. The farm gate price of paddy used in
the farm budget analysis is assumed to increase in real terms by 45
percent over the same period.
jS/  The revealed objective of "cheap rice" and the potential impact on
incentives for intensification of rice production are set forth in:
Thailand: Pricing and Marketing Policy for Intensification of Rice
Agriculture, World Bank Country Study, 1985, pp. 12-32. See
especially the time series of constant domestic wholesale prices in
Table 1, page 13.



8
transportation services has no authority or incentive to charge users for
irrigation water even though the users and beneficiaries are a relatively
small and well-defined subset of thL. population. With no revenues other
than general government allocations there was not the usual financial
feasibility constraint that promotes both rational pricing of services and
concern for the economic and financial goodness of investment projects.
There were and continue to be no bottom line statistics by which the
performance of RID managers can be judged.
15.       The provision of free valuable public goods by an administrative
bureaucracy to a select subgroup of the population provides the environment
that leads to what economists call "rent-seeking" behavior. Public
irrigation projects with free or subsidized water are extreme cases of
incentives for rent-seeking. The value of irrigation water is usually much
greater than what users are asked to pay. This difference is the "rent"
associated with the good. In the absence of an impersonal market
allocation mechanism the water and its associated benefit is obtained by
other means. One of the principal micro effects of such an environment is
that it pays for each individual irrigator to do whatever is required to
get access to the scarce water within the scheme, regardless of the impact
ULI the system at large and on the other irrigators. Repetto refers to this
as the "assurance paradox". L5/ He explains it as follows:
Collectively, they would be better off if all abided by the system's
operating rules and contributed to its maintenance. But, any single
farmer would be better off if he shirked his obligations and took
more than his share of water. On the other hand, he would be much
worse off if he abided by the rules and nobody else did. The
frequent result is that rules and cooperative behavior break down
unless strong community traditions and sanctions protect against
antisocial behavior . Without assurance that operators will
impartially enforce the rules and run the system, conditions soon
deteriorate into the populist anarchy that now exists in many public
irrigation systems.
15_/ For an excellent presentation of the rent-seeking phenomenon applied
to the irrigation systems of the developed and developing world see:
Skimming the Water: Rent-seeking and the Performance of Public
Irrigation Systems, by Robert Repetto, Research Report #4, World
Resources Institute, Washington, D.C., December 1986.



Thus, the political decision of the Thai government to provide irrigation
water free by a centralized bureaucracy has potential macro economic as
well as micro economic and engineering implications. There is considerable
evidence that extensive rent-seeking behavior has been taking place in Thai
public irrigation schemes including those under audit. 16/
IV. The Early Years 1950-67
16.       In the seventeen years 1950-67 six water control projects were
partially financed by the Bank. The first (LN 36-TH) was made in 1950 and
was for the Chai Nat Diversion Dam on the Chao Phya River. This key
facility and a system of main canals was to spread the wet season flood
waters (storage for dry season use was not a feature) of the Chao Phya over
some 600,000 ha. of the Northern Chao Phya Plain. Its initial objective
was to provide supplementary wet season irrigation through semi-controlled
inundation. With a single project, a large number of farmers in a very
productive area were given improved, but not "modern" access to wet season
water. Provision for upstream storage and hydroelectric power on the Ping
River was then begun in 1957 with the Bhumiphol Dam Project (LN 175-TH) 250
km north of the Chai Nat Diversion Dam. When completed in 1964 this would
firm up the wet season flows for the Northern Chao Phya Plain and increase
substantially the dry season flows. In 1967, the Sirikit storage dam on
the Nan River was started (LN 514-TH). It too was to provide electric
power and firm up wet season flows and expand dry season irrigation in the
Chao Phya Plain.
17.       With the improved control of river flows in the most important
rice growing basin in the country, the semi-controlled inundation delivery
system was judged to be in need of improvement and a "ditches and dikes"
program in the Chao Phya was financed in 1963 (LN 328-TH). This project
was designed to provide the missing tertiary canal systems in the 600,000
ha. North Chao Phya Plain. This, however, was to be a low cost "extensive"
form of on-farm development in which standards of water control were low.
The latest available irrigation technologies were not yet being
recommended. 17I
18. In 1963, the Bank partially financed the Petchaburi Irrigation
Project (LN 327-TH) a 55,000 ha. scheme in the south, complete with storage
dam, canals, ditches, drains and farm roads. Of more importance was the
Mae Klong Irrigation Project (LN 394-TH) of 1965. This was the first step
6/ For early evidence in Thailand to this effect see: "Practices and
Accountability for Better Water Management", by T. H. Wickham and A.
Valera in: Irrigation Policy and Management in Southeast Asia,
International Rice Research Institute, Los Banos, Philippines, 1978,
p. 68. For more recent evidence see: Irrigation Design and
Management. Experience in Thailand and its General Applicabilitv, by
Herve Plusquellec and Thomas Wickham, World Bank Technical Paper
Number 40, 1985, p. 30.
11/ For an alternative presentation of developments during this period
see paragraph 1-3 of Annex 1.



10
in developing the Mae Klong Basin which was the second largest rice growing
basin in the country. The diversion dam at Kanchanaburi and the canals
were to serve 120,000 ha. of wet season rice production with supplemental
wet season irrigation. Up stream storage and dry season irrigation was to
come later. These were the precursors of the two projects under audit in
this report.
19.       No further loans were made in the period 1967-1972. The first
twenty years of Bank-supported projects began to come on stream, providing
an improved but by no means "high tech" irrigation technology. The impact
of all this began in the 1960s below the Chai Nat diversion dam in the Chao
Phya plain. A partial picture of what was happening at that time can be
obtained from the first audit report produced by OED in 1980.  i8/  The
water from Sirikit dam had become available in 1972 and, together with the
water from the earlier completed Bhumiphol dam (1965), was having a large
impact on dry season irrigation in the Chao Phya Plain.
In 1972, the area of dry-season cropping was about 107,000 ha.
compared with a potential of about 450,000 ha. which could be
supplied with water from Bhumiphol and Sirikit reservoirs. However,
since 1972 the dry-season cropped area has grown rapidly and reached
about 400,000 ha. in 1978. This was largely due to a sharp increase
in vaddY Rrices which rose from USS45 Rer ton in 1972 to USS115 ner
ton in 1978. providing strong incentives to farmers. About 200,000
ha. of the dry-season cropped area is now irrigated by low-lift pumps
in the Southern Chao Phya plain in areas formerly devoted to a single
wet-season crop of flood-dependent rice. In these areas farmers have
given up wet-season cultivation in favor of dry-season cropping. The
remaining 200,000 ha. are double cropped, of which 150,000 ha. are
irrigated by gravity and 50,000 ha. by low-lift pumps.
When large amounts of dry season water became available in the Chao Phya
Basin in the mid 60s and early 70s, farmers began to switch to dry-season
rice cropping slowly at first and then rapidly after the Sirikit flows
became available in 1972. The years 1968-72 were years of low domestic
rice prices, and the incentive to grow more rice was not great even with
the Bhumiphol dry-season flows commencing in the mid 1960s. The switch
accelerated after the relatively high price year of 1973 in which nominal
domestic prices increased by 44 percent and in real terms increased by 25
percent. Compared to 1978, the real increase over 1972 was a respectable
28 percent (not the more than doubling implied in the text of the PPAR
above where current prices, rather than constant prices, are compared). 12/
The point is that the PPAR did pick up the significance of domestic prices
on the extent of intensification the farmers were willing to undertake.
8Jt  Thailand:  Sirikit Dam and Chao Phya (First) Irrigation Improvement
(Loan 514-TH and Credit 379-TH), Project Performance Audit Report,
OED, Report No. 2850, Feb. 14, 1980.
L9/  Thailand:  Pricing and Marketing Policy for Intensification of Rice
Agriculture, World Bank Country Study, 1985, Table 1, page 13.



11
20.       The other point is a frequently overlooked addition to rice
growing technology at the time - the axial-flow low-lift pump. Of the
400,000 ha. of dry-season cropping undertaken in the Chao Phya Basin by
1978, about 250,000 was achieved with the use of locally manufactured low-
lift pumps delivering the dry season water to fields from canals, drains,
borrow pits, road-side ditches and ponds. In the absence of tertiary
delivery systems, the local farmers found an "appropriate" technology to
help them make use of the water that was spread widely over the countryside
by the primary and secondary canal and drainage system that had been put
into place.
21.       Domestic production of these simple and inexpensive pumps
commenced in 1957. By 1967 it was estimated that there were 80,000 in
operation, mostly in the Central Plain. By 1975, the number had increased
to 176,000. In 1983 there were estimated to be over 600,000 in operation,
one unit for every 15 ha. of planted rice area, rain-fed and irrigated. ZQ/
While these, and an additional 260,000 centrifugal pumps, were not all used
for growing rice, a great deal of them were. The extraordinary fact is
that this technological innovation has received hardly any formal
recognition by irrigation engineers in Thailand. It seems only to be
discussed by the farm mechanization profession. The fact that Thai farmers
had, in the late 1960s, partially solved the problem of how to deliver
water from a system of primary and secondary canals and drains if the price
of rice was attractive has escaped those interested in modern irrigation
technology. 21/  It was not the way the Japanese did it. 22/  While the
IRRI people did pick up the potential significance of this technology in
1983 in both Thailand and Vietnam, the economic analysis they performed
showed only the superiority of the design over conventional centrifugal
0/  "The Axial-Flow Low-Lift Pump in Thailand", by W. Chinsuwan and B.J.
Cochran, in Small Farm Equipment for DeveloRing Countries,
International Rice Research Institute, Manila, 1986.
21/  Plusquellec points out the use of pumping in the lower Chao Phya and
the beneficial effect on water use efficiency but does not suggest
that this is something to be encouraged or exploited. See:
Irrigation Design and Management: Experience in Thailand and Its
General Applicability, World Bank Technical Paper Number 40, 1985, p.
31. He does the same thing in describing the desireable
characteristics of the low-lift pump delivery technology in Egypt but
notes that the technology raises the farmer's production costs (as
does the use of fertilizer). See: Improving the Operations of Canal
Irrigation Systems: An Audiovisual Production, The Economic
Development Institute, World Bank, March 1988, p. IR 40.
22/  This is not strictly the case.  In fact the Japanese may have been
the first to use this technology successfully in the Saga Plain rice
growing area in the 1920s. See: "The Development of New Techniques
in Agriculture: The Case of the Mechanization of Irrigation in the
Saga Plain Area of Japan" by Penelope Francks in: World Development,
1979, Volume 7, pp. 531-539.



12
pumps and the appropriateness of its use in low-lift operations. 23/ The
possibility that canal (and drain) delivery systems might be consciously
designed to incorporate this technology was not noted. 2/
V. The Middle Years 1973-1980
22.       In the first seventeen years of Bank lending, six projects were
undertaken. In the seven-year period 1973-1980, eight more projects were
undertaken. Development of water resources, and the Bank's participation
in that development, was accelerating. In the Chao Phya a series of three
projects were undertaken. The emphasis was on finishing the work begun by
approaching seriously the Japanese level of technological sophistication.
In 1973 a pilot project on 17,000 ha. was undertaken (CR 379-TH). The idea
was to build on the experience of a 1,800 ha. Netherlands-financed
experiment in intensive on-farm development and land consolidation and a
700 ha. Taiwan-financed experience. If only the water control was
dependable and precise enough and the fields were reshaped and leveled
enough, the Thai farmer would employ other inputs to finally achieve the
sort of "high-tech" operation that was associated with four to five ton per
ha. yields.
23.       This was followed in 1977 by a large-scale adaptation of
intensive on-farm development for 63,000 ha. in the North Chao Phya Plain
(LN 1468-TH), together with rehabilitation and improvement of the canal
systems serving 138,000 ha. in the same area. The rehabilitation was to
make up for the maintenance that was not being done on the earlier project
and the improvement was to raise canal levels and improve the "command"
area. In 1975, the Phitsanulok Project (LN 1149-TH) was undertaken in the
extreme north of the plain above the Chai Nat diversion dam. It would take
dry season water from the Sirikit storage dam before it reached the main
part of the Chao Phya Basin and irrigate an additional 93,000 ha in the dry
season. Given the World Bank's international rice price projections and
plausible intensity and yield figures, all of these projects we-e
economically feasible. It was also assumed that the high econo.:ic prices
would be reflected in higher farm-gate prices and that farmers net crop
income would at least double and possibly triple.
23i There is some question as to where the axial flow pump was first
developed and commercialized for rice production, Thailand or Viet
Nam.  For the Viet Nam experience see:  "The Motor Pump:  A case
Study of Innovation and Development", by R. L. Sanson, Oxford
Economic Papers (New Series), 1969, Vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 109-121.
24i "Comparative Advantages of Axial-Flow Pumps over Centrifugal Pumps
for Low-Lift Irrigation", IRRI and MA-IRRI Industrial Extension
Program for Small Farm Equipment, Manila, Report No. IEP-6, Feb. 7,
1983.
The Audit has been informed that numerous observers of the Thai
irrigation scene had pointed out in the early 1970s the effectiveness
of this farmer-initiated approach, but it never received formal
recognition or Bank support as it did in the case of Bangladesh.



13
24.       The other five projects supported by the Bank during this period
were two "improvement" projects in the North East of Thailand (CR 461-TH
and LN 1630-TH), the Ban Chao Nan hydro and storage project in the Mae
Klong Basin (LN 977-TH), The Khao Laem hydro project also in the Mae Klong
Basin (LN 1770-TH) and the Pattani hydro and storage project in the far
South (LN 1485-TH). The projects in the North East were relatively small
and were in a completely different climatic and soil zone of the country.
The other three hydro projects were to be important storage facilities for
the irrigation projects under audit in this report.
25.       In early 1976 a six man mission from the Bank visited Thailand
for about a month to prepare an Irrigation Program Review. 25/ It was the
first comprehensive review of the irrigation subsector and was necessitated
largely by the accelerating lending program and the severe difficulties
encountered with implementation. It is an illuminating document in that it
gives a good picture of the nature of the thinking that was going on at
that time. The document is pure technology and physical planning and is
completely devoid of any economic considerations. This is probably because
the robust economics of irrigation development were already well-
documented in previous staff appraisal reports and the economist's role in
such a mission was considered redundant. Rice production became a simple
function of domestic consumption and exports. Consumption became a
function of population. Export levels were then determined either by
assuming a constant share of Bank projections of international rice trade
or a constant level of exports. By 1990 the country needed to produce 22.7
million tons of paddy. In 1976 it produced 15.1 million tons. Therefore,
a 7.6 million ton increase was required over a 14 year period. A
combination of yield, intensity and new area increases would do the job.
The linkage between irrigation, yields and cropping intensity was assumed
and the required increases in wet season and dry season coverage resulted.
This could then be translated into specific projects. The problem then was
how to get RID reorganized to put the new capacity into place. It was an
engineering-management approach that was adequate, up to a point, by
today's standards and completely adequate for the times.
26.       The major flaw in the underlying analysis was the estimate of
future domestic consumption. Per capita rice consumption was projected to
increase from 165 kg in 1976 to 170 kg in 1990 requiring an extra three
million tons by 1990 for consumption. In fact the per capita consumption
has steadily declined since the early 1970s reaching a level of 138 kg in
1982/83. 26/  This decline was already in evidence by 1976, with a peak
consumption level of 182 kg in 1970/71. 27. The entire consumption and
export demand picture for rice, which drove the resulting irrigation
investment program received one and a half pages of text and one table in
the entire document. In a twenty-six page annex on agriculture there is no
2/  Thailand:  Irrigation Program Review, Irrigation and Area Development
Division, Regional Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office, Report No. 1397a-TH, December 1976.
26/ 1986 Irrigation Subsector Review, Table 5.1, p. 43.
2/  1976 Irrigation Program Review, Table 3.2, p. 23.



14
discussion of prices or government policy affecting prices. The simple and
more defensible assumption that per capita rice consumption would stay
constant would have nearly halved the increment in required production. A
declining consumpticn rate would have raised serious questions about the
urgency of the irrigation investment program. This latter possibility is
handled by the following statement:
If actual production starts of get ahead of domestic consumption and
export needs, it would be easier to scale down the irrigation program
accordingly than to increase it in the face of major shortfalls.
The above quote is particularly revealing of the narrow and fundamental
assumption that irrigation investment, and the lack of it, is what
increases or decreases rice production in Thailand. There was no place for
consideration of world market prices or, more importantly, farm-gate
prices. L/
27.       The document did pick up the fact that even though the Northern
Chao Phya Basin had received most of the irrigation investments for dry-
season cropping, the big increases in dry season production had mostly
(over 60X) come from the Southern Plain where farmers, receiving dry season
water from Sirikit and Bhumiphol Dams, had abandoned low-yielding wet-
season rice subject to flood damage to irrigate high-yielding dry-season
rice with water pumped from improved drainage canals. The early Bank-
supported investments in dry season storage were paying off, but not quite
the way the engineers had anticipated.
28.       The Review also made the first mention of a serious developing
problem: Dry-season water in the Chao Phya was limited and needed to be
allocated between regions and projects as well as within project areas.
Without dry-season water and dry-season benefits, it would be difficult to
justify more irrigation investments in the Chao Phya Basin. For a specific
project, the problem was how to allocate scarce dry season water. The
report points out that the revealed policy of water allocation was to allow
those close to the canal system to get water in the dry season. This led
to ribbon development along main canals and laterals. A preferable
alternative would be the "Golongan" system of Indonesia where all dry
season water is delivered to a particular sub area every two or three years
on a rotational basis. The latter required RID control and farmer
discipline and cooperation, all of which were missing. Farmer damage was
substantfal and water user groups were not working. Rent-seeking behavior
was clearly manifest. Unfortunately, the fundamental incentives for this
behavior, i.e. free scarce water allocated by a canal bureaucracy was not
recognized. Instead, the hope was that the problem could be lemedied with
a reorganization of RID, allocation of adequate O&M funds, well-trained and
motivated operational staff, better planning and monitoring, and above all
2Lf_/ The Audit is not trying to make the equally extreme point that the
farm-gate price of rice is the only determinate of production levels.
The provision of supplemental wet-season and dry-season water in the
Chao Phya, agriculture extension services, and the post 1972 rice
price regime interacted to produce an impressive macro economic
result.



15
a level of canal delivery and distribution technology that would allow
precise on-time delivery of scarce water. Good management and good
engineering would set things right. 29/ 30/
29,       The other useful document dealing with this time is the first
audit report of an irrigation project in Thailand, produced by OED in early
1980.  II/  It reports on the 1967 Sirikit Dam Project and the 1973 Chao
Phya Irrigation Improvement Project. The 1973 project was a small (17,000
ha) scheme designed to demonstrate ways to overcome the pre 1972 slow
growth of dry season cropping in the North Chao Phya Plain. Since the
cropping intensity quickly went to 190 percent a year after completion it
was judged a technological success. The audit then pointed out:
It is now apparent that the low paddy price prevailing prior to 1972
was the main constraint on the use of dry-season water.
30. Of more concern to the 1980 audit was the basin-wide shortage of dry-
season water in the Chao Phya.
There is not even enough water to obtain full benefits from the last
two Bank-assisted projects: Phitsanulok (Loan 1149) and Chao Phya II
(Loan 1468).
Why did the Bank approve two loans (Loan 1149 of 1975 and Loan 1468
of 1977) for irrigation projects which would push water demand beyond
the overall basin's water availability ceiling...?
The audit provides a partial explanation:
The Bank's decision to support the Chao Phya I project was made
before the spontaneous expansion of dry season cropping and its
implications became apparent. The decision on Phitsanulok was made
when some information was already suggesting that water supply might
not be fully adequate for the project. However, both the cropping
trend and its implications were fully apparent when the Chao Phva II
Rroiect was appraised in 1976. 12/
For the case of Chao Phya II Project, undertaken in 1977, no satisfactory
explanation was ever given. It was the last Bank-supported expansion
scheme to be undertaken in the Chao Phya Basin.
29   1979 Irrigation Program Review, Annex 2, p. 21.
3/  For an alternative view of the same developments during this period
see paragraph 4 of Annex 1.
31/  Thailand:  Sirikit Dam and Chao Phya (First) Irrigation Improvement
(Loan 514-TH and Credit 379-TH), Project Performance Audit Report,
OED, Report No. 2850, Feb. 14, 1980.
32/  Audit's emphasis.



16
31.       By 1978, efforts were being made to reduce tne size of the dry-
season planting in the Chao Phya Basin to match the water available. The
size of the crop in that year actu-Ily increased. The same thing happened
in 1979. In the serious drought year of 1980, the cut-back finally took
place but it is not know if this was due to administrative efforts or the
physical lack of water. By 1981 the dry-season crop area was at a record
level and RID now has the permanent "problem" of dealing with too much dry-
season cropping capacity and too little water. 13/ i4/
VI. The End of an Era 1980-90: The Mae Klong and Pattani
32.       By the late 1970s, it was clear that the large-scale irrigation
development of the Chao Phya had gone too far. Too large an area was
served by irrigation infrastructure though critics were quick to point out
that it all needed "modernizing" if the full benefits of the investment
were ever to be realized. In the 1980s attention then turned to the water-
surplus Mae Klong Basin which had begun the main diversion dam in 1965 (LN
394-TH) and the first upstream storage dam in 1974 (LN 977-TH). A second
hydro and storage dam was undertaken in 1980, the Khao Lam Project (LN
1710-TH). The pattern was similar to that followed in the Chao Phya Basin:
first a diversion dam and canal system for spreading wet season flows,
followed by upstream storage to firm up wet season flows and provide dry
season water, followed by more upstream storage. The stage was then set
for the development of the Mae Klong in a manner that would avoid the
shortcomings experienced in the Chao Phya. It was also time to follow up
on the Pattani hydro investment of 1977 (LN 1485-TH) in the extreme south
of the country where the storage provided for generating electricity could
also be used for irrigation.
f3/ In order to provide efficient irrigation in the wet season in high
rainfall areas it is generally the case that the wet season
infrastructure coverage exceeds what can be served in the dry season.
In this sense the develonment was to be expected and, up to a point,
can be justified provided it is considered explicitly in the economic
analyses. Theoretically optimal supplemental wet season irrigation
in relatively high tainfall areas does, however, raise serious social
and technical problems. There is the obvious problem of rationing
water in the dry season. Less obvious, but potentially more serious,
is a wet season drought leading to serious farmer damage to the
infrastructure, a classic case of rent-seeking behavior. See: India
Irrigation Sector Review: Irrigation Management on the Tndo-Gangetic
nlain, by D. J. W. Berkhoff, Asia Technical Department, World Bank,
June 7, 1990.
.4/ For a good description of the Chao Phya Basin problem see: "Water
Management in Transition - Lessons from Central Thailand" by J. E.
Cowley, in: Proceedings of the Third Annual Agriculture Sector
Symposium 1982, World Bank Technical Paper No. 1.



17
VII. Project Objectives. Definition and Design
33.       Both the Mae Klong and Pattani projects were on-going operations
whose overall dimensions had been decided many years earlier. In most
cases a good deal of engineering and construction had already been done.
The task was to rehabilitate, upgrade and expand - complete what had been
started and repair what had not been maintained. Irrigation XI comprised
the Mae Klong Right Bank Scheme and the Pattani Right Bank Scheme, while
Irrigation XII was for the Mae Klong Left Bank scheme only. In terms of
technology, the idea was to provide a form of on-farm development (OFD) for
66,000 ha. on the Mae Klong Right Bank, 27,000 ha. on the Mae Klong Left
Bank, and 15,000 ha. on the Pattani Right Bank, a total of 108,000 ha. The
OFD proposed would give most plots direct access to a tertiary canal which
commanded the surrounding land. Intensive on-farm development which
involved land leveling and boundary realignments to effect efficient grid
patterns of the Japanese model was too costly to consider. 35/ The plots
would have access to supplemental wet-season water and adequate dry-season
water to allow improved wet season rice yields and a high yielding second
crop in the dry season.
Proiect Brief
34.       At the Project Brief stage (1979) for Irrigation XI, RID had
already constructed the main canals and laterals to serve about 43,000 ha
out of a 66,000 ha service area. The Bank was to finance the completion of
the irrigation and drainage system for this area on the Right Bank of the
Mae Klong. In addition, RID had also completed the Right Main Canal of the
Pattani project in the South. This canal was to serve 18,000 ha of farm
land. Again, the Bank's financing was to support the completion of the
secondary canals and tertiary system for this 18,000 ha service area.
There were no issues to be resolved. According to the Irrigation XII
Project Brief (1980), only the Malaiman area on the left bank of the Mae
Klong was to be served. A 60,000 ha service area of paddy land was to be
irrigated. Three quarters of the intended service area already grew wet-
season rice and one quarter produced a high-yielding dry-season crop by
irrigation provided by low-lift pumps from nearby streams, canals and
drains. The two issues identified at that stage were finance (too large a
loan for the lending program) and the difficulty with cost recovery.
Issues-Decision
35.       At the Issues-Decision stage for Irrigation XI  there had been
no changes in the Mae Klong subproject, reflecting the advanced preparation
of the project. For the Pattani subproject in the south, the service area
had been reduced from 18,000 ha to 15,000 ha because of the discovery of
3,000 ha of sandy soils unsuitable for irrigation. While it was not raised
in tha Issues Paper, the Decision Memo discusses the desirability of che
Government imposing some direct charges on water users to make some
D5/  The Japanese aid program (JICA) financed intensive pilot projects on
both banks of the Mae Klong and the results verified the extremely
high and uneconomic cost of land leveling and land consolidation that
is a characteristic of this technology.



18
contribution towards O&M costs. The zero user charge regime that prevailed
was also an obvious incentive to use scarce water inefficiently. ii/ The
decision was to try to get the Government to do something. For Irrigation
XII, the 60,000 ha service area had been reduced to 27,000 ha in order to
scale down the loan size. The Issues Paper notes that sugar cane is as
important a crop as paddy in the service area but that only the paddy area
would receive priority attention. No issues needed resolution. The
Decision Memorandum concentrated on the need to reorganize RID so that
there was clear responsibility for the delivery of water to farmer's
fields. Intensive on-farm development required skills and resources
different from the earlier construction-oriented water-spreading
operations, a position that was, in retrospect, insightful and accurate. A
penned note from the Senior Vice President of Operations exhorted staff to
move on these long-overdue institutional issues.
Negotiations
36.       At Negotiations for Irrigation XI, the cost recovery issue was
addressed. It was agreed that enabling legislation would be drafted
promptly and that a capital cost recovery study should be completed by
1982. For Irrigation XII, the cost recovery issue was also raised. The
Government informed the Bank that the enabling legislation had been drafted
and approved by the Cabinet. Subject to the Dassing of the legislation,
the Government would (i) submit proposals for O&M fees by June 1982, (ii)
collect O&M charges from individual farmers within one year of tertiary
system completion, (iii) submit proposals for capital recovery charges by
December 1984, and (iv) collect capital recovery charges from individual
farmers within three years of completion of tertiary systems.
Reorganization of RID was also discussed. The Bank enquired about the
impact of the 1979 Organization and Administration Study. The Government
had set up a subcommittee to consider the matter. A Plan of Action was to
be prepared by January 1982 to assist in implementing the subcommittee's
recommendations.
Economic and linancial Justification
37.       The economics of the lending operations were pretty straight-
forward. Cropping intensities were to rise from 105 to 190 percent in Mae
Klong Right Bank, 100 percent to 170 percent in Pattani Right Bank and from
100 percent to 178 percent in Malaiman - Mae Klong Left Bank. Dry season
paddy yields would achieve 4.2 tons per ha in Mae Klong Right Bank, 3.5
tons per ha in Pattani and 4.0 tons per ha in Malaiman. The Irrigation XI
SAR utilized the World Bank's price projections for rice in 1990 and showed
ii/ The position that the effective rice export tax, pre 1982, was a
surrogate user charge imposed on commercial rice farmers is
defensible on equity grounds but not on economic efficiency grounds.
The marginal cost of unpumped canal water is near zero and the
incentives for destructive rent-seeking behavior undiminished.



19
a fifty percent increase in real terms over 1980 levels.  DJZ  The
Irrigation XII SAR showed a 17 percent increase in 1990 over 1981
levels. it/ The quite good sensitivity analyses that accompanied the
economic analyses showed that for, Irrigation XI, only a 55 percent
decrease in rice rices from 1980 to 1990 would render the investment
uneconomic. A similar analysis for Irrigation XII indicated that only a 26
percent decrease in real terms from 1981 to 1990 would render the
investment uneconomic. These were considered, at the time, to be highly
unlikely events.
38.       On the farmer incentive side the 1979 Irrigation XI SAR displays
a partial understanding of the impact of Government tax and export policies
on domestic prices. The Irrigation XI SAR shows an effective 1980 export
tax of Baht 1580 per ton of rice which converts to about Baht 975 per
equivalent ton of paddy. With a domestic (input price of paddy at mill)
financial price of paddy of Baht 2600 per ton, the effective export tax is
37 percent of the domestic price. A year later, the Irrigation XII SAR
shows an effective 1981 export tax of Baht 2400 per ton of rice which
converts to about Baht 1560 per ton of paddy. The domestic financial price
of paddy is Baht 4,000 per ton so the effective export tax is about 39
percent of the domestic paddy price. In Siamwalla et al, the total
effective paddy export tax in 1980 and 1981 is estimated at Baht 1525 and
Baht 1742 per ton respectively while the domestic paddy prices are
estimated at Baht 3403 and Baht 3951. This yields tax percentages of 45
percent and 44 percent in 1980 and 1981 respectively. The difference is
the value of the so called "quota rent" that exporters must pay to obtain
export quotas. Since this is an unofficial tax that is imputed from market
data it does not find its way into conventional farm budget analysis. In
the peak world price years of 1973 and 1974 quota rents were estimated to
be respectively 36 percent and 20 percent of the total effective export tax
in those years. In 1980 and 1981 they were estimated to be 18 percent and
13 percent of the effective export tax. This element of the effective
export tax was (understandably) excluded from the SAR analyses.
39.       More important on the farmer incentive side is the assumption
that farm-gate prices would be allowed to rise just as world market prices
were predicted to. Thus, in the SAR for Irrigation XI financial farm-gate
prices were assumed to increase in real terms by 45 percent over the period
1980-90 and remain at that increased level thereafter. A year later with
Irrigation XII the assumed growth of the same factor over the period 1981-
90 was a more modest, but still a substantial 18 percent. These
assumptions, together with the cropping intensity and yield assumptions led
to approximately a doubling of net farm income for Irrigation XI and a
doubling of net small-farm (2 ha) income and a tripling of large (5 ha) net
farm income with Irrigation XII. Thus, both the economic and the financial
y1/  Thailand:  Irrigation Project XI Staff ApRraisal ReRort, Report No
2622-TH, Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office,
November 26, 1979, p. 33.
18/  Thailand:  Twelfth Irrigation Project Staff Appraisal Renort, Report
No. 3277-TH, Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office, June 1, 1981, p.25.



20
analyses were consistent. The fundamental assumption that allowed such an
outcome in the financial analyses was that Government effective export tax
rates would remain constant for the future anG would not rise with rising
prices and drop with declining prices. To do otherwise would have required
a very careful eco.-metric analysis of past effective export taxes and this
(again understandable) is not the sort of detail that can be incorporated
into conventional irrigation project analyses.
Engineering and Technology
40.        The engineering and technology associated with these schemes is
worth noting at this stage as it becomes much more of an issue in the
latter stages of this report. The basic design incorporated open canal
gravity flow technologies with upstream control structures that assumed
that the operators of the system could match the demand for water with the
supply by manipulating the various control structures at the primary,
secondary and tertiary level. Thus, a part of the scheme that had just
experienced intensive rainfall would not receive water, while dry areas
needing water would receive it. A public, salaried canal bureaucracy would
integrate the feedback from the farm fields with the supply of water and
the needed gate settings.
41.       In the case of the Mae Klong, this process was to be computer
assisted and the program and its use was given the name of Water Allocation
Scheduling and Monitoring System, the WASM System. It was a simplified
version of the Pasten system developed by the Dutch in colonial Indonesia
before the age of the computer. 19/  An integral part of such a system is
the ability to send measured flows of water down a particular canal in
response to demands. This means that certain key control structures must
be able to allow measured flows to pass, not unlike a meter/valve in a pipe
system. In open canal systems various techniques are used to set these
measured flows. In the case of the Mae Klong, Dutch engineers were
designing the system and they incorporated the Romijn weir, an overshot
moveable bed wier invented by the Dutch for the Indonesian systems in the
1930's, into the system. It can, in the hands of a trained operator, be
used to allocate a measured flow fror a main channel into a branch channel.
In the case of the Pattani scheme, de-igned by an American firm, the basic
flow measuring device was to be the constant head orifice (CHO), an
undershot double-gate developed for use in U.S irrigation systems by the
Bureau of Reclamation. Like the Romijn weir it too could, in the hands of
a trained operator, allocate measured flows. The CHO was incorporated in
much of the early irrigation systems of Thailand largely because of the
influence of the U.S. Aid program and the engineers associated with that
effort. The WASM computer-assisted system of water allocation was also
eventually specified for implementation at Pattani.
42.       It is also interesting to note at this point that the Project
Brief for Irrigation XII stated that twenty-five percent of the project
D9/ For a detailed description of the Pasten system see: Study of
Irrigation System Management, International Irrigation Management
Institute, Digana Village via Kandy, October 1987, Annex 6, pp. 197-
203.



21
area was already irrigated by low-lift pumps in the dry season to produce a
high yielding rice crop. LQ/ Nothing was made of this spontaneous use of
an appropriate technology except to assume that it would be displaced by a
free gravity canal system.
Politics
43.       The Mae Klong basin is one of the more favored areas in Thailand
due partly to its natural resources of soil and water and partly because of
its proximity to the major urban area of Bangkok. Crop diversification is
well advanced because of the market for fresh fruits and vegetables in
nearby Bangkok and because of a variety of appropriate soil types.
44.       It is also the location of much of the sugar milling capacity in
the country. Sugar cane is an important and profitable crop because
government pricing policies have made it so. As the Japanese have done
with rice, the Thais have done with sugar. The domestic price of sugar in
Thailand is higher than the world price because imports are not allowed and
cannot compete with domestic production to drive prices down. The various
local sugar mills compete for their share of the domestic market, which is
very profitable, and export what they cannot sell domestically at low world
market prices. The larger the domestic share of production the mill has,
the more profitable the operation. Just as the annual rice price decision
is an important event in Japan, the annual cane price and domestic sugar
price decision is an important event in Thailand. This is a political
event with financial and economic implications. 4/ The Bank generally
stays out of projects where economic efficiency is of secondary importance
and support of the sugar industry has not been high on the list of areas
where help is needed. The presence of large sugar cane producers (67,000
ha.) in the Mae Klong Left Bank then presented a problem since they too
would benefit from the free irrigation infrastructure as would the poor
rice farmers (63,000 ha.). This was dealt with by limiting the areas of
Bank-supported development to a portion of the rice growing area (27,000
ha) and by not providing the tertiary canals and drains to serve the cane
growing areas in the project. Outlet structures would be provided, but the
cane growers would have to construct and maintain their own water delivery
system. The emphasis was on paddy production. 42./
45.       The situation in Pattani was very different.  The area is far
from Bangkok, just north of the Malaysia border and many of the farmers
have strong cultural affinities to the Malay speaking Muslims to the South,
making them a minority group in the country as a whole. In addition, the
AQ/ Project Brief, July 31, 1980.
A4/  For an explanation of the exceedingly complicated, government-managed
sugar subsidy system see: The Political Economy of Agricultural
Pricing Policy: Trade. Exchange Rate, and Agricultural Pricing
Policies in Thailand, by Ammar Siamwalla and Suthad Setboonsarng,
World Bank Comparative Studies, 1989, Ch. 3, pp. 69-92.
AV/ For an alternative view of the sugar situation see paragraph 2 of
Annex 1.



22
Malaysia border area on both sides was the site of insurgent activities
during the 1950s and 60s that both countries eventually controlled with
successful efforts at pacification and economic development. Per capita
incomes in the area were lower than the national average and poverty
alleviation and regional development were major -overnment concerns.
Infrastructure in the form of roads, electric po_r, schools, clinics and
irrigation were part of this initiative. The case for doing something in
this area went well beyond the desire to increase paddy production
VIII. Proiect Implementation
46.       In the Mae Klong Right and Left Bank projects, most of the
primary and secondary rehabilitation and extension works were completed.
However, of the 66,000 ha service area of the Right Bank, only 37,700 ha of
the tertiaries and on-farm development (OFD) took place. On the Left Bank,
only 22,000 ha of the original 27,000 ha service area was covered with the
OFD work. Overall for the Mae Klong, only 62 percent of the tertiary
system was put into place by the time of loan closing in late 1988. The
problem here was that about 38 percent of the farmers either did not want
or could not agree on the high tech tertiary development that required land
without compensation. iL/
47.       In the Pattani scheme the problem was more serious:  the farmers
initially did not want any on-farm development. Only 4,300 ha.of a planned
15,000 ha. of OFD was completed some nine years after the loan was signed
and OFD development continues well after loan closing. The main and
secondary canals were delayed also because of contract administration
problems.
48.       The problem with OFD acceptance came as a shock to the engineers
trying to implement the projects. After the fifth supervision mission of
Irrigation XII in 1985 the problem of actually making the system work as
designed was beginning to be apparent. In the Mae Klong it was assumed
that the lack of cooperation of the farmers stemmed from their lack of
understanding of how the OFD would benefit them. An intensive program of
farmer training was subsequently undertaken together with the WASM
initiative. The consultants made an all out effort to address the problem
of farmer resistance and mobile teams of educators were fielded with audio-
visual presentations designed to explain the benefits of the project and
allay fears. In the Pattani scheme things were more serious. There was a
fundamental lack of trust between the engineers and the farmer
beneficiaries. Accepting tertiary development meant giving up title to
scarce land without compensation to the government before getting the civil
works. To do this requires not only the belief that the civil works are
beneficial but that they will in fact be put in place. To build trust
requires more time and effort than building canals. This is being
accomplished at Pattani, but at a pace much slower than env.sioned in the
project proposal.
L./  For a more positive view of this development see paragraph 6 of
Annex 1.



23
49.       Two other sources of delay were the protracted procedures
involved in letting contracts in Thailand and the need to resurvey areas
where the original surveys were not adequate. The former problem was
expected and progress in RID administrative reform was expected to
alleviate it. The latter problem came as an unpleasant surprise. However,
it was "lack of farmer cooperation" that has provided the bulk of the
explanation for why Irrigation XI's closing date was extended three years
and that of Irrigation XII by two years without nearly approaching complete
OFD coverage in the service areas.
50.       Progress in the area of the much sought after RID administrative
reform was monitored early in the supervision cycle of Irrigation XII where
an action plan and attention to implementation of the plan was a specific
covenant in the Loan Agreement. A public administration expert accompanied
the first supervision mission in November 1981. He produced a thoughtful
analysis in an annex to the main report. The basic thrust of the report
was that the 1979 consultant recommendations promoting decentralization and
delegation of authority by the Director General was counter to the Thai
bureaucratic tradition of highly centralized control and that progress was
likely to continue to be slow since the issue was being taken up by a
series of committees. In April 1982 an RID Action Plan was submitted to
the Bank. There was a flurry of activity in the Bank to follow up on the
RID initiative and the same public administration expert accompanied the
second supervision mission. In their report of January 1983 it was stated
that a separate working paper on public administration would be issued.
There is no copy on file. In the third supervision mission report of July
1983 the issue received one paragraph to the effect that some more draft
plans were being prepared. The issue was eventually given less attention
than the problem of implementation of the OFD component.
51.       The other big institutional objective was to begin to collect
irrigation user charges. This was a covenant under the Irrigation XI Loan
Agreement. The enabling legislation had been drafted and approved by the
Cabinet prior to negotiations. Everything hinged on the passing of the
proposed law by the Thai legislature. Since this never happened, the
detailed agreements for implementation were never triggered. A free water
policy continues to be the official position of the Thai government.
52.       During implementation of the Mae Klong Left Bank under
Irrigation XII a particular issue rose that gives a very useful insight
into the thinking of canal engineers at the time. In October 1984 the
question was raised by Bank staff concerning the extraordinary amount of
fill required in order to "command" the service area of sublaterals 3R, 5L,
and 2L. Full supply level (FSL) was one to three meters above ground level
because of pockets of high ground that were to be served. The suggestion
was made that the FSL be reduced and the pockets of high ground served by
pumps, thereby saving millions of cubic meters of earth excavation and
compacted fill. In December 1984 the consultant's response was received.
They agreed that reducing the FSL by 0.5 meters would leave about 270 ha.
"out of command". Not serving these areas with water above ground level,
regardless of the cost, was considered to be undesirable since those not



24
receiving this facility would cause problems and serving scattered areas by
pumping was not fea-'1le. This was the end of the discussion. A./
IX. Project Outcome
53.       In the end, $25.6 million of the $80.0 million Irrigation XI was
cancelled, while $22.6 million of the $57.0 million Irrigation XII was
cancelled. The retrospective rates of return of the two Mae Klong projects
are now in the 7-8 percent range while that of the Pattani scheme is around
5 percent. This assumes that another 7,000 ha. of the Mae Klong Right Bank
OFD work will eventually be done after loan closing and another 9,000 ha.
of the Pattani OFD work will be accomplished. If one considers the heavy
pre-project sunk costs excluded from the economic analyses then the
economics of these high tech schemes providing wet and dry-season water are
not very impressive. Not only is the price of rice low at the farm gate,
it is now so low in the world market that even with the assumptions
concerning yields and cropping intensities actually taking place, the
economics of such schemes no longer make a persuasive case for going
forward.
54.       Added to this sobering development is the evidence that the high
tech elements of the system that have been implemented are not at all being
used as the engineers intended. Few of the key structures in the Mae Klong
and the Pattani have been calibrated - so measuring the major flows is
impossible even if it were desired. 45i Despite the assertion ir. the PCRs
that the WASM system was a success and should be implemented throughout the
country, it was quite clear to the Audit that it was not being used at all
to man.age the system either in the Mae Klong, where it was first developed,
or in the Pattani, where it was to be introduced. Most of the key
structures are not calibrated and many of the tertiary offtakes have been
damaged by farmers, especially in the Mae Klong. it/ In addition, RID is
A4/ The Region is of the opinion that in such circumstances it is
extremely important to have all the farmers supporting the irrigation
investment and this means giving each gravity service if technically
possible. Beyond this, there is the logistical problem of providing
pumps, spare parts and fuel in rural areas.
iLJ In the Pattani scheme many of the CHOs did not even have the second
gate installed which meant that the remaining gate was used simply in
an "on" or "off" position, something that could be accomplished with
a much simpler and less costly structure.
!ti/ RID does not keep an inventory of damaged or inoperable structures
but the Audits observation was that as many as ten percent of the
tertiary offtakes were damaged after only three years of operation.
Interestingly, the gate operators say that most of the farmer damage
takes place in the wet season when the irrigation is supplementary to
the usually substantial rainfall. This is consistent with the recent
findings by Berkhoff in the Indo-Gangetic plain. See: India
Irrigation Sector Review: Irrigation Management on the Indo-Gangetic
Plain, by D. J. W. Berkhoff, Asia Technical Department, World Bank,
June 7, 1990.



25
having great difficulty in recruiting, training and keeping gate operators
who could operate the system even if it were operable. The rapid private
sector industrial development of the country is attracting most of the
numerate graduates of technical schools. Finally, rent-seeking behavior on
the part of farmers is clearly present. Visible proof of this, beyond the
damaged control structures, is the numerous permanent pipe installations
that regularly pierce the primary and secondary canal banks to take water
on demand either by syphon or by pumping.
55.       In the end, approximately 7,300 ha of sugar cane benefitted from
the Bank-supported Mae Klong investments. The use of the irrigation system
for cane is enlightening since cane growers were not offered the OFD
facilities given the paddy farmers. The sugar farmers had already
supplemented the rainfall with tube well irrigation pre project. The
provision of free surface water in the dry season under the project was
welcomed as it displaced the farmer-financed tube well operations. Rather
than construct tertiaries to "command" the cane fields, the cane growers
chose to drop the water from the public off-takes into ditches leading to
the cane. From the ditches it is being pumped by low-lift pumps into the
furrows as required. Embankments, compaction, and field outlets were
avoided and the land lost for tertiaries was minimized.
56.       Another unique feature in the sugar area was the planned use of
night storage in the canal system. Instead of excavating borrow pits
outside the canal banks, the excavation took place between the canal banks
which were pushed to the extreme edge of the canal right-of-way. This
created a large pond or reservoir in the canal system right-of-way which
outlet was controlled by a downstream control structure. At night the
reservoir was charged so that in the morning the cane farmers could take
water out of the canal below the reservoir. As the level of the down
stream canal water dropped, the outlet control structure for the reservoir
automatically opened to release the night storage. This is a technology
dramatically different from that used in the rest of the Mae Klong. Rather
than upstream manual control by a canal bureaucracy it allows automatic
control driven by the real time downstream demand of the cane farmers. The
use of this simple mechanical technology together with ground level
tertiary ditches and low lift pump final delivery is an extremely
interesting manifestation of public and private cooperation employing
elegant engineering with local pump technology and farmer financial
incentives. For this reason the pilot sugar irrigation element of
Irrigation XII is one of the more interesting initiatives taken under the
project. Unfortunately, the experience is not taken up in the PCR because
the relatively well-off and subsidized cane farmers were not the main
thrust of the lending effort. The less well-off and taxed paddy farmers
were being treated to an entirely different engineering approach that
wasn't working very well.



26
X. Findings and Issues
The Macro Economic Picture
57.       The Bank got involved in supporting irrigated rice production in
Thailand during a period in which world market prices for rice were high
relative to Thai production costs and the revenues from the effective
export tax on rice were important for the public finances of the country.
When cost reducing irrigation infrastructure providing supplemental wet-
season and dry-season water came on the scene in the mid 1960s the high
rice tax and resulting low domestic price for rice militated against the
rapid intensification expected. More appropriate price incentives were
introduced from 1973 on, during a time of unprecedented high world market
prices. Paddy production, led by supplemental wet-season irrigation
production expanded steadily.
58.       On the export scene two important factors were operating.  Thai
population growth was slowing to 2.0 percent per year, and the per capita
consumption of rice was declining at roughly 2.0 percent per year.
Domestic rice consumption remained about constant over the ten year period
and the entire increment in output had to be exported. By 1982, when world
rice prices collapsed, Thai exports were about four times their 1972
levels. The tax wedge between world and domestic prices had shrunk to less
than ten percent and the Ministry of Commerce had much less flexibility in
manipulating domestic and world prices. By 1989, Thai rice exports
accounted for 41 percent of the international market and Thailand has
become the main player in that market, albeit at price levels about 50
percent lower in real terms than pre 1982 levels. The high cost producers
such as the U.S. are slowly leaving the market. Extremely low cost
producers such as Viet Nam are now entering the market. AZ/
Underlying Structural Changes
59.       Beyond the issues of farm-gate prices and free canal water,
developed above, it is possible to identify a number of important
structural changes that were taking place in the Thai economy and society
that were to have a great impact on how irrigation schemes were to perform.
These come under the headings (i) declining relative importance of rice,
(ii) part time farming, (iii) public sector skill shortages, and (iv) urban
and industrial competition for water.
60.       By the mid 1980s it was clear to the Thais (but not the Bank)
that world rice prices were likely to remain low for the indefinite
future. it/ Per capita rice consumption was declining as per capita income
increased. Rice exports were less important in a government revenue sense
42/  Review of Commodity Markets - December 1989, International Commodity
Markets Division, International Economics Department, The World Bank,
January 26, 1990, pp. 24-25.
L8/  Thailand Irrigation Subsector Review, Projects Department, East Asia
and Pacific Regional Office, Report No. 5847-TH, April 25, 1986, p.
49.



27
and in the balance of payments as other crops and manufactured exports
expanded. The economics of small scale irrigation were not good nor did
new large scale rice systems any longer make economic sense as they had in
the time of high world rice prices.  2./  In addition other low cost
producers are entering the world rice trade, China in some years and
recently Viet Nam. Crop diversification is seen as the next step in the
evolution of Thai irrigated agriculture. While rice production will always
be important, the simple days of irrigation for rice only are coming to an
end. Given the vigor of the Thai food processing industry and its links
with agriculture production, diversification will certainly come. The
question is what sort of irrigation technology is appropriate for the
future.
61.       Thai farmers have been obtaining over half their family income
from off-farm activities for many years and the poorer the rice farmer the
larger his off-farm share. aQ/  Rice farmers, especially poor rice farmers,
were part time farmers. They could not organize their lives around
irrigation operations and water user groups. That kind of cooperation
costs them time and money and, unlike the Japanese case, the cooperation
could not be bought with rice prices several times world prices. Had the
price incentives been offered, the problem then would have been what to do
with all the rice. Whatever technology is adopted for irrigation in
Thailand it will have to take into account the reality of a small scale
part time farming population with alternative productive uses for their
time. .j/ The on-demand piped systems that have evolved in Japan reflect
this reality there but their capital cost per ha. makes no sense
economically for rice production in Japan or Thailand.
62.       There is a growing demand by the rapidly expanding private
industrial sector for technically trained personnel. Public sector
organizations paying government wages are increasingly finding it difficult
to recruit and retain potentially skilled people. RID is finding it
difficult to recruit good irrigation engineers. Even more critical is the
shortage of people who can operate the high tech irrigation schemes that
exist now. Manual operation and twice-daily adjustment of thousands of
control structures requires intelligence and training. A large number of
these people are needed to operate the most up-to-date irrigation schemes
in the country but they are not available. Without them it makes little
A2/  Thailand Irrigation Subsector Review, Projects Department, East Asia
and Pacific Regional Office, Report No. 5847-TH, April 25, 1986, p.
60 for small-scale evidence and pages 105 and 106 for large and
medium scale.
50/  The Political Economy of Agricultural Pricing Policy:  Trade.
Exchange Rate. and Agricultural Pricing Policies in Thailand, by
Ammar Siamwalla and Suthad Setboonsarng, World Bank Comparative
Studies, 1989, Table 7.2, p. 192.
vJl   A recent survey in the North East has shown that farm sizes there are
actually beginning to increase. If this is true it may indicate that
farmers are beginning to leave agriculture permanently and that large
scale full-time farmers in fewer numbers are coming onto the scene.



28
sense to go through the fiction of a water allocation plan, with or without
computers. Whatever technology is adopted for public irrigation in
Thailand, it will also have to take into account this reality.
63.       There is increasing competition for scarce water by the urban
and industrial users of Thailand and a growing problem of water pollution
and water quality. For surface supplies the problem of a water shortage in
the Chao Phya basin is manifest. Inter basin transfers from the Mae Klong
to the Chao Phya are already caking place and other possibilities are
receiving increasing attention. Surface water is becoming increasingly
scarce and valuable yet its marginal cost for the fortunate few who receive
it at public expense is close to zero. As long as canal water is free it
is unlikely to be used efficiently and water intensive rice production in
the dry season will be encouraged even though prices are low and there may
be better uses for the water. Private groundwater development, such as
that undertaken by the sugar growers in the Mae Klong before Irrigation XI
and XII, is going to be discouraged as long as free canal water is
provided. Except for urban areas, the Thais have hardly addressed the
subject of ground water. 52/ The bias of the Government and RID for free
public surface canal irrigation systems will eventually have to be
reexamined for possible correction if the shortages become serious enough.
Modes of Thinking About Irrigation
64.       The dominant concept of irrigation in Thailand has been and
remains that of open canals delivering free water to the root zones of
plants by gravity. The means for doing this was through a large canal
bureaucracy dedicated to matching the demand for water with the supply by
frequent setting of gates and flow measuring devices. When demand exceeds
supply the same bureaucracy then applies a rationing system designed to
achieve an equitable distribution of the scarce water to the tens of
thousands of poor farmers who would otherwise be without water. This
simple and powerful paradigm has an inordinate appeal to engineers, civil
servants and politicians.
65.       After thirty years of continuously accumulating evidence that
the centrally controlled, fully-gated, gravity canal schemes are not
working as designed, they continue to be viewed as the orly way to do
business in Thailand. Privately, most irrigation engineers in Thailand
admit that almost none of the constant head orifice structures have ever
been used to measure flows as part of an overall water allocation plan.
Yet, in the case of the Pattani scheme, where the Right Bank experience has
been little short of disastrous, the Left Bank design is proceeding with
the constant head orifice as the main tertiary control structure. The
.agineers explain this apparently irrational action on the grounds that
"someday" it may be possible and desireable to measure water flows and the
facilities to do so will then be in place. In the mean time; the flow
measuring devices, which have not been broken by the farmers, are merely
2/  The World Bank provides the best coverage of the groundwater
situation in its 1986 Subsector Review. See: Thailand Irrigation
Subsector Review, Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office, Report No. 5847-TH, April 25, 1986, Chapter IV, pp 36-41.



29
used as costly gates in the "on" or "off" mode; farmers perforate the canal
banks with pipes for water on demand; and inexperienced gate operators
respond to farmer pressures. Reality bears little resemblance to the
paradigm and a form of populist anarchy reigns.
66.       The most common reaction to this charge is that of the engineers
designing the Pattani Left Bank system. There is nothing inherently wrong
with the idea of public, centrally controlled, fully-gated gravity canal
systems employing CHO control structures. It only needs attention to good
design, construction, maintenance, management and time for farmer
education. Eventually things will come right.
67.       For those who accept the local and international empirical
evidence that the systems are, for very good reasons, operating under a
regime substantially different from design intentions; many interesting
possibilities present chemselves. The most obvious thing to do is to
examine how the existing systems actually operate and how the farmers
interact with the system and its operators. In a country as large and
varied as Thailand with a strong commercial ethic there are bound to be
numerous "successes" in which public systems have been modified by the
farmers to actually produce the services some farmers want and need. The
pilot sugar technology mentioned above in the Mae Klong is only one
example. A careful study of the wide-spread on-demand pumping from canals,
its extent, and the means of distributing the water once it is removed
would be another obvious area to investigate. It serves no purpose to
ignore this reality and it may be something that should be encouraged. A
studv of farmer damage to control structures is also an obvious need.
Berkhoff has shown that such damage in a wet season drought is entirely
rational.  D/  It serves no useful purpose to ignore this rent-seeking
reality since it creates much of the maintenance problem in the country.
68.       The problem with pursuing such questions and documenting how
things really work and why is that it raises the question of "what is to be
done". The answer to this question is by no means cbvious.
69.       One engineering approach is to recognize the hydraulic
instability of upstream controlled systems with up to a thousand manually
operated, frequently undershot, gates and admit that such a system cannot
be made to deliver the services required. Modern automatic down stream
control structures and other real time feedback and control mechanisms
together with the judicious use of buffer storage and overshot and
undershot control structures can remove this essentially technical
objection, certainly in the arid areas of the world where wet season
rainfall is too little to support crop growth i4i/  This is the group that
calls for "modernization". In Thailand, and other tropical rice-growing
countries with a substantial wet season, we do not yet know if such modern
53,  See:  India Irrigation Sector Review:  Irrigation Management on the
Indo-Canzetic Plain, by D. J. W. Berkhoff, Asia Technical Department,
World Bank, January 2, 1990.
54/  See:  Improving the Operations of Canal Irrigation Systems, by Herve
Plusquellec, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., March 1988.



30
systems can be made to work in public schemes with tens of thousands of
small farmers all exhibiting rent-seeking behavior. Small farmer damage to
hydraulically stable, modern, fully-gated systems oper&ting in the tropics
during a wet season drought is just as imminent as it is with the, manually
operated, hydraulically unstable, fully-gated systems in use today.
70.       One recent proposal to deal with the problem of wet season
drought and resulting farmer damage in the tropics is the so called
"structured" approach to irrigation system design and operation. 551   The
idea here is to sacrifice theoretical water use efficiency by simplifying
and reducing drastically the number of gated outlets. Instead of trying to
control and operate a thousand gates in a 100,000 ha. scheme, this approach
would reduce the number to something like thirty key structures which are
few enough in number and located such that they can be protected from
farmer damage. With these key structures either on or off, a particular
canal would either be flowing full or empty. Ungated outlets would take
off from the full canals. Farmers would have no incentive to block canals
running full and there would be no gates to damage or manipulate. The
great virtue of this system is that it takes into account explicitly rent-
seeking behavior and the tremendous potential for farmer damage to canals
running only partially full, especially in a wet season drought. It
recognizes that in a normal wet season very little irrigation may be needed
at all while in a wet season drought all farmers will seek to protect their
standing crops by taking water from the system simultaneously. Rather
than destroy the infrastructure, better to sacrifice some standing crops in
an equitable and planned manner by closing off certain canals at the key
structure level. The evidence in Eastern India, where wet-season rainfall
is usually high, is that the "structured" Bhakra syst n is much more
manageable than the fully-gated Gandak system which has suffered severe
farmer damage. i6/  The question of whose crops are to be equitably
sacrificed in a wet season drought is the unresolved issue with this
proposal.
71.       Engineers with successful experience in the design and operation
of modern, fully-gated, hydraulically stable irrigation systems tend to see
the solution of the "Thai irrigation problem" as one of modernization and
increasing sophistication and complexity to make the systems deliver their
intended services. Engineers with experience with large public systems in
areas with high rainfall wet seasons, like much of monsoon Asia and Central
and Southern Thailand, tend to see the solution as one of decreasing
hydraulic sophistication and increasing concern for control and protection
._/  See:  Design and Operating Guidelines for Structured Irrigation
Networks, Irrigation II Division, South Asia Projects Department, The
World Bank, April 1986. especially pp. 55-62.
iJ/  India Irrigatior. Sector Review:  Irrigation Management on the Indo-
Gangetic Plain, by D. J. W. Berkhoff, Asia Technical Department,
World Bank, january 2. 1990.



31
of the infrastructure from farmer damage and intervention. The latter
group have clearly gone beyond the irrigation paradigm. D1/
72.       Economists point out that any system paid for by user charges
and under the control of the farmers tends to perform well. The economists
push thz notion of water user charges and financially self-sufficient
parastatal operators so that farmers get water by paying what it is worth
.ather than trying to control the bureaucracy that allocates water or
modifying the physical infrastructure. A pricing system harmonizes
interests and sets unambiguous rules. For economists part of the solution
to the "Thai irrigation problem" is to make the RID budget dependent on
water user charge revenues, just as the state power company and the state
railways are largely dependent on revenues from users. Experience in the
Philippines has shown the dramatic change in attitudes of the irrigation
bureaucracy when the incentives facing the management and farmers shift to
quasi commercial standards. 58/
73.       Still another group of professionals see a different route to
addressing the problem. These are the rural sociologists that approach the
operation of an irrigation scheme not as a complex problem of the
hydraulics of open channel flow. Rather they see it as an exercise in
cooperative group dynamics in which social engineering is at least as
important as hydraulics. Rent-seeking behavior can be controlled if the
ri :. social institutions can be brought to bear on the problem. They
point to the successful irrigation associations in Bali, Taiwan and Japan
as proof that rent-seeking behavior need not break out in public irrigation
schemes. They usually embrace the notion of the economists that the
financial participation of the farmcr in the construction and operation of
the scheme is an essential ingredient of success. Engineers have no
quarrel with the position of the sociologists concerning water user groups
and generally wish them well, occasionally citing the failure to form
effective groups as being the reason their infrastructure is not being used
as designed. The sociologists are the people most qualified to address the
effect of part-time farming on the use of public irrigation systems.
Neither the economists nor the engineers are equipped to address these
sorts of questions.
57/ The Region objects to the bifurcation of engineering approaches to
irrigation system design and operation into the "modern" and the
"structured" schools. They emphasize that there are more areas of
agreement between the two groups than disagreement. The principal
area of agreement is the desirability of a technology for effecting
hydraulic stability. The principal area of disagreement mrn be in
the level of "structuring" or the size of the area to be served by
the lowest gate in the control structure hierarchy.
L8/  See:  Transforming a Bureaucracy. The Experience of the Philippine
National Irrigation Administration, edited by F. Korten and R. Siy
Jr., Ateneo de Manila University Press. Manila, 1988.



32
Conclusions
74.       In retrospect, RID's and the Bank's early approach to irrigation
development could be characterized as an unconscious variant of the
"structured" approach to system design. First, spread the water with
diversion structures and a primary and secondary canal system. Gated
tertiaries and on-farm development would not be included. Then, provide
dry season storage to firm up wet season flows and provide for some dry-
season cropping. If this had been combined with an attractive farm-gate
price for rice in the mid 1960s by a sympathetic Ministry of Commerce, then
success could have been declared as the rice would certainly have been
forthcoming, given the reservoir storage, the low-lift pump technology and
the supply elasticities.
75.       The fact that twenty-five percent of the Mae Klong Left Bank
service area was already irrigating in the 1980 dry season with low lift
pumps before Irrigation XII is some indication that the early "water
spreading" approach was both effective and appropriate for Thai macro
economic objectives. The subsequent fact that paddy farmers owning 38
percent of the Mae Klong service area did not want the tertiary system
provided under Irrigation XI and XII is another indication that they had
worked out their own solution to final delivery of water since the cropping
intensity in the area is approaching 190 percent. The Bank's role as a
supporter of the irrigation subsector could have ended a good deal earlier
in an environment of conspicuous success.
76.       Instee   farm-gate prices were kept low until 1972 and farmers
were not responding well to the provision of free infrastructure and water.
The explanation for the lack of intensification during the pre 1972 period
revolved around engineering questions of water delivery. On-farm
development and land consolidation was what was needed to get the farmers
to use the water. There were no calls for the reduction of the effective
export tax to raise incentives to produce rice commercially and achieve the
benefits the earlier investments were designed to produce. The decision
was to give more and better gated infrastructure to irrigated rice farmers.
In the Chao Phya Basin this strategy finally encountered the overall water
constraint of the basin.
77.       In the Mae Klong the problem of too much investment for the
water available was avoided. However, the gated technology chosen in the
final projects was not, in retrospect, appropriate for the relatively high
wet season rainfall conditions nor for the rent-seeking environment created
by a free water policy. Going for high-command extensively-gated systems
was, in retrospect, a questionable decision since this form of
modernization and upgrading did not take account of what was actually
happening and what could work in the Thai context. A much less costly
extension of the "spreading" infrastructure without the gates and without
the high canals on fill would have extended irrigation potential (similar
to that already incorporated on twenty-five percent of the pre project
area) to the bulk of the farm population without the uneconomic capital
costs.    The reluctance of many farmers in the Mae Klong to "accept" the
on-farm development that would allow them to benefit from this command
should not be attributed to simple ignorance. The sugar farmer response in
the same area is proof that a price is paid for command technology. The



33
sugar growers preferred to allow the water to drop a meter or so from the
offtake into ditches for later low-lift pump delivery rather than exploit
the FSL elevation. For crops requiring different amounts and timing of
water this system makes a lot of sense. It is a major break with the
standard rice irrigation technology and fits much more the needs of a
diversified cropping picture.
78.       The major contribution of the Thai farmer to public tropical
irrigation systems is their demonstrated willingness to pump water the
final meter or so to their crops. A privately owned final delivery system
incorporated into a public, "structured", largely gateless canal system
with FSL at or below ground level is an intriguing concept.  9/  It fits
with the, by now, indisputable Thai policy of free canal water and a large
centralized canal bureaucracy. It fits the wet season rainfall conditions
of the south and the central plain and it squares with what the farmers are
actually doing. If concern with reality could ever overcome the powerful
attraction of the irrigation paradigm, it is quite likely that Thai
engineers could then encourage the development of an appropriately Thai
irrigation technology that would not have to be patterned after what worked
for special reasons in Japan, California, North Africa or colonial
Indonesia. The elements of such a technology are already emerging. It
takes official recognition of what already exists to make these initiatives
technically respectable. The rest of humid, rice-growing, tropical Asia
would then have a model to look towards that might help them with their own
divergences between design and reality. itQ/
59/  This is, in fact, being done in the Songklah Lake scheme in the
South. This Australian-designed system is to lead water from
Songklah Lake through low level canals to the farmers fields. The
final delivery of water to the crops will be by privately owned low
lift pumps. The major anxiety of the engineers is what will happen
if the farmers don't take the water. To the economist it would mean
that the provision of the water is not worth much and that the
economics of the scheme is suspect. Such market tests are useful for
public schemes and serve to focus the engineer's attention on the
primary purpose for which the scheme is designed.
.Q/ The Region shares the Audit's view that the low-lift pump delivery
system is likely to be appropriate in delta areas such as the Lower
Chao Phya. The Region takes exception with the Audit concerning the
potential for low-lift pump technology beyond the delta areas. They
feel that any place where water can be delivered to command the
surrounding terrain should not have a system requiring external
energy at the farm level for final delivery of water. If pumping is
to be promoted It should be a more efficient central pumping station
technology delivering water into a communal gravity canal such as
those used successfully in Japan, Korea, China and the northern parts
of Vietnam. If the Audit is to promote such an unorthodox technology
there is a burden of economic proof that remains to be made for it.



34
Caveats
79.       There are two major concerns the Audit has with the line of
reasoning set forth above. The first is the danger of simplification and
overstatement in order to make a point. The fact that there are probably
over a million low-lift pumps operating in the country today and that Thai
farmers are willing to use this technology in conjunction with public
irrigation schemes to give them the flexibility they need to produce a
range of crops is an attractive development for those interested in
agricultural production and crop diversification. Seizing on this
possibility as a panacea is the danger. There is no magic in this
development. It already exists where it makes sense and it only needs to
be officially recognized by the engineering profession and documented.
Most public irrigation schemes in Thailand have already been modified by
influential and well-located farmers to give them what they need. Some of
these modifications, principally the permanent pipe installations in the
canal banks, clearly require the active or passive cooperation of the canal
bureaucracy.
80.       The second concern is the equity issue.  One of the most
attractive features of the official engineering designs is that every
farmer in the command area, in theory, gets his fair share of the available
water. 61i The fact that, in reality, upstream users and those close to
the primary and secondary canals get much more than their fair share at the
right time is indisputable. The Golongan system of rotation has not worked
in Thailand any better than it has in Indonesia. fi2/ If one accepts the
inherent and inescapable inequity of the present system of populist
anarchy, then the jump to a demand-oriented first-pump-first-served system
that is, even in theory, inequitable is less difficult to contemplate. It
is, in the Audit's opinion, likely that accepting this inequity will allow
the designers to produce a system that is both more efficient and less
1./ The line of argument ignores the larger equity issue of rain-fed rice
farmers who receive no water control versus the fortunate ones who
receive free canal water.
6i2   For the Indonesian case of reality versus theory for irrigation see:
PPAR Irrigation Projects X. XIV. and XV, OED Report No. 7956, June
30, 1989, paras. 36-42, pp. 14-17. Most of the PPAR position is
based on: Study of Irrigation System Management - Indonesia,
International Irrigation Management Institute, Sri Lanka, October
1987.



35
inequitable than that which exists at present. fi / This is something that
would have to be studied carefully. For those who insist that the existing
systems can be made to work according to the original equitable designs,
the contemplation of something that is admittedly inequitable at the outset
is a step backward. The problem with the theoretical position is that all
the empirical evidence is against it. It then becomes a hopeful assertion
rather than a realistic assessment of what is possible.
81.       In most countries the pressure of events in the form of food
shortages or public sector budget constraints eventually forces irrigation
system designers to contemplate reality. This has already happened in
Bangladesh where the imperative of foodgrain production has forced the
planners to accept an indisputably effective low-lift pump and shallow tube
well technology despite the opposition of strong centralized bureaucracies
in charge of competing technologies. L4J In Indonesia, a public sector
resource constraint has put pressure on the irrigation subsidy to the point
where the public provision of tertiary infrastructure has been abandoned
and the smaller public schemes are to be turned over to the farmers for
both operation and maintenance. ik/ In Japan the major force for change in
the present system is the aging farm population and the unwillingness of
young people to grow irrigated rice at any price. LJ/
82.       In Thailand none of these forces is operating and the only
signal that something may be wrong is the low economic returns to large
scale irrigation investments including the two under audit. This by itself
is unlikely to effect any changes. The only near-term inescapable physical
reality in Thailand that cannot be ignored is the increasing scarcity of
surface water resources for agriculture and urban industrial and domestic
consumers. Even this pressure will not necessarily generate a real need to
incorporate reality into the design of future irrigation system investments
as long as inter-basin transfers are a technical possibility. Those who
subscribe to and benefit from the theoretical irrigation paradigm can then
63   Paradoxically, very little water in Thailand is wasted in a basin
sense even though the individual irrigation schemes have very poor
efficiency ratings, usually in the order of thirty percent. Should
upstream systems become efficient it could be to the detriment of
down-stream users who have come to depend on upstream inefficiencies
for their water. The rice farmers in the lower Chao Phya Basin, who
in the late 1960s began using dry season releases from the two
storage dams by pumping from drains, would be the first to be hurt by
efficient upstream use of the, now scarce, dry season flows in the
Chao Phya.
j/ The Bangladesh story may be studied in: PPAR Bangladesh Drainage and
Flood Control Project, OED, July 9, 1990. See also: Bangladesh
Minor Irrigation Sector: A Joint Review by the Government and the
World Bank, December 1982.
fi/ For the Indonesia story see: PPAR Irrigation Proiects X. XIV. and
XV, OED Report No. 7956, June 30, 1989.
/  The Economist, May 1990, p.



36
continue to overlook what is actually happening and exclude it from their
calculations. The farmers can then go ahead and modify these systems to
suit their purposes. It is a costly way to do business but it may, as in
the Japanese case with rice subsidies, be a price the country is willing to
pay.



37
Annex 1: An Alternative View of Historical Development 1/
1.        There was a surge in construction in the late 1960s and the
works built by the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) had many shortcomings.
The Survey Division was very weak in those days (it was greatly improved in
the 1970s under an IDA credit) and the maps it produced often contained
gross errors. As a result, some main canals and laterals were too low to
command the lands they had been built to irrigate. Mains and laterals were
routinely lined with concrete, even though many of them passed through
heavy impermeable soils where an unlined canal would have been much cheaper
and easier to modify in the future. There were also not enough laterals
and this created problems for the planning and design of tertiaries. In
many projects, the main systems were built years ahead of any attempt to
build tertiaries, and it was not uncommon for sections of a main canal to
be left unfinished because of construction problems or difficulties in land
acquisition.  Finally, there were often too few control structures and
outlets in the mains and laterals. The position of RID was th;.t the
farmers would complete the systems needed to bring water to their fields.
In the Northern Chao Phya, the deficiencies in the main systems were not so
pronounced but, as in other RID projects, the density of laterals was too
low; fortunately the mains and laterals were generally high enough to
command the land and there was no unnecessary concrete lining.
2.        The Mae Klong Project had all of the problems cited above, and
this situation was to some extent of the Bank's own making. The 1965 loan
was only for construction equipment. At appraisal and during supervision
there was no quality control of mapping, planning, design or construction.
While the project was being built there was a boom in sugar and most of the
higher flood-free land was turned over to sugar cane. Unfortunately most
of this higher land was out of command because of errors in mapping. Most
of the sugar is rainfed but sugar farmers pump from the canals to irrigate
their crop. Irrigation XI and XII, except for a small component for
Pattani, aimed at correcting deficiencies in the mains and laterals at Mae
Klong and to provide the works needed to get water to the farmers' fields,
generally referred to as on-farm development (OFD). The sugar areas were
excluded from the lands to be served by OFD since there was no way to bring
them into command. Also, the low-lying flooded areas remote from the main
system were excluded because of the risk of flood damage and because there
were already served by low-lift pumps from the long-established drainage
canals.
3.        The most difficult and controversial problem faced in Thailand's
irrigation sector since the late 1960s has been how to get water from the
main and laterals to the farmers' fields. The first Bank initiative was a
Bank loan in 1965 for what came to be known as the "Ditches and Dikes"
Project in the Northern Chao Phya. This is the simplest form of OFD and
consists of tertiary canals at about 400 m spacing radiating out from the
mains and laterals. No tertiary drains are provided and usually there are
1/   This Annex is based on the written comments by a staff member
engineer who worked for many years on the Thai irrigation lending
program. Its inclusion without comment by the Audit does not imply
acceptance or endorsement of the views expressed.



38
no roads along the tertiaries. They are also sized for continuous
irrigation and hence are smaller than if designed for rotational
irrigation. The main shortcoming is that the tail of the ditch gets less
water than the head; the result is that the irrigation tends to be limited
to a strip several kilometers wide on each side of a main or lateral canal.
This would not be too much of a problem if there were enough laterals.
4.        Surprisingly, the "Ditches and Dikes" worked quite well and by
1975 some of the project areas in the Northern Chao Phya had quite high
cropping intensities. There was, however, some reluctance to accept this
in the Bank because strong support developed for the higher standards of
OFD pioneered by the Netherlands in the Northern Chao Phya. This type of
OFD provides a more or less rectangular grid of ditches and drains through
land levelling and rearrangement of farm boundaries (often referred to as
land consolidation). This approach was, in fact, quite successful and the
survey, design and construction techniques developed in Thailand were far
in advance of many other countries. Unfortunately, it never had the full
backing of RID's management. Furthermore, it placed heavy demands on a
scarce resource - RID staff with the skills and dedication needed to
negotiate with farmers and gain their confidence. This mode of development
reached its peak at a time when it was finally acknowledged in Thailand and
the Bank that all the dry season water in the Chao Phya Basin was being
used. Thus, the extra water needed to reach high second-crop intensities
and justify the investments in land consolidation had a high opportunity
cost.
5.        Another form of OFD in the Chao Phya made its appearance on a
large scale beginning in 1972. This consists of low-lift pumping from the
long-established navigation/drainage canals of the Southern Chao Phya.
Typically, each farmer digs a ditch to his land and operates his own pump.
Several factors spurred this type of irrigation. The Sirikit and Bhumiphol
reservoirs on the tributaries of the Chao Phya had changed the flood regime
in the lower delta and large areas were deprived of the flood-dependent
crop. Fortunately, the same reservoirs created a supply of dry-season
water. These hydrologic changes also coincided with the availability of
proven dry-season rice varieties.
6.        For Mae Klong, the targets for OFD were 66,000 ha on the Right
Bank for Irrigation XI and 27,000 ha on the Left Bank for Irrigation XII.
By the time the loans were closed, the areas provided with OFD were 38,000
ha on the Right Bank and 22,000 ha on the Left Bank. Despite the shortfall
on the Right Bank, this was still a considerable accomplishment. Prior to
the project the areas provided with OFD grew a single crop of rainfed rice.
Within three years following OFD completion, virtually all of the area
served was double cropped with irrigated rice. The project pioneered a new
type of OFD - a simplified version of the intensive form adopted in parts
of the Northern Chao Phya. It does not include land consolidation or land
levelling and, as far as possible, the ditches and drains follow the farm
boundaries to reduce infringement on the farmers' land. Unfortunately,
this requires more negotiation than the intensive but more costly approach.



39
THAILAND
ELEVENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT (LOAN 1781-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Overview
General
1.    The  Eleventh  Irrigation  Project  comprised  two  completely  separate
subprojects:   the Mae Klong Right Bank (MKRB) subproject in Central Thailand
and the Pattani subptoject in Southern Thailand.  This Overview is therefore
based on two Project Completion Reports (PCRs)--the PCR for the MKRB subproject,
prepared by International Land Development Zonsultants (ILACO) in association
with Empire M&T Co. Ltd., and the PCR for the Pattani subproject, prepared by
the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MOAC) of Thailand. The Overview also draws on the Loan Agreement,
the Bank's Appraisal Report, supervision mission reports, correspondence with
the Borrower, and internal memoranda in Bank files.
Background
2.    Through the 1960s, Bank support for irrigation development in Thailand had
centered on the Chao Phya Basin because of its economic potential. Subsequently,
the Bank extended its support to other areas, in an effort to promote rural
development and poverty alleviation. The development of the Mae Klong Basin was
given high priority. Under a 1963 comprehensive plan, RID had decided to develop
the region in two main stages: the Mae Klong left bank area (eventually financed
by the Bank under Ln. 2022 in 1980) and the Mae Klong right bank area.
Development of the overall MKRB was initiated by RID in 1970 through a number
of small development schemes.  At the same time, RID was involved in a two-
stage development of the Pattani River Basin in the south.   Because the
preparat4.on period of the two coincided, at the Government's urging the Bank
agreed to include both developments into a single project focussed on rural
poverty alleviation.
3.    The Bank's prior experience with RID had been positive.  Since 1950, the
Bank had financed four multipurpose dams and nine irrigation projects, totalling
US$446 million. Six of the projects were in the Chao Phya Basin, one in the Mae
Klong Basin, two in the Northeast, and one in Petchaburi close to the Mae Klong
Basin.   The five projects undertaken by RID since 1973 incorporated higher
standards of water control to fully exploit the Basin's irrigation potential.



40
The PPAR No. 2850 of February, 1980 for the Sirikit Dam (Loan 514-TH) indicates
that the project was highly successful.
4.    During identification, preparation and appraisal of the Eleventh Irrigation
Project, many issues arose: the appropriateness of the inclusion of the Pattani
component, RID's design capacity, institutional arrangements within RID for
implementing the project, monitoring and evaluation, procurement procedures for
civil works contracts, the adequacy of agricultural support services, and cost
recovery. As it turns out, these issues have not been completely resolved during
the implementation of the project.
Project Objectives
5.    The Eleventh  Irrigation Project was  designed  to  improve  and expand
Thailand's irrigated paddy area by 66,000 ha along the right bank of the Mae
Klong River in Central Thailand, and by 15,000 ha along the right main canal of
the Pattani subproject in southern Thailand.   About 30,400 farm families, or
200,000 people, were expected to benefit from increased agricultural production
and incomes generated by:   improvement,  enlargement and completion of main
canals, laterals and service roads; completion of main and secondary drains; on
farm development (OFD); and improvements in system operations and maintenance
(O&M). The project was also expected to generate demand for an additional 5.2
million man-days of labor per year.  Finally, the project would provide technical
assistance and training for the development of monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
procedures, and would finance preparation of detailed designs for irrigation
development of an additional 30,000 ha at Pattani.
Project Content
6.    Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  This component included the following
main features:
(a) Mae Klong Right Bank
(i) improvement and enlargement of 157 km of existing main canals and
completion of 33 km of new main canal;
(ii) improvement and enlargement of 206 km of existing lateral canals
and construction of 103 km of new lateral canals and service roads;
(iii) completion of about 336 km of main and secondary drains; and
(iv) on-farm development, including tertiary canals, drains and farm
roads, for a total area of 66,000 ha;



41
(b) Pattani
(i) improvement of 23 km of the existing right main canal and
construction of the remaining 25 km of that canal;
(ii) construction of about 134 km of laterals and service roads;
(iii) construction of about 165 km of main and secondary drains; and
(iv) on-farm development, including tertiary canals, drains and farm
roads, for a total area of 15,000 ha.
7.    Technical Assistance and Training.  This component included:
(i)  Monitoring and Evaluation:   consultant services to assist RID in
strengthening its M&E capability, including establishment of an in-
house monitoring unit; strengthening of RID's Irrigated Agronomy
Branch of the O&M Division (engaged in the routine collection of crop
statistics for all irrigation projects) and the Economics Branch of
the Planning Division (responsible for agroeconomic baseline surveys),
and development of efficient M&E procedures to track irrigation
projects benefits;
(ii)  Water Management:   technical assistance and training to establish
efficient procedures for water management, so as to ensure timely and
adequate deliveries of irrigation water; and
(iii)   Detailed Designs:   technical assistance for detailed design of a
further 30,000 ha of irrigated area from the Pattani River.
Implementation
8.    Organization and Management. Project implementation was the responsibility
of the RID of MOAC.   In order to overcome coordination problems which had
occurred in the past caused by fragmentation of project activities among various
divisions and offices, RID assigned a Project Manager for MKRB and one for
Pattani with overall responsibility for all implementation aspects.   The two
managers reported to a Project Director who was one of RID's Deputy Director
Generals.
9.    Each Project Manager was responsible for coordination of all subproject
activities performed by consultants, by other functional divisions within RID,
and by other government agencies. Additionally, a Project Engineer was assigned
to each subproject, coordinate field operations. Consultants (ILACO/EMPIRE M&T
for the MKRB subproject and SVERDRUP & PARCEL/RESOURCES ENGINEERING for the
Pattani subproject) assisted project management in design and construction
supervision. At the Central level, many of RID's functional divisions (e.g. O&M
Division, Project Planning Division, etc.), as well as several of MOAC's
departments/offices were also involved in project implementation. The Department
of Agricultural Extension (DAE) was responsible for providing agricultural advice



42
to farmers in both subprojects, and the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC) was responsible for collecting water charges.
10.   Construction of Irrigation and Drainage Systems.   The quality of civil
works by contract at MKRB was generally acceptable. The quality and progress
of OFD construction, mostly done by force account, was at first disappointing,
but improved in later years. However, OFD never caught up with initial delays
and at loan closing had reached only 56Z of the appraisal target. At the Pattani
subproject, neither quality nor the progress of construction was satisfactory.
Most canal systems were left unfinished. For those parts designated 'completed'
in the project report only the earthwork was done. Furthermore, as a result of
t4rmers' opposition to OFD works, only 29Z of the target area had been developed
at loan closing. Farmers' opposition to OFD was due to (i) lack of compensation
for rights-of-way for OFD; (ii) lack of access to water by some farmers; and
(iii) failure by RID to demonstrate irrigation benefits and to generate broad
community support.
11.   The physical achievements vs.  appraisal targets  for the project are
summarized in Table 1 on the next page. It was anticipated at appraisal that
the project would be completed in five years (i.e. by December 31, 1985) and that
the loan would be closed on June 30, 1986. During the course of implementation,
the Loan Closing Date was extended twice, the last time - to June 30, 1988, and
neither subproject was fully completed. Disbursements continued until March 31,
1989 (on special permission from the Bank's Regional Vice President, because of
exceptional flooding in November 1988 in the Pattani area).  The longer than
expected implementation period for the two subprojects was due mainly to the
following factors.
(a) At Mae Klong Right Bank: (i) Initial delays in engaging consultants;
(ii) time required for redesign of OFD in view of RID's disagreements with
consultants on initial design criteria; (iii) cumbersome and lengthy procurement
procedures; (iv) inadequate condition of force account plant and equipment; (v)
insufficient and untimely funding; (vi) inability to work during most of the 1986
wet season; and (vii) repeated and protracted negotiations with farmers on
rights-of-way acquisition for on farm ditches and drains;
(b) At Pattani: (i) Initial delay in engaging consultants; (ii) time
required for additional topagraphic surveys because of noted inaccuracies in
original plans; (iii) time required for redesign of OFD in view of disagreements
wit;. consultants on initial designs; (iv) delays caused by additional work of
lining the head-reach of the main canal; (v) time lost in dis-utes with the main
civil works contractor concerning pay items (overhaul) and quantities; (vi)
farmers initial opposition to OFD; (vii) longer than normal rainy periods (1986,
1987) which reduced construction time; and (viii) damage from major floods in
early December of 1987 and November of 1988. The detailed design for a further
30,000 ha in the Pattani River area was not carried out under this project.



43
Table 1: PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS VS. APPRAISAL TARGETS
Actual as
Appraised    Actual           Percentage of
Project Features                 Target        Achievements  Appraised
Mae Klong Right Bank (as of 1987)
(a)  Improvement and Enlargement       157 km         157 km            1002
of the existing main canal
(b)  Completion of new main canal       33 km          33 km            1001
(c)  Improvement and Enlargement       206 km         282 km            1372
of existing lateral canals
(d)  Construction of new lateial       103 km          78 km             762
canals and service roads
(e)  Completion of main and            336 km         582 km            1732
secondary drains
(f)  Irrigable Area with OFD        66,000 ha      37,700 ha             57Z
works (tertiary canals,
drains and farm roads)
construction
Pattani (as of 1988)
(a)  Improvement of the existing        23 km        15.3 kml            672
right main canal
New Construction of the right    25 km          10.6 kml            42Z
main canal
(b)  Construction of laterals and    134 km         125.7 km1            94Z
service roads
(c)  Construction of main and          165 km        61.3 km             37%
secondary drains
(d)  Area with OFD construction   15,000 ha         4,288 ha             292
including tertiary canals,
drain and farm roads
1/ Structures were not completed.



44
12.   Monitoring  and  Evaluation.    After  RID  accepted  and  approved  the
consultants' proposal, a special Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (KEU)
was set up within the Economics Branch of RID's Planning Division. MEU, with
assistance from consultants, was responsible for all monitoring activities--
concentrating primarily on agricultural progress and project benefits,
particularly of OFD activities. Impact or ex-post evaluation of the project was
the responsibility of the Office of Agricultural Economics of the MOAC.  RID
was responsible for ongoing monitoring of the project during implementation.
For  these  purposes,    RID  carried  out  an  intensive  baseline  survey  in
January/February 1982 to generate reference data.
13.   The regular collection of data for project monitoring was particularly
useful.   Regular surveys of agricultural developments and benefits of this
subproject started in 1987 in areas where OFD works had been completed, and
agricultural production data were collected and used in deriving estimates of
project benefits.
14.   Water Management.   RID improved its operational capability through the
introduction of computerized water scheduling and monitoring at MKRB.   By
developing appropriate software, the Consultant prepared daily/weekly delivery
schedules (WASAM) for mains and laterals of the irrigation system, based on
projected climatic conditions,consumptive use requirements, and computerized
monitoring of programmed schedules was introduced and results discussed by the
O&M staff of each Zone. This represented a breakthrough in RID's attempts to
match water supplies with demands.
15.   The Consultant also helped RID to introduce a computerized, automated
maintenance planning process (AMPP) for MKRB. This program enabled RID's O&M
staff first to review critically all various maintenance activities, classify
them in accordance with the frequencies required to sustain system performance,
and finally plan activities in proper sequence and frequency.
Project Costs and Disbursements
16.   The appraised cost of the project was US$186.0 million (MKRB US$137.0
million, Pattani US$49.0 million) and the loan was US$80.0 million (MKRB US$61.0
million, Pattani US$19.0 million). By loan closing (June ?0, 1988) the actual
total project cost was US$171.0 million, with total disbursements of US$54.4
million. Loan disbursements had commenced during the second project year (IBRD
FY81), but continuously lagged behind the appraised disbursement schedule by 30-
602. The Bank cancelled parts of the loan on three occasions (US$.a8.0 million
on June 17, 1987; US$6.5 million on July ,', 1988; US$1.1 million on January 10,
1989).
17.   Mae Klong Right Bank.  The total appraised cost for the MKRB subproject
was US$137.0 million, with US$61.0 million of the loan allocated to this
subproject.   By loan closing the actual cost of work completed was US$137.1



45
million 1, with total disbursements of US$41.6 million. However, it is important
to remember that the subproject was not completed at the appraised scope.
18.   The cost of OFD work increased from US$550/ha at appraisal to US$750/ha
at project completion because of the inclusion of feeder ditches across some
service units; the lining of a number of on-farm ditches: and the unanticipated
cost of overhead.   Construction costs also rose because of increases in the
Jength of canals and drains.   Nonetheless, final total costs were lower than
appraisal estimates because of the reduction in area from 66,000 ha at appraisal
to 44,500 ha and the fact that considerably less OFT) work was implemented. Bank
disbursements were also lower than appraisal estimates because a larger portion
of civil works were carried out by force account under RTG's budget than by
contracts under the Loan.
19.   Pattani.  The total cost of the Pattani subproject was estimated at US$49.0
million at appraisal, with US$19.0 million of the loan allocated to this
subproject. Because of lack of progress in the construction of the irrigation
system, RID repeatedly reduced the scope of work at Pattani. Consequently, parts
of the loan were cancelled on two occasions (US$3.0 million on June 17, 1987;
US$3.2 million on July 7, 1988).   By loan closing the actual cost of the
subproject was Baht 821.6 million or US$33.9 million, with total loan
disbursements of US$12.8 million.
Agricultural Production
20.   Mae Klong Right Bank.   The main crop in the MKRB subproject was rice.
The second crop was sugarcane, which covered 9Z of the cropped area at the start
of the project in 1979 and has retained about the same share until 1987. As
indicated in Table 2 below, in 1987, of the 37,700 ha on which OFD facilities
had been provided, 28,700 were irrigated.   The irrigated area is expected to
increase at full development in 1994 to 44,500 ha (PCR Table 2.2).  With an
abundant water supply, dry-season cropping kept pace with OFD, and the cropping
intensity for the paddy area increased dramatically from 105X at appraisal to
195% in 1987. It is expected to remain equally high at full development (cf.
appraisal target 190%).   Yields are also expected to approximate appraisal
astimates. 2  Local irrigated wet season rice, 2.5 ton/ha at appraisal, was 3.0
ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to reach 3.2 ton/ha at ful:. development (cf.
appraisal target 3.5 ton/ha).   The yield of HYV wet season rice, which was
introduced %2th the project, was 3.6 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to reach 4.1
ton/ha at full development (cf. appraisal target 4.0 ton/ha). The yield of HYV
dry season irrigated rice increased from 3.0 ton/ha at appraisal to 3.7 ton/ha
in 1987 and is expected to increase to 4.4 ton/ha at full development (cf.
appraisal target 4.2 ton/ha). The yield of sugar, recorded at appraisal as 55.0
ton/ha, had increased to 80.0 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to reached the 90.0
ton/ha at full development.
1 MKRB's PCR caiculated this figure to be US$125.0 million using a 1988
conversion rate (Teble 2.6, p. 27).  In this Overview the prevailing exchange
rates were used (US$1 = B20 from 1980-1983 and US$1 = B25 from 1984-1989).
2 Yield figures for 1987 are based on averages of actual data-obtained from
a Baseline survey and project benefit monitoring surveys; yield figures for 1988
and beyond are projections.



46
Table 2: KEY PRODUCTION DATA FOR THE MKRB SUBPROJECT
1979        1987       Anticipated    Appraisal
at Full Dev.   Estimated
Area with OFD (ha)             -         37,700      44,500          66,000
Irrigable Area from OFD (ha)
Wet Season Rice             -          31,700      44,500          66,000
Dry Season Rice             -         28,700      44,500          66,000
Yields (ton/ha)
Local irrigated          2.5           3.0         3.2             3.5
wet season rice
HYV wet season rice       -            3.6         4.1             4.0
HYV dry season rice      3.0           3.7         4.4             4.2
Sugar, irrigated        55.0          80.0        90.0            90.0
Paddy Cropping
Intensity  (Z)         105.0         195.0       195.0           190.0
21.   Pattani.  As summarized in Table 3 below, in 1988 the irrigated area at
Pattani included 4,288 ha with,  and 3,184 ha without,  OFD facilities.  1
Cropping intensity had increased from 1002 at appraisal to 107Z, and is expected
ultimately to reach 150% at full development, somewhat less than the appraisal
target of 1702 (PCR Table 5.1, p. 29). The yield of local irrigated wet season
rice was about 2.0 ton/ha in 1988 2 and is expected to increase at full
development to 2.7 ton/ha (cf. appraisal target 2.5 ton/ha). The yield of HYV
wet season rice, introduced under the project, was 2.3 ton/ha in 1988 and is
expected to increase at full development to 3.3 ton/ha (cf. appraisal target 3.0
ton/ha). The yield of HYV dry season rice, also introduced under the project,
was 3.3 ton/ha in 1988 and is expected to increase to 3.5 ton/ha at full
development (cf. appraisal target 3.5 ton/ha).
1 By 1988 OFD covered only 4,288 ha of a total area of 6,160 ha of the
developed part of Zone Al by main and secondary systems. During the 1988 wet
season the total irrigated area was reported as 7,472 ha, which included 1,312
ha in Zone A2 (without OFD).
2 Yield figures for wet (1987) and dry (1988) season are based on RID Agro-
economic Survey (1988); yield figures for 1989 and beyond are recent projections
by RID.



47
Table 3: KEY PRODUCTION DATA FOR THE PATTANI (RMC) SUBPROJECT
1979        1988       Anticipated    Appraisal
at Full Dev.   Estimated
Area with OFD (ha)            -           {4,288      4,928             15,000
Area w/o OFD (ha)                         {3,184      8,636
Subtotal                         7,472      13,564
Irrigable Area (ha)
(with and w/o (ha) OFD
Wet Season Rice             -           7,472      13,564            15,000
Dry Season Rice            -             491       6,800            10,000
Yields (ton/ha)
Local irrigated           -              2.0         2.7             2.5
wet season rice
HYV wet season rice       -              2.3         3.3             3.0
HYV dry season rice       -              3.3         3.5             3.5
Sugar, irrigated        55.0            80.0        90.0            90.0
Paddy Cropping
Intensity  (Z)                          106          150             170
Project Impact
22.   Mae Klong Right Bank.  The major impact of the project was an increase in
the production of rice (wet and dry season) and sugar (Table 4.13, PCR), and
consequently also of farm incomes. This was achieved primarily by an increase
in the dry season cropped area and  secondly by higher yields.   At  full
development, the difference between the pre-project and post-project annual farm
income is expected to be approximately US$164/ha at the current exchange rate
(Table 5.1, PCR). The demand for labor also increased between 1984 and 1987 by
12.5 workdays/ha. Wages increased from $25/day at appraisal to an average of
$38/day in 1987, in normal terms, but did not increase in real terms.
23.   The ERR for the MKRB subproject was appraised as 35Z based on the 1979
commodity price forecasts and appraisal data.   In 1987, the Consultant re-
assessed the ERR for RID at 15.4?, based on actual project implementation data
and the Bank's  Fall 1987 commodity price  forecasts.   Subproject economic
viability appeared fairly robust and was expected to remain so despite the delays
in start-up and in benefit generation. Although this analysis was correct, using
the Bank's more recent September 1988 commodity price forecasts, the re-
estimated ERR would be only 8.2Z.



48
24.   The ERR for the Pattani subproject was appraised as 23Z.   In 1988 the
Borrower reassessed the ERR as 4.9Z, based on 1987 prices and 7.2Z based on 1989
prices and a 30-year project life. It should be noted that these figures assume
that peak output will be attained in 1993 (in Zone Al) and in 1996 (in Zone A2),
which is probably optimistic.
Bank and Borrower Performance
25.   The performance of the Bank concerning MKRB was satisfactory in appraisal
and supervision of the physical features of the subproject, but insufficient
attention was given to potential beneficiaries who were reluctant to cooperate
with project authorities to one degree or another. The implementation schedule
was also overly optimistic; given its prior involvement with RID, the Bank should
have appreciated the fact that the agency's rather cumbersome and lengthy
procurement procedures would require significantly more time at each stage of
implementation. In the case of Pattani, the Bank di(' not sufficiently recognize
at appraisal the local political and ethnic environment which made it especially
difficult for RID to obtain farmer cooperation, at least during initial years.
26.   The agreement with RTG on the recovery of O&M costs from beneficiaries
(Loan Agreement Section 4.04) called for (i) submission to the Bank by June 30,
1981 of a proposal for the establishment of appropriate O&M cost recovery levels
and collection procedures; (ii) collection of agreed upon rates from users within
one year of the completion of tertiary works in blocks of (about) 1,000 ha; (iii)
a study by June 30, 1984 of capital cost recovery; (iv) proposals by December
31, 1984 for recovering capital costs through appropriate fees; and (v) after
completing tertiary works in bocks of (about) 3,000 ha recovery of a reasonable
portion of capital costs on terms and procedures acceptable to the Bank. This
agreement has not been complied with and although it should have been addressed
by supervision mission, probably because O&M costs were not recovered in other
Bank-funded agricultural operations in Thailand as well, it was not addressed
here.
Lessons Learned
27.   Potential beneficiaries of irrigation projects should be actively involved
in decision-making during all phases of the project. Ideally, such involvement
should start at least one year before plans of new (or rehabilitated) systems
are finalized, or at least during the planning stage. Water user associations
(based on hydrologic or tertiary borders) should be established early on, and
their  training  provided.    Experience  elsewhere  in  Southeast  Asia  (e.g.
Philippines and Indonesia) suggests that this activity is best entrusted to
properly trained rural workers, living in concerned communities, rather than to
non-local irrigation department staff.
28.   Project  implementation  schedules  -hould  be  critically  reviewed  at
appraisal.   The entire procurement process should be detailed, including all
in-house and external approvals (Bank, the Budget Bureau, etc.) required prior
to contracts signing. Experience indicates that at present at least eight months
are required for major ICB procurement.



49
29.   Start-up delays caused by protracted rights-of-way acquisition procedures
could be minimized if the Bank required implementing agencies to secure rights-
of-way for at least those construction segments to be implemented during the
first project year by the time of loan negotiations, and to have at least
initiated rights-of-way acquisition for the second project year by appraisal.
Project schedules should allow for appropriate delays in start-up (a year or
more, depending on the nature of facilities to be built) in cases where, for
various reasons, such requirements could not be met.
30.   The systems for computerized water scheduling and monitoring (WASAM) and
automated maintenance planning process (AMPP) introduced at MKRB have had a very
large beneficial impact. The work done and experience gained in the economic
monitoring and evaluation of MKRB was also of great value, and RID should
consider extending these systems.



51
THAILAND
MAE KLONG IRRIGATION PROJECT-MALAIMAN PHASE I
(TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT)
(LOAN 2022-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Overview
General
1.    This Overview is based on the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Mae
Klong Irrigation Project-Malaiman Phase I (Irrigation Project XII) prepared by
International Land Development Consultants (ILACO) in association with Empire
M&T Co. Ltd., under a contract from the Government of Thailand. It also draws
on the Loan Agreement, the Bank's Appraisal Report, supervision mission
reports, correspondence with the Borrower, and internal memoranda in Bank
files.
Project Obiectives
2.    Irrigation Project XII was designed to assist the Royal Irrigation
Department (RID) in its continuing program to improve and expand Thailand's
irrigation facilities aiming to raise farm incomes through increased cropping
intensities and yields for about 27,000 ha of paddy land directly benefitting
about 44,000 people. This was to be achieved by construction of main canals,
lateral, sublateral canals and service roads. It also included construction,
improvement and enlargement of drains, construction of on-farm development
(OFD) in West Malaiman area, and improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M).
The project was expected to increase agricultural and agriculture-related
employment opportunities and income through generating demand for additional
labor which will benefit 13,000 landless agricultural people living in the
project area. The project was also expect to provide for the preparation of
future irrigation projects, and further improve RID's operational capability
through improvements in RID's operational complex. Finally the project was
expected to lead to an increase in foreign exchange earnings through an
increase in the production of exportable commodities (i.e. rice and sugar).
Appraised Components of the Project
3.    Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  The main features of this component
were:
3.1 construction of 19 km of main canals and service roads;
3.2 construction of 164 km of lateral and sublateral canals and
service roads;
3.3 improvement and enlargement of 70 km of main and secondary drains
and construction of 130 km of new secondary drains; and
3.4 on-farm development including tertiary systems (tertiary canals,



52
drains and farm roads) for a total area of 27,000 ha with
turnouts to areas of (about) 4 ha each.
4.    Institutional Improvement.  This component provides for strengthened
collaboration within RID mainly through staff training and some increases in
staff.
5.    PreRaration of New Project.  The main features of this component were:
5.1 selection of potential projects and preparatory studies;
5.2 preparation of updated feasibility studies of 2 earlier selected
projects in Northern Thailand (the Mae Yom and Mae Kok Projects)
covering 90,000 and 20,000 ha respectively;
5.3 preparation of detailed designs and contract documents for the
dams and for the initial stages of the irrigation system of the
Mae Yom and Mae Kok projects (subject to viable ERRs as
determined under paragraph 5.2). Activities might also include
detailed design of medium scale and small scale irrigation
schemes;
5.4 baseline surveys of selected potential projects.
Implementation
6.    Organization.  The implementation of the project was under the
responsibility of the RID of the MOAC while agricultural supporting services
were carried out by other departments and divisions of the MOAC (i.e. DAE,
rice division) and an institutional lender such as BAAC. Within RID's
Department, the Deputy Director General for construction and a senior RID
engineer from the Greater Mae Klong Irrigation Project acted respectively as
Project Director and Project Manager for this project. In addition, a Project
Engineer was appointed to coordinate field operations in the project area. An
association of consultants (paragraph 1) assisted the Project Management in
design and construction supervision of the different project components.
7.    Organizational arrangements were generally satisfactory.  The Project
Director, Project Manager and Project Engineer were all appointed as planned
at appraisal. All positions were incorporated into a proj;ct organization
structure with clear divisions of authority. The Project Manager was
responsible for all aspects of project implementation and the Project Director
coordinated activities of functional divisions within RID, other government
agencies and consultants. This system, in contrast to earlier versions,
contributed to a clearer definition of responsibilities for all parties
concerned and improved the quality and timing of project implementation. It
also strengthened both senior and mid-level management.
8.    Construction of Irrigation and Drainage Systems.  The following
components have been implemented at a, generally, satisfactory quality:
(the figures in between brackets indicate appraised quantities)
8.1 construction of 18.0 km (19 km) of main canals and service roads;
8.2 construction of 169.0 km (164 km) of lateral and sublateral
canals and service roads;



53
8.3 improvement and enlargement of 76.0 km (70 km) of main and
secondary drains and construction of 145 km (130 km) of new
secondary drains;
8.4 construction of OFW (tertiary canals, drains and roads) covering
an irrigable area of 22,000 ha (27,000 ha).
9.    It was anticipated at appraisal that the project would be completed in
five years, e.g. by June 30, 1986, and that the loan would be closed on June
30, 1987. Actually, the Loan Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1988 and
disbursements continued until December 31, 1988. The longer than expected
implementation period was due mainly to: (i) time required to survey part of
the area which was covered by inadequate aerial photography and missing
benchmarks (PCR Section 2.2.2); (ii) repeated modifications of designs of
drainage and on-farm works (PCR Section 2.2.4); (iii) protracted procurement
procedures (PCR Sections 2.4 and 2.6); (iv) poor organization of contractors
and inefficient construction procedures (PCR Sections 2.4 and 2.6); (v) poor
condition of equipment (PCR Section 2.4); (vi) cash flow problems (PCR Section
2.4); (vii) inclement weather during long stretches of the 1986 wet season
(PCR Section 2.4.2); and (viii) protracted negotiations with farmers on R-0-W
acquisition for 0/F ditches and drains (PCR Sections 2.2.4 and 2.9).
10.   Institutional ImDrovement.
(a)   An important improvement in RID's institutional capability was the
establishment of a feed-back mechanism from the field to the design office.
By institutionalizing regular contacts between construction supervisors and
designers and between O&M personnel and designers, field personnel were able
to articulate to designers Droblems they had encountered either during
construction or during operation. Designers, on their part, had an
opportunity to analyze encountered problems and ascertain implications upon
system design. For example, turnout gates, which presented operational
problems in many (if not most) RID's projects, were re-designed and improved
in response to O&M comments.
(b)   A second important improvement in RID's operational capability was
achieved through the introduction of computerized water scheduling and
monitoring. By adapting software to local needs, the Consultant developed
daily/weekly delivery schedules (WASAM) for mains and laterals of the
irrigation system, down to tertiary turnouts. These were based on gross
consumptive use requirements and present a breakthrough in RID's attempts to
match water supplies with demands. (The same system could be used to schedule
deliveries from tertiaries to individual and/or groups of farms).
Computerized monitoring of programmed schedules was introduced and results
(monthly monitoring graphs) were discussed by the O&M staff of each Zone.
(c)   A third improvement in RID's maintenance capability was achieved by thie
Consultant's introduction of a computerized, automated maintenance planning
process (AMPP). This program served as an incentive to RID's O&M staff to
first critically review all various maintenance activities, classify them in
accordance with required frequencies to sustain system performance and finally
plan activities in proper sequence and frequency. (It should be noted that RID
decided recently to adapt and employ programs developod for this project



54
nationwide.)
(d)   A fourth improvement in RID's capability concerned training of
irrigators. It was achieved by providing fully equipped mobile training units
(e.g. audio/visual aids, training booklets, irrigation calendars, and various
other training materials).
(e)   The project also improved RID's coordination capability with irrigators
by establishing Working Committees at Amphoe (District) level. These
committees helped coordinate activities of different agencies in forming and
training of Water User's Groups (WUG) in newly developed area. The Committees
also provided agricultural guides -- in addition to that provided by
Provincial Committees for Land Consolidation (POLC).
11.   Preparation of New Projects.   Crop Diversification Study on the West
Bank of the Chao Phya. Upon the request of MOAC, Loan 2022-TH financed a
major identification and prefeasibility study by the Project Consultant on
crop diversification on the West Bank of the Chao Phya. The study found
little potential for dry-footed field crops (such as soybean, cotton and
mungbean) or exportable fruits and vegetables due to limiting soil
capabilities, but some potential for fruits and vegetables for local
consumption, for combined aqua-rice culture (particularly fresh-water prawns)
and for growing of orchids. In view of rapid deterioration of water quality
selective, uncoordinated, flood control in parts of the basin (exacerbating
floods in other parts), and already experienced water shortages, the study
recommended a follow-up re-assessment of water management in the Mae Klong and
Chao Phya basins and the zoning of the area for various economic activities.
12.   However, neither these nor additional studies were carried out under
this project because of MOF's objection to use proceeds from this loan for
further project preparation or follow-up studies.
Proiect Costs and Disbursements
13.   The appraised cost of the project was US$115.0 million, with a foreign
currency component of US$57.0 million. By loan closure (June 1988) the actual
total project cost (TPC) was USS 79.7 million and total disbursements under
the loan aggregated US$34.4 million. Factors that contributed to the
reduction in TPC were: (a) service area reduction (O/F development covered
only 22,000 ha instead of an appraised area of 27,000 ha); and (b) a decline
in the value of the Thai currency which resulted in a 25% devaluation and
which reduced the TPC in US$ equivalent. Loan disbursements commenced during
the second project year (IBRD FY 1982), but lagged behind the appraised
disbursement schedule by 55-75%. Upon RID's and MOF's request the Bank
cancelled a total of US$22.6 million from proceeds under the loan ($19.0
million on June 17, 1987; $3.0 million on August 9, 1988; $0.6 million on
January 18, 1989).
Agricultural Production
14.   The reassessed agricultural potential of the project at loan closure was
as follows. Of the 22,000 ha where O/F facilities were provided, cropping



55
intensities are now expected to reach 172% at full development (178%)1;
however, yields are expected to exceed appraisal estimates2. Yield of local
transplant wet season rice recorded at appraisal as 1.7 ton/ha, was 2.5 ton/ha
in 1987 and is expected to further increase at full development3 by about 30%
to 3.3 ton/ha compared to an appraised target yield of 3.0 ton/ha. Yield of
HYVs wet season rice4 was 3.4 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to increase at
full development to 4.1 ton/ha compared to an appraised target yield of 3.5
ton/ha. Yield of HYVs dry season rice in flooded areas increased from 2.8
ton/ha at appraisal to 3.9 ton/ha in 19&7 and is expected to increase to 4.5
ton/ha at full development compared to an appraised target yield of 3.2
ton/ha. Yield of HYVs dry season rice5 in non-flooded areas was 3.8 ton/ha in
1987 and is expected to increase at full development to 4.2 ton/ha compared to
an appraised target yield of 4.0 ton/ha. Yield of sugar recorded at appraisal
as 35.0 ton/ha was 60 ton/ha in 1987 and is expected to increase to 80.0
ton/ha at full development. At appraisal, sugar was not expected to be
planted under the project.
Impact
15.   The major impact of the project was an increase in rice production (both
wet and dry season) and sugar production through increased yield, expanded
areas and increased intensities primarily by increasing cropped areas during
the dry season. (Table 1, page 7) This led to an increase in farm incomes.
At full development, the annual net incremental farm income is expected to be
approximately 4,400 Baht per hectare. As a consequence of these developments,
labor requirements and wages also increased. Labor and wages are expected to
increase at full development by 30 workdays/hectare and between 5 to 10
Baht/workday respectively. The project provided significant improvements in
water management and in improved inter-departmental cooperation within RID and
in improved contacts with irrigators. Mainly because of MOF's objectien to
use this loan for studies, no new projects were prepared under this loan.
Finally, the increase in the production of exportable commodities (i.e. rice
and sugar) also led to an increase in foreign exchange earnings. From 1982-
1986 Thailand's rice exports had increased about 14.2%.
16.   The appraisal report estimated the project ERR at 23% based on Fall 1981
Commodity Price Forecast data. The Borrower's PCR re-estimated the ERR at
11%, based on Fall 1987 Commodity Price Forecast data (in 1985 constant US
1 the figure indicates the amount expected at appraisal
2 Yield figures for 1987 are based on averages of actual data obtained from
field observations and various other sources (RID Mae Klong Project, Agricultural
Extension Service); Yield figures for 1988 and beyond are projections.
3 The appraised target yields were to be reached at full development - in
the sixth year after completion of project works or in 1994
4 introduced with the project
5 also introduced with the project



56
Dollars) and on adjusted costs to September 1987. Major factors contributing
to the reduction of ERR from the appraisal estimate are: (a) benefits started
accruing only in the sixth year of the project instead of the second year as
assumed at appraisal; (b) considerably lower economic prices of paddy; (c) an
overestimation of incremental production.(PCR Section 6)
17.   The Bank reassessed the ERR as 7.2% based on same production projections
as given in the PCR but substituting the latest (September 1988) Commodity
Price Forecasts for the earlier (1987) forecast used in the PCR.(table 2, page
8) This substitution, of a yet lower forecast, dropped the ERR from 11% to
7.2%.
Bank Performance
18.   The Bank dealt adequately with some issues at appraisal but not with
all. Thus: (i) the time estimated for implementation was too short; (ii) the
economic assumptions were overly optimistic and thus resulted in overstating
the project ERR; (iii) there was a lack of economists during supervision and
hence little attention was given during supervision to an actual reduction in
economic benefits; (iv) the Bank did not insist that RID obtain farmers'
cooperation before the actual construction of 0/F system, and as a result
delays occurred during implementation.
Lessons Learned
19.   R-O-W problem which stemmed from farmers' unwillingness to yield land
access for farm ditches and drains was primarily due to a lack of early,
effective contacts between RID and future irrigation users. This problem
resulted in a delay and a reduction of OFD and delayed derivation of benefits.
Attention should therefore be given to involving the benefitting farm
population in project preparation allowing them to articulate their legitimate
expectations from irrigation. Based on these discussions RID should be able
to appropriately plan the project and reach appraised project objectives.
20.   With hindsight, it is evident that the appraised implementation schedule
of 5 years was far too optimistic. The bank should have anticipated the
likelihood of shortcomings common to other projects implemented by RID at
appraisal (i.e. delays in awarding contracts, protracted negotiations for R-0-
W, etc.). Implementation of similar schemes should be planned for longer
periods of time (i.e. 7 to 8 years).
21.   Another important lesson learned concerns the water management system
and maintenance planning. RID should consider expanding the knowledge gained
from the improved water management system (WASAM) and from automated
maintenance planning (AMPP) by implementing these systems which already had a
positive impact on this project to other similar developments throughout
Thailand.



57
TABLE 1: KEY PRODUCTION ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT
Actual/Anti-
cipated at
1981        Appraisal    Full Agric.   Percent of
Situation   Estimates1   Development   Appraisal
Cropped Area (ha)
Paddy                       26,000.0    45,500.0         34,600.0         76.0
Sugar                          900.0          -           3,300.0           -
Cropping intensities (Z)          100.0        178.0           172.0         96.6
Yields (ton/ha)
Local transplant                  1.7          3.0             3.3       110.0
wet season rice
HYVs wet season rice2              -           3.5             4.1       117.1
HYVs dry season rice3             2.8          3.2             4.5       140.6
HYVs dry season rice               -           4.0             4.2       105.0
Sugar                           35.0            -            80.0           -
1 The appraised target yields were to be reached at full development - in
the sixth year after ccmpletion of project works or in 1994.
2 The numbers used here are the average of transplanted and broadcasted HYV
wet season rice yields.
3 in flooded area



58
TABLE 2:  PROJECTED PRICES FOR RICE AND SUGAR
(in 1985 constant US Dollars)
RICE                                SUGAR
Price Forecast                        Price Forecast
Years         Seot. 1987    Se2t. 1988              Seot. 1987    Sept. 1988
(US Dollars per ton)
1987             169            177                    123           115
1988             175            215                    175           240
1989             182            198                    210           268
1990             193            165                    225           300
1995              212           173                    242           224
2000             216            166                    242           254
(F.O.B Bangkok, 5% broken, export-quality Thai white rice)



59
This Summary is extracted from the lengthy
report prepared by the consultants Ilaco in Association
with Empire M. & T. Co. Ltd. for the Royal Irrigation
Department. Copies are on file at the Operation
Evaluations Department and are available on request.



60
SUMMARY
introduction
The Mae KYong Irrigition Project - Malaiman Phase I
was implemented during the period 1901-1988 and will actually
be fully implemented in 1989.  It was the second large scale
agricultural development project in the Mae Klong Basin
following similar agricultural developments on the Right Bank
and in the Chao Phya Basin.
Approximately 53.5% of the Project was financed by
the Royal Thai Government, while tor the other 46.5% a loan
from the World Bank (IBRD Loan 2022-TH) was obtained.
The objectives of the Project i.e. increase of the
wet-season rice yields, the extension of the dry-season cropped
area, the creation of possibilities for agricultural
diversification and the improvement of rural employment
opportunities, have been fully achieved.
Unlike the Chao Phya Basin, where irrigation water is
not sufficient for the dry season irrigation of the entire
area, the Greater Mae Klong Irrigation Project in the Mae Klong
Basin, of which the Mae Klong Irrigation Project - ialaiman
Phase I is a part, to date receives an adequate water supply in
the dry seeson. However, it should be understood that in view
of the expansion of the area under irrigation and the fact that
water from the two reservoir dams (the Srinagarind dam and Kao
Laos dam) is also being diverted to the Chao Phya West Bank and
Bangkok Metropolitan, muca, attention should be paid to improve
irrigation efficiencies.
The construction of tertiary irrigation, drainage and
road facilities has improved crop-growing conditions to such an
extent that broadaotL..g and transplanting of local rice
varieties has been almost entirely replaced by transplanting
and nowadays even broadcasting of pre-germinated seed of modern
rice varieties.   L'ry-season cropping in the project area has
increased tremendously. As a consequence of these developments,
labour requirements increased significantly and labour wages
followed suit.   Because of the necessity to complete certain
farm activities in a short period of time in the double
cropping   system   (harvesting,   land   preparation   and
transplanting), the fact that the labour requirements during
these periods could not be fully met and the resulting high
labour wages, farmers turned to mechanized land preparation and
broadcasting of pre-germinated seed.



61
project implementation
In the Mae Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman Phase
I the following main components have been implemented  (the
figures between brackets indicate the amounts at appraisal):
(i)     construction of 18.0 km (19 km) of existing main canals
and service roads;
(it)    construction of 169.0 km (164 km) of lateral and sub
lateral canals and service roads;
(iii)   improvement and enlargement of 76.0 km (70 km) of mair
and secondary drains and construction of 145 km (130
km) of new secondary drains;
(iv)    construction of on-farm works (tertiary canals, drains
and roads) covering an irrigable area of 22,000 ha
(27,000 ha).
A comparison between the planned implementation
schedule at appraisal and the actual implementation schedule is
shown in Figure 1.1.
The Project was implemented under the responsibility
of the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) of the Ministr-y of
Agriculture and Co-operatives (MOAC).   A Project Manager was
appointed, who reported to RID's Deputy Director General for
Construction.   An association of consultants assisted the
Project Management in the implementation of the different
project components.   In actual fact the same Project Manager
and Consultants were involved in this Project as in the Mae
Klong Right Bank Irrigation Project, which was simultaneously
being developed. This made it poE'ible to set up an efficient
management team to coordinate activities in both projects.
Topographical surveys and cadastral surveys for the
design of the tertiary system were based on 1:4,000 scale
aerial photoqrapl% and executed by respectively RID's Survey
Division  and  the  Land  Department.    Surveys  of  the  new
distribution system were carried out by local survey
contractors. This was supervised by the Consultants, who were
responsible for all design work in this Project.
The design work of the main and secondary irrigation
and drainage systL.m was done by Consultants, who used the same
Design Office which was established for the Mae Klong Right
Bank Irrigation Project for this purpose.
Main features of the design of the supply system were
a raise of capacity to 1.6 and 1.5 l/s.ha for main and lateral
canals respectively, incorporation of additional structures to
raise and contronl the water levels and allow for full command
of the command areas even under low supply conditions and for
better operation.
The lay-out and capacity of the drainage system was
reviewed, taking into account the need for cross drainage
through tae project area of drainage water from the western
cat.chment ar-is.   Additional cross drainage structures were



lpple-entation sohedule of Mae Xlong Irrivation ProJeot l-alaiean Phase I
CI3RD loan 23Z2-TH)
Year       Quantity
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   1988    1989
Desoription         Appra-' Aotual
Sal
Envinerting
-ee no              .m a. mm.    a 9IMN
kamas
____ ~           ~       ma                      ___ _ _-I
_ ......~~...............
. .... ............ .
W _S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                        I1
~8. me Sm.~ maim.  e a.  me al.'m u             m     i
Construction                                   a
4 ~ ~ ata   i,p__.nato   so he _                l       _
I.gu .e  .........
r_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......    ... ... ...   ... ......... ,:     ........   ... ..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .I . .. ||............ ....... .......................
Equir-entl                                                         ''''''''''''''''''  +*
Proouremont                                               . . .....                 .........
Note
invol-mentation soh-dule at appraisal
........   actual imrl-mentation sao-dule
Fisur- 1.1



63
designed in the IL main canal for this purpose.   Further, a
flood protection dike in East Malaiman was constructed so as to
protect the on-farm works in that area.
The designed tertiary system is of the so called
'extensive land consolidation* type (Type B) i.e. the ditches,
roads and drains follow the existing cadastral boundaries.
Hence, no reallocation of plots and no land levelling was
allowed for.   However,  as  100% of the  farmers had to be
connected to the water supply, drainage and road system, it can
still be considered an intensive development .  Farmers were
involved in an early stage of the design.   In total about
22,40Q ha were designed by the Consultants Design Office. The
on-farm designs for sugarcane areas were somewhat adapted to
take care to the specific needs in those areas.
The equipment and materials procured under the Mae
Klong Irrigation Project - Malaiman Phase I included
Construction and O&H equipment for respectively USS 952,470.-
and US$ 902,380.-.
At appraisal, project implementation was estimated to
take six years.   However,  due to time consuoing tendering
procedures, obstructing farmers, national budget limitations
and considerable delays in some civil works and OFD contracts,
the civil and on-farm components could not be completed in
time. Consequently, the Project and the Loan had to be extended
with one year i.e. from June 30, 1987 to June 30, 1988.
The construction of civil works was mostly done by
contractors and a minor part by Force Account (some drains).
The quality was generally good.
The construction of on-farm facilities was done by
Contract, in total 22,000 ha and will  be completed in 1989.
The progress and quality was at first, disappointing in Mest
Malaiman due to inexperience of project staff with this type of
work. Moreover, the short construction time available required
accurate planning of work.   Consultants extensively trained
inspection staff to improve the quality while the Project
Management and contractors were assisted in scheduling of the
work. In later years the quality improved considerable.
The Consultants time input under the Project was
spent on design, assistance to the Project Management in the
implementation, assistance to the Regional O&M Office in
operation and Maintenance, and assistance to the Project
Planning Division (Economic Branch) in Monitoring and
Evaluation of the Project.
Operation and maintenance
A very important part of the project activities
included the establishment and implementation of improved O&X
practices at farm level and at project level from the very
beginning of the Project.



64
The integrated development approach which was
followed, in which a very close co-operation and interaction
between design, construction, O&M and economic monitoring and
evaluation was strived after, proved to be of great value for
the development of the area.   An important aspect of this
component was the training of RID field staff and the farmers
in the proper use of the rehabilitated and newly constructed
irrigation and drainage systems.   To this end, also mobile
training units were developed and equipped with adequate
hardware and software, e.g. visual/audio visual aids as
training booklets, irrigation calendars, films, slides sound
series, etc.  Another important step taken, to come to higher
irrigation efficiencies, was the development of a Water
Allocation Scheduling and Monitoring (WA8A2) programme.
Maintenance activities were analysed and an Automated
Maintenance Planning Process (AMPP) programme, to structure the
maintenance process, was developed.
Project expenditures and disbursements
The total project cost will reach at completion in
1989 an estimated amount of Baht 1,887.3 million or US$ 75.5
million equivalent (1988 conversion rate). This total is some
18% under the estimate made at the time of appraisal (1979) and
is mainly due to the fact that the actual total area of on-farm
development implemented was 22,000 ha instead of 27,000 ha
anticipated at appraisal, even though the unit rate for OFD
construction was higher than anticipated.   It was also partly
caused by the change in exchange rate from I 20 per US$ in 1981
to p 25 - A 26 per USS during the period 1985/1988.
The original Agreement between the Government of
Thailand and the International Bank of Reconstruction and
Development was based on a Loan of US$ 57.0 million.   This
figure was reduced in 1987 to US$ 38.0 million. The estimated
final disbursements will, however, only reach a total of some
US$ 35.1 million.  The main reason for the considerably lower
loan disbursements is that some construction work has been
carried out under force account instead of on contract.   For
force account work no disbursement was included in the loan.
Moreover as mentioned in the previous paragraph less on-farm
implementation was carried out and considerable difference in
exchange rates have also caused the disbursements to be less
than anticipated at appraaisal.
Agricultural development
Monitorina of agricultural development, including the
establishment of a set of detailed baseline data in the Mae
Klong Right Bank Irrigation pro3ect area was initially done in
close co-operation with the Economic Branch of RID's Project
Planning Division. As a result of Consultantfs recommendations
to establish an in-house Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, all
project benefit monitoring and evaluation activities since 1985
have been carried out in co-ordination with RID'S Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Branch. All M&E activities have been



65
carried out in close co-operation with project staff and .he
Consultants.   Due to delays In the implementation the first
actual monitoring activities, covering  initially only small
implemented areas, started in 1984.
Cropping intensities in the implemented areas went up
in two to three years from 105% to at least 170-180% calculated
for the total OFD area (rice and sugarcane). For rice areas in
particular, the dry season cropping intensity went up from some
5S to almost 85%. Wet season rice intensities may drop in the
near future to 95% because of still existing flooding problems
in small parts of East Ialaiman.
No information exists on other crops than rice and
sugarcane. In case farmers will start to grow more vegetables
in the near future, the cropping intensity will increase even
further.
To solve the problem with respect to the increase in
the demand for farm labour due to increased cropping intensity
and strict irrigation schedules, farmers are changing their
cultivation practices.   Land preparation  activities are at
present increasingly mechanized with small two-wheel tractors.
Besides mechanized land preparation, the introduction of
mechanized threshing has also been generally accepted.   The
same holds true for small motor'zed spraying equipment.
Moreover farmers are changing from the very labour intensive
transplanting to broadcasting.of rice. Because of the improved
water management conditions (proper supply of irrigation water
and an adequate drainage system) several farmers switched to
broadcasting of pre-germinated seed. It is, however, expected
that the majority of the farmers Aiil continue to transplant
part of the rice crop because of the severe weed problems in
broadcasted rice fields, and because East Malaiman still has a
flooding problem in some parts.
Initially the paddy yields increased considerably in
the newly Implemented OFD areas. However, the rather low paddy
prices have not been an incentive to invest in extra labour for
proper crop cultivation practices and/or in the application of
extra agro-chemicals. Consequently, yields showed a decreasing
trend in 1985 and 1986.   Recent price increases have shown
immediate improvements in the paddy as well as in the sugarcane
yields. The projected yield targets, as given in the Appraisal
Report, have been reached by the farmers in the project area in
a much shorter period than originally foreseen.
Assuming that paddy and cane prices will remain at
fair levels, the stage of fu1l development can be reached by
1990. For paddy this means yields for transplanted HYV of 4.3
ton/ha In the wet season and 4.5 ton/ha in the dry season. For
broadcasted HYV the expected yields are respectively 3.8 and
4.2 ton/he.
Monitoring results showed that the yields which can
be expected without project implementation would be higher than
forecasted in the Appraisal Report.   For details on actual
recorded and projected yields for paddy and suqarcane reference
is made to Table 4.3.



66
Production costs have been influenced by the changes
in cultivation practices but in particular also by the
relatively low farmgate prices of paddy and cane. To keep the
Net Value of Production (NVP) as high as possible farmers
reduced labour costs and the use of agro-chemicals.
Trends  in farm gate  prices between  1980/81 and
1985/86 have had a heq&tive effect on net farm incomes.
Although the projected paddy and cane farmgate prices for 1990-
2010 (based on WB commodity price forecasts for the year 2000)
are better than the prices in recent years, they cannot be
compared with the price projections used in the Appraisal
Report. A projected economic paddy price at present and upto
the year 2010 of p 3,570/ton, compared with a farmgate price of
p 6,900/ton forecasted in 1979 will have an Important effect on
the viability of the Project as a whole.
projeot evaluation
Several  important  facts  have  influenced  the
feazibility of this Ptoject in a rather negative way.  The most
Important one is the delay in the implementation of OFD works.
The fact that the first. and relatively small areas had been
completed only in 1983 and not in 1982 as foreseen during the
appraisal and that the total project area can benefit from the
new irrigation and drainage infrastructu'e only in 1990 instead
of 1987, has reduced the rate of return considerably.
The Project also appeared to be quite sensitive to
the rather low prices of paddy and sugarcane.   The economic
analyses, however, also indicated that the project has been
less sensitive to increases of up to 20% higher investments or
changes of plus or minus 10% in yields. summarizing it can be
said that the feasibility of the Project (ERR - 11%), on the
basis of conditions of today, is considerably lower than the
calculated 23% from the Appraisal Report.   Without delays in
implementation the ERR would have been 15%, calculated on the
basis of prices used in 1979 the result would be 18%.  Also
important is that the differences between with and without
project ;mplementation have proved to be less than expected.
However, despite all these facts, the conclusion must be that,
under present 1988 conditions, the outcome of the economic
analysis is good and probably better than many other and
comparable projects, even when the production of high value
crops such as vegetables in the project area in the near future
is not taken into account.



67
CONCLUS XONS AND BCONXENDaTIONU
The Mae Klonq Irrigation Project - Nalaiman Phase I,
turned out to be a successful large scale irrigation project.
Not only in terms of economics, but also in terms of farmer's
co-operation and participation. In an area of about 22,000 ha
the physical infra-structurs will be such that the conditions
for the cultivation of rice or upland crops are optimal and
maximum yields can be achieved.   The rise In dry season
cropping intensities after implementation and the increase in
yields are good indicators that the farmers utilize the offered
facilities to their full extent.
The ideas developed and experiences gained in the
field of engineering, project implementation, water management
and monitoring and project evaluition will reflect positively
on similar development throughout the Kingdom of Thailand.
Local staff have been involved in depth in the preparation of
design criteria and designs for civil and OFD works.   Local
contractors and RID staff have gained considerable experience
with the implementation of large scale on-farm development
works for which there is still a wide scope in the Kingdom.
The development of the Water Allocation Scheduling and
Monitoring Programs  (WA1N) now already has a positive impact
on several projects. RID is considering to implement W1OAN on
all irrigation projects nation wide.   The work done and
experiences gained in the economic monitoring and evaluation of
the Meklong Irrigation Projects can be of great value for the
evaluation of other existing projects.
Within the Mae Xlon' Irrigation Project - Nalaiman
Phase I Consultants have recommended that due attention should
be paid by the Project Management to the proper completion of
the OFD facilities and to the drainage system and the adjacent
protection dikes In the flood prone areas of East Malaiman. Due
attention should be paid to the Song Phi Nong River, since the
capacity of this river is not sutfissant and when it cannot
discharge the 4rainage water from. the Malaiman areas fast
enough severe flooding in East Malaiman may occur, also causing
major damage to the distribution system.
The advised discharges by the W1SA3 programme should
be strictly implemented. Actual discharges should be monitored
and evaluated. 7t nucleus of trained staff should be retained
for proper operation -and for training of staff for other
projects, in the background and use of WA13K. The coordination
with ECAT should be improved to have more control over
reservoir releases to the Vajiralongkorn dam.
The increased efficiency in water use in the Mae
Xlong Basin will allow for more efficient use of the available
water reriources, wh4ch will enable further agricultural
developments, not only in the Mae Klong Basin, but also in the
Chao Phya Basin; at present already a considerable amount of
water is conveyed to the lower Chao Phya West Bank area for
agricultural and domestic use.



68
Considering the rising trend in commodity prices and
the scope for additional developments in the Wae Klong Basin,
the Consultants have recommended to continue  irrigation
development in the Mae Klong Basin.  Both in the Stage I and
stage II Left Bank areas there is still an enormous potential
for more efficient water use and  increases  in cropping
intensities and yields in case tertiary development is
implemented.  Especially in the Nalaiman sugarcane areas,
farmers are very eager for further development and are willing
to pay for OFD facilities.
It can be concluded that an integrated approach to
irrigation development with attention not only for design and
construction but simultaneously for operation, maintenance and
water management, leads to satisfying results.  The formulation
of an irrigation operation plan beforehand and feedback from
the field to designers and construction staff are important
elements of this approach.
The monitoring of the water distribution and the
results of the agro-economic surveys also contribute to the
regular, direct feedback of field information to the top level
O&M staff.
Results might have been even better, if a consultancy
component on agronomic aspects, such as crop diversification,
extension, marketing, and credit had also been included in the
Project. The latter applies especially to upland crops.
Finally, the results obtained so far have also to be
contributed to the diligence of RID's O&M organization, which,
understaffed still made the Mae .;long Irrigation Project -
Nalaiman Phase I an outstanding example for modern Operation
and Maintenance of an irrigation project in Thailand. The good
cooperation between project construction staff and 06& staff
was an essential contribution to this success therefore, it is
strongly recommended to follow a similar approach for future
developments.
Considering tl!e increasing complexity of the
management and further development of the central plain river
basins with regards to flood control, irrigation and drainage,
water availability and use, reservoir operation etc., and the
interrelationship between the Mae Klong and Chao Phya River
Basins, Consultants recommend an integrated Chao Phya and
Meklong River Basin Development Study.  This study should
include such fields as water resources- development and crop
diversification, river basin planning, hydropower, agricultural
development, irrigation, drainage, flood plain management,
river hydraulics, hydrology, salinity intrusion, water quality,
ecology, sociology, navigation and organization.
An impovi.Ant aspect in managing the water supply to
the different irrigation projects in the Mae Kiong as well as
the Chao Phya Basins is the tuture integration of the existing
WABAN and WIS programmes.



69
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER              ATTACHMENT
Page 1 of 3
Royal irrigation DepartjmAnt
Samseni Road, Bangkok 10300
No. 0,c1/si                                           Th5  land
17 October  B,E. 2533 (1990)
THAILAND - Irrigation Projects XI and XII
(Loans 1787-TH wiid 2022-TH)
Proiect Performance Audit Rport
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
We have received the draft Project Performance Audit Report transmitted by
your letter dated August 20, 1990, for our comments.
The purpose of this report is to serve as a repusitory for lessons learned
by the Bank in restrospect which may be used as reference for future lendings.
The discussions as embodied in the said draft report do touch with the World
Bank former project appraisal missions as well as touching the policies
adopted by the Thai gover.nent at such period of time, the Royal Irrigation
Department does not feel that any more comments seem neccessary.
It is appropriate however to reiterate to you that the economical and social
aspects of Irrigation Projects XI and XII, as well as the way of thinking in
respect to the design engineering of the system, have been carried out at the
recommendation of the Consultant with the knowledge of and approved by the
Bank and its subsequent follow-up missions, i.e., the design wss adopted on
a conmpromising basis between high-tech and conventional gravity flow system.
We have taken note on some of the issues pertaining to 0M of the system at
'ioth projects. Such happenings are normal as the result of the sxisting
social environments of the Thai farmers. We have always been trying to
eliminate, improve and to remedy but this takes some time.
The attached document give some facts and figures not clearly mentioned,
otherwise gives explanations to some of the issues pointed out in the draft
report.
In the meantimc, we are,
Yours sincerely,
tz . L /*J\>Y
(Roongrueng Chunapta)'
)epaty Dircc r ieue rat
w Director  eencra i
Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Iifrastructurc and
Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
181 h Street, N.h., hashington D.C.
U.S.A.



70                       ATTACHMENT
Page 2 of 3
Irrigation Projects XI and XlI
(1) Decrease Project Area (Audit Summary item 22)
In Mae Kiong Right Banh, thec project area was decseasod rcow. 6tw,000 ha
to 44,500 ha actually implemented up to the end of 1989.
The difference equals to 21,500 ha may be explained as follows:
9,900  ha   Area out of command.
10,000  ha   Area not designed due to failure to obtain agreement of
the farmers or owners.
1,600  ha   Area designed for construction, but cancelled afterwards
due to fanners obstruction.
N.B.  Please make corrections due to clerical errior found in Audit
Summary item 18 line number 19 the words "Right Bank" and
"Left Bank" were misplaced.
(2) Loan Cancellations (Audit Summary item 27)
The reasons leading to cancellation of loan amount, a; lhlgh as 32.0%
and 39.5% for Irrigation XI and XII, may be explained as follows:
2.1  The actual imp]emented areas were reduced approximately:
Mae Klong Right Bank reduced by 33%.
Mae Klong Left Bank reduced by 15%.
For Pattani only 29% of the projev:t area were constructed at the
loan closz.ng date.
2.2 At project appraisal stage, the exclhange rate aJopted was uS$
equivalent to 20 Baht. But during implementation, the said
exchange rate was changed and varied between 23 Baht to 26 Baht
to one US$.
2.3  Problems about land ownership in Mae Klong Right Bank resulting
in very high complication to permit construction by contracts as
planned. Thus it was decided to construct the OnFernn facilities
by RID force account for our convenience.
Force account work expenditures could be miet by the loan proceeds
on a fixed rate per hectare. These rates were far below the actual
cxpenditures.
2.4  Much of the! import items which could be di bursed from the loAn
proceeds at 100% of CIF Bangkok prices were cancelled due to
RTC procurement regulations.



ATTACHMENT
71                       Page 3 of 3
(5)  Control structures not calibratcd (Audit Stummary item 28)
On this issue, the Consultant recomended in PCgv of Mac Elong Projects
that a number of control structures, marked with "C", should be checked
for accuracy prior to the operating seasor, following the project
completion.
The checkings were not acconplished at the time of the visit of the
audit staff in February 1990 due to a number of reasons.  However,
we shall see to it that such checkings are accomplished as soon as
possible.
(4)  Off-take structures damaged by farmers (Audit SwiAmry item 28)
This occurred to the Romijn weir structures in the on-farm work area
of the WASAM system. The system was placed under the care and
maintenance by the Water Users Group, while the gate settings are
assisted by RID Gate-Tenders and Zonemen.
In spite of the fact that members pf these Water Users Groups had been
trained to be familiar with IVASAM system and the way the system works,
at the time of intermittent drought when the water released from
upstream have not reached the area as yet, the farmers tend to cause
damage to the structures either by the fact that they do not understand
or by habitual acts.
This problem is being corrected by forcing the water Uscrs Group to
collect monies from the members who caused the damages in order to meet
the repair cost.  This problem will gradually be eliminated in the
course of time.
We beleive that WASAM system will work satisfactorily at Mae Klong
Project, where the amount of water is abundant.  The system is not
introduced at Pattani at the present time, and in other regions the
system ma)' be applied if and where it is considered will render better
resuil t.
(S)  Siphoning (Audit Summary item 28)
This occurred in Mae Klong Left Bank at Song Phi Nong Sub-Pioject,
where the sugar field is located adjacent to 2R canal. The sugar field
is outside the area covered by the Bank financed project area.
After Irrigation XII loan closing date, the RTG provided budget
allocation to provide water to cover the whole area of the Right Bank.
While the system is under design it is neccessary to permit the sugar
field to temporarily draw the required water from the nearby canals
until the system is constructed.



1ll  . ~~~Ca (ra < ~~C 7'                                                   -.             4'
MPYANMAR                                  -                                                              ,
I z>'-'                     \ dEKCNG        ASN                                               _ _
-. - -' .'                                                                      -  
S A L VV E E N-
*      ) >SALWEEBi -!' )J    'e<"' )<!r   
:   BASIN                                   -
t   \ -    '     , . j, . .,> 0  D.l.7       \                                  .,
V                                I    ~~~~~~REPUBLIC
7 r              } 't   f                 '\[ f' ' ,  N'  NF  E S
'                      N,                                 AV'.-\IC... '                                              P 7
I  tNNORTHER REGION    /                                                          RG_
'   i,   ,                 \      Wt               X             fUA- NV'. 7 ,'Al                     ,r'           ST
F                                                                                                    /.tA     REGION -1e  !v  
rt  -   r   l   V        X                                 ~~~~~~~~~~LN OR THE A STRGO
tNx                                                       7,, -, -,4S
TAI
s"                                      PHVITSASALO                     Ns-
MYANMAR                       .                                           F
NS                                                  \ArT- C C\,'                                                                         Pr ,
(5>9  M2A              E\  ->            e       SCUlS                                         6
MAE                                                                            >-
7  '-       KLONG                                      CAT NAT           J
BASIN                                                                  /
DAM                                     DA 
N'  ',LOWER 045 tUAAANNII
<   '4e.    5S^,'Al DA.,\                    REGIO          NK            w      v     O 
-N4                                           K C'\  ,   j  A NAR U RI-    \   A J                     5 a 2     '40URI
THAILAND                                                                                                     A'
IRRIGATION  DESIGN  AND MANAGEMENT                                                  AKRrON PATHOM
NORTHERN AND CENTRAL REGIONS                      S    -                                           NGKOK                    BASIL
UNDER CONSTRUCTION                  -
RAW AND RESERVOIRS
NEW PROJECTS                     ..-       -      S
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
D OAMS4ANRESERVOIRS                         .PETCRABURI
DIVERDION DARMS
IRRIGATED AREAS
EILLYT ADD MERUNTAINOUS AREAS NOT 
SUITALEC FOR IRRIGATION         -t
--         ROADS                                      NiR.AA DAM
t~--C  RAILWAYS
RIVERS AND DIVERSION DAMS
S~--   RIVER RBASIN OUNDARIES                                AAEUI                           MILES 90  I               0 4 S
,B   -    -   REGION BOUNDARIES                                                              '                   , 
_ITERNARIDNAL DOUNDARIES                                                     KILOEERS ;    20    46   GO   B0 V



r 000 XOOO1020                                                                                       1040                                    THAILAND
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC                                                          IRRIGATION DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT
)   REP 5 UB8 LIC G                <           X                                 NORTHEASTERN REGION
180  )                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER CONSTRUCTION  8
.;/////  IMPROVEMENT PRCJECTS
EXISTING
Si S..kho                                          DAMS AND RESERVOIRS
IRRIGATED AREAS
okLt-r Pi1aooo             HILLY AND MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
NOT SUITABLE FOR IRRIGATION
C   H  A  0                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
C   H   A   0 ~~~~(RAILWAYS
P  H  Y  A                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS AND DIVERSION DAM
P]                   \ HX        ' 1 Yb                   o   / A?               H   \   4    4                    -   -     RIVER   BASIN   BOUNDARIES
i1   ~~~~~~~~~~~Uov,REGION BOUNDARIES
HI A   S  I N                                                                      ffINTE - = RNATIONAL.  -                                                          BOUNDARIES
III( A.'S,                                                                                                                  -               r'
o ;Axv>vt~~~CRIII                              ph ('O2 06 010101010DMOAIKMPCE
chi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
)        Cha,y~ho      N  A                    N 
o7~~~~~~~~~~~~o
I -                         . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           5 ~~~~~~~ 20   40      60      80     1051~
- -- 77  0.0                                           K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMETERS                                                                       1Q
5   20  40   6'0  850  100  120  140  16       DEMOurHATiC    KAMPUiCHEA



98          -                    %5NGKOK Io                                                               1602
THAILAND
IRRIGATION DE'SIGN AND MANAGEMEN I
SOUTHERN REGION
IJNDER CONSTRUCTION
(                                                     *a W NEW PROJECT
CHUMPHON                            Z///Z  IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
J   DAM AND RESERVOIR
*//    S    l                                              EXISTING
IRRIGATED AREAS
IRANONG                                                      ROADS
I-4--*\-I-IRAILWAYS
/    RIVERS AND DIVERSION DAM
HILLY AND MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
NOT SUITABLE FOR IRRIGATION
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SURAT
f    >  : X        S~~TUHRANT[
0   20   40  60   80  100
KILOMETERS __________         ____
MILES
PHANGANGA                                             KHON S0                            20       40      60
THAMMARAT
-KRAB +            -         /J                                                                         8
8
;PHUKET                    
-  .   R ;  PHATTHALUNG
t 1 < \ \ SONGKHLA
MYANMAR,                  .-                                         _= 
.   LAO PECPLE'S                                    '      |
NARATHIWAT
T H A I L A N D    \).B                             ;t                           W ._)\
BANGKOK       E.                                                                          Rarig    k     J
KAMPUCHEA                                                                 Valm
.   AREA
i'   OF MAP         6         m.,                                             \P)
0a C COO 01CM CC   'O
rx      rlf"~~~~~~~~~ls ~~M    A    L  A   Y   S   I A
MALAYSIA                                  100                                                  102
'                                                    . _ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



