Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3087-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 3, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C32105/J78940/D2161/41
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Baht (B)
$1.00          -    B 20.0
B 1.00          -    $0.05
$1 million     -    B 20.0 million
B 1 million    -    $50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                           -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                         -  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)                  0.386 square miles
iBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAAC     -   Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
DAE      -   Department of Agricultural Extension
MOAC     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
O&M      -   Operation and Maintenance
RID      -   Royal Irrigation Department
ROYAL THAI GDVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1-September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT'
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $57 million
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
9.6% per annum.
Project
Description: The purpose of the proposed project is to assist the Royal
Irrigation Department (RID) in its continuing programn to
improve and expand Thailand's irrigation facilities. The
project includes (a) construction and/or improvement of
main, lateral and tertiary canals and drains (including
adjacent farm roads) for irrigation of an area of about
27,000 hectares on the left bank of the Mae Klong River
(East and West Malaiman areas); (b) review of RID's organi-
zation with a view to determining staffing, training and
reorganization requirements and implementation of a plan of
action for strengthening RID; and (c) preparation of future
irrigation projects. The project will directly benefit some
6,800 farm families, about 40% of whoin at present have
incomes below the absolute poverty level. A further 2,000
landless agricultural households living in the project area
would also benefit because of the additional labor demand
generated by the project. The project entails no unusual
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                      Local      Foreign       Total
--------  $ million --
Civil works                           26 . 5      3 2.4        58.9
Equipment and vehicles                 0.2         2.3           2.5
Buildings                              0.6         0.1          0.7
Right-of-way                           4.0           -           4.0
Consulting services                    2.5         5.9           8.4
Engineering and administration         5.8         1.2           7.0
Base cost                          39.6         41.9         81.5
Physical contingencies                 3.9         4.9           8.8
Price contingencies                   14.5        10.2         24.7
Total                              58.0         57.0        115.0 /a
Financing Plan:                     Local       Foreign       Total
- --------- $ million -------
Government                         58.0            0         58.0
Bank                                   0        57.0         57.0
58.0        57.0        115.0
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY:  1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
----------------- $ mil lion ----------
Annual                                 2.5    9.5   13.0   14.0   13.0    5.0
Cumulative                             2.5   12.0   25.0   39.0   52.0   57.0
Rate of Return:  23%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 3277-TH, dated June 1, 1981.
/a Includes $3.0 million in taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE P'RESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ro THE EXECUTEVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand For the equivalent of $57 million to help
finance the Twelfth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.         A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on September 18, 1978. The report concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signi-
ficant reduction in absolute poverty, but that the poorest have lagged behind
this progress. It identifies the essential characteristics of these groups
and points to the need for continued overall development as well as the ini-
tiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in
rural areas. It further discusses the constraints on the successful imple-
mentation of these policies. A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No.
3067a-TH) which provides an updating of macroeconomic developments was issued
on January 8, 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.         The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on the political decision-making process within the country.
Trhe Government under the prime ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
formed in November 1977, resigned in February 1980 following increasing public
and parliamentary criticism of its economic policies. General Prem
Tinsulanonda was elected by the National Assembly as Prime Minister after
receiving the support of nearly all major political parties. General Prem's
government, formed in March 1980, included leaders from the political parties
which supported him. General Prem soon announced his government-s policies on
a number of issues including economic and social development. These policies
place high and imnmediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising
ruraL incomes and measures to improve health and education.  Particular
emphasis was given to generating more jobs and a rural public works program,
similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program, was included as a major element in this
strategy. The Government also intended to exert efforts to contain inflation
and a more gradual adjustnent of energy prices was advocated at the same time
/1 Parts I and II are substantially the same as those presented in the
President's Report (P-3049-TH) dated May 1, 1981 for the Power Subsector
Project approved by the Executive Directors on May 21, 1981.



- 2 -
that domestic energy resources were being developed. Reforms in monetary and
fiscal policy and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export
performance were also called for.  As discussed below, these reforras liave been
crucial for increasing resource rmobilization (especially in tlhe public sector)
and reducing the current account deficit.  In March 1981, however, the Social
Action Party and other coalition parties resigned on an issue of handling fuel
oil contracts and a new cabinet was formed comprising members of the United,
Chat Thai, and Democrat parties.  This change was immediately followed by an
attempted coup by a group of military officers.  However, tthe coup failed, and
the political situation has returned to normal.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.         Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor sus-
taining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% per year;
water control was imaproved; irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment, between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieveèd with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
debt service remained quite low.
5.         The large growth in incomes over the last two decades, however, has
not been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are significant regional differentials in incomes and access to economic and
social infrastructure. The wide regional variations in terms of topography,
climate, soils, urbanization, etc., present distinct problems for future
development.  The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest per
capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the three remaining regions, the North,
Northeast and South. There is also considerable variation within each region;
farmers who have diversified into cash crops generally have enjoyed substan-
tial growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent
research has shown that inappropriate cropping patterns and agricultural
techniques are major factors in much of the rural poverty. This is most
conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Nortlheast and North.
Since there is a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large
group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
6.         Concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years, the Government has



- 3 -
initiated efforts to increase the tlow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Prograin of direct transfers to villages in
1975/76, the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978,
the new village development programn in 1979 and the rural employment program
in 1980.  These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more attention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if tthese programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975/76, there is some concern about the
efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing the
budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels of
government.
7.         Thailand's balance-of-payments position and its trade prospects are
now less favorable than in the early 197Us. The overall balance of payments,
which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has shown deficits averaging almost
$500 million annually since 1977.  In 1978, thie current account deficit
reached $1.1 billion or 5% of GDP, and increased in 1979 to $2.1 billion, or
about 8% of GDP.  The most significant changes in the external environment
have been the rapid increase in the price of imported petroleum, the decline
in net transfer and service payments to Thailand and the conjunction of
inflation and recession throughout the world. In 1980, there was only a
relatively small further increase in the current account deficit, and it
dropped in relation to GDP. This salutary result was probably partly due to
temporary favorable factors.
8.        To contain and finance the balance-of-payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of measures. It has increased significantly its
borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar market and, at the
beginning of 1980, raised interest rate ceilings by 3 percentage points in
order to encourage domestic savings and to curtail the flight of capital
abroad. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively.
9.         The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the growth
of imports. In March 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were raised,
along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline. Petroleum
product prices were raised successively in February, May and July 1979 and
February 1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline, to the
equivalent of $0.47 per liter.  After a proposed power tariff increase of
about 55% was rejected in November 1979, lesser tariff increases of about 50%
at bulk supply level and 38% at retail level were implemented in February 1980
and further increases of 43% at bulk supply level and 35% at retail level were
implemented in two stages in October 1980 and January 1981.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.        In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable



- 4 -
distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, provision of infrastructure by the Government, and the dynamism of the
private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have been
made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of population
growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979. The
target for 1981 is 2.1 percent.
II.        Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of the rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time, addi-
tional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural production
and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view of these
factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may lead to a
deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next decade; persis-
tently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of unemployment or
underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer
segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among unskilled
workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external factors of
rapid oil price increase and recession in the developed countries. The oil
price increase alone added about $1.0 billion to the 1980 import bill, even
with no increase in import volume, and the current account deficit is esti-
mated to be about 7% of GDP. The unfavorable external situation will require
major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall growth rate
will exceed about 6% p.a. in the coming years.
12.        Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time, it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government-s role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transi-
tion, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated long-term
policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.        Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively



to th,é indust-l   Tcaor.  Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about
one-third of total exports.  Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24X in 1979, almost double
the growth rate of total exports.  While continuei growth of manufactured
exports is essential, the Large domestic market also offers opportunities for
a balanced industrial growth based on production of consumer goods, agricul-
tural inputs and processing of agricultuiral outputs for urban consumption.
Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price distortions,
to increase availability of credit, and to eliminate impediments to efficient
production for domestic and foreign markets so that the Government's policy of
relying on the dynamic private sector for spurring growth and creating jobs
will succeed.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fifth Plan (1982-86)
are to achieve a 7% p.a. real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduc-
tion in the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment oppor-
tunities and balanced regional development. In contrast to earlier Plans
which addressed sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, the
Government intends to identify the concrete policies and programs to meet the
Fifth Plan's economic and social objectives in much more detail.  The National
Economic and Social Development Board and the more specialized agencies of the
Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the Fifth
Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and the
formulation of development policies and programs. These studies may help
identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment. Con-
sultations between the Government and the Bank are satisfactory; several
substantive discussions have taken place since the present Government came to
power and a comprehensive discussion was held at the Consultative Group
Meeting in Paris on February 3 and 4, 1981.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will retquire much greater efforts
to mnobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past.  The
Government's domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79), is
low compared to other developing countries at similar levels of development
due to low tax rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of
compliance. With expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal
year 1979/80 was about $1.4 billion, or over 5% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. To reduce the reliance on foreign
financing, and thereby the deficit on the current account of the balance of
payments, the Government intends to keep the 1980/81 deficit to about $1.0
billion or about 3.5% of GNP. In addition, the financial situation of public
enterprises will be improved.



16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase.  Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% p.a. and
increased domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the
price of imports, led by the price of petroleun, implies that large trade and
currenit account deficits are expected to persist through tlhe rfid-1980s.  The
Government's objective is to keep the current account deficits during the
Fifth Plani period in absolute anounts to about the recent level of sliglhtly in
excess of $2 billion per annum.  This will necessitate significant efforts in
implementing energy saving measures, proimoting agricultural growth and
exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection in industry, promotino
more labor-iuLtensive exports, and postponing riajor caplLal-intensive
investrients until the econorly can afford them.  -ven the realization of tLe
Government's ambitious balance-of-payments targets will require very large
amounts of external borrowing, totaling rmore than $10 billion over the period
1982-86.  Less f,avo)rable assumptions would increase this armount to S13 bil-
lion.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the developrment banks, have
been expanding their programs to mleet a larger part of Thailand's growing
resource requirements.  The rest has been financed in the Furodollar market
and bond riarkets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy
Committee to coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public
sector. The Bank of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private
borrowing abroad in order to heep trackl. of total foreign deht.  At the recent
Consultative Groulp meeeting, various delegations indicated thlat in 1981 about
S1.2 billion would be available from official sources. External agencies,
including the Banlc Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated
project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have high social beneflits,
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings.  To achieve the level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects where the foreign exchange conponent is lowj, to finance some local
currency expenditures.  Programa and structural adjustment lending are also
being considered.
18.       By 1985, net disburserments will viort i:lan double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing.
Still the debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will not exceed 10%
at any time.  Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance, the
debt service ratio on total public and private civilian borrowing (currently
about 15,) will rise to abouit 20% before declining.  Given the diversification
of Thai commodity exports and thie rapid expansion of manufactured exports,
these debt service requirements should he sustainable if rapid export growtl
continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and economic stability is
miaintained.
PART II - BANKx GROUP OPERATIOJTS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of April 30, 1981, had received 62 IBRD loans amounting to
about $2,078 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribtition of



these loans has been as follows:  $411 million for transportataon; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation;  $726 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $193 million for agricultural and rural
development; $149 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $81 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits: two
credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million for
rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation improve-
ment; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In general,
Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in
accordance with expectations.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the execution
of ongoing projects as of April 30, 1981.
20.        Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a programn dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of thie lending thirough FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Governmnent's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly.  Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecomnmunications and
industry hlave accounted for only about 50'% of Bank Group lending and more than
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the agricul-
tural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 35% of lend-
ing operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has also
changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced program
covering irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural extension,
research and credit, and rural development). Projects in the social sectors,
which prior to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of
the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years education,
population and low-income housing projects have accounted for about 15% of the
program.
21.        The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and more recent
econonic missions verify the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, and
underscore the need to move even further in designing programs which help the
rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have been
largely bypassed by recent economic growth.  Hience, in the agricultural
sector, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will
help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence.  A combina-
tion of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and improved
infrastructure is foreseen. However, the maajor problem is the absence so far
of a viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers.  Expansion and
improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on
rehabilitation of small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes and on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report is
the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity outside of



- 8 -
Bangkok. Therefore, the bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial lending
will be directed to projects which enhance the attractiveness of regional
cities as service centers for the agricultural economy of those regions.
Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies providing
essential services to the urban population and the development of low cost,
replicable programs to meet the demands of the urban sector, particularly the
urban poor, without diverting scarce resources from other high-priority
development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward institu-
tional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in
Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare
such projects. Pronoting overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand
and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource
requirements for infrastructure development, particularly for developing
energy and its domestic primary sources to reduce dependence on imported oil,
are large, and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds in projects where
it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes and mobilizing other
resources. The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector
through its economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to
help promote industrial policies which promote exports and favor more labor-
intensive and dispersed activities.
23.        Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of publ4c
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group-s share of public
debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt service includ-
ing private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest overall
public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In addition, although the level
of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five years, the Bank
Group's share would be below 30% of total public external debt as Thailand has
diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in total debt out-
standing is expected to fall to below 20%, and its share of total debt service
would not exceed 10 percent.
24.        As of April 30, 1981, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$110 million in nine projects in Thailand. A tin mining project has also
recently been approved by the Board. IFC's investments have been primarily
in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed at
mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises.
Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by
expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with the Govern-
ment have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be needed.
These areas include very large and complex projects such as a proposed soda
ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the petroleum and down-
stream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricultural sector.
A tantallum processing industries project is at an advanced stage of consider-
ation. IFC expects to continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and
to assist in financial institutions and money market developments.



- 9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
25.        Thailand-s agricultural sector, contributing 30% of GDP, has grown
at an average annual rate of 5% since 1960. The sector generates some 60%
of the country-s export earnings, and employs 75% of its labor force, with
employment growing annually at about 1.5%. Increases in the value of
production have largely resulted from diversification into upland crops,
including maize, sugarcane, cassava, tobacco and rubber, whose rapid increase
in production has offset the decline in cotton, coconut and other minor
crops. Crop diversification has been mainly the result of additional land
being brought under cultivation rather than crop substitution. Despite the
rapid growth of upland crops, the proportion of land planted to rice
remains very high at 85% in the North, 60% in the Central Region, and 76% in
the Northeast.
26.        Growth in agriculture has been the result of an active and
flexible farming community, which has responded to favorable world market
opportunities, and an effective and highly competitive marketing system.
The public sector's contribution to agricultural development has been mainly
in the provision of physical infrastructure, especially roads and irrigation
facilities and crop research, with particular emphasis on rice breeding.
Nearly 60% of the public expenditure (and 80% of public investment) in
agriculture, which has fluctuated between 7% and 10% of total government
expenditures, has been in irrigation development. Expansion of irrigation
facilities has been a major factor in maintaining Thailand's comparative
advantage in rice production, particularly through the construction of
storage dams and major irrigation projects in the Chao Phya Basin. Road
construction has provided access to new lands and has been the main stimulus
for diversification into upland crops.
27.        The potential for expanding the cultivable area, a major factor in
the past growth of agriculture, has now been almost fully exploited and
further growth will depend on more intensive use of existing farmland and
higher yields. The area in agricultural use at present is about 20 million
ha, of which approximately 14 million ha are cropped annually.
Irrigated Agriculture
28.        Most of the irrigable areas in Thailand are in the flood plains of
the major rivers, where a combination of heavy rainfall and flooding
precludes the cultivation of crops other than paddy in the wet season.
Since virtually all land suitable for rice is now cultivated in the wet
season, any major gains in rice production will have to come from higher
yields in both rainfed and irrigated areas, and increases in the area
cropped in the dry season. Year-round irrigation for intensive double
cropping is dependent on storage dams to conserve wet-season runoff.



- 10 -
29.       Until the 1960s, irrigation development in Thailand was concentrated
in the area of greatest potential and highest level of economic development,
the Chao Phya Basin, covering large areas in the North and Central regions.
Major developments outside the Basin in the last 15 years include: two
projects to develop the Mae Klong Basin (second in size to the Chao Phya
Basin); the construction of six large dams on the principal rivers of the
Northeast region; numerous medium-scale schemes in the South and a start on
development of the Pattani Basin.
3o.       In 1904, the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) was formed as the
agency in charge of water resource management throughout Thailand.  RID's
first major undertaking was the completion of a network of navigation/drainage
canals over 500,000 ha in the southern Chao Phya Plain.  RID later turned its
attention to the construction of a gravity irrigation system of 600,000 ha in
the Northern Chao Phya Plain. A key element in this system, the Chainat
Diversion Dam, together with a number of major canals, was financed by the
Bank in 1950 (Ln. 36-TH). This was the Bank's first loan to Thailand for
irrigation development.
31.       Initially, an extensive mode of development was followed by RID and
this was successful in providing vast areas with reasonable security against
flood and drought risks for a low-yielding, wet-season paddy crop. However,
it became apparent in the 1960s that higher standards of water control within
the irrigated areas were needed to exploit fully the Basin's irrigation poten-
tial. The Bank-financed "Ditches and Dikes Project" (Ln. 328-TH) in 1963
therefore aimed to serve some 1.5 million ha with a simple system of tertiary
canals. Later, as new high-yielding rice varieties were introduced and rice
prices began to rise, further improvements in water control became economical-
ly feasible. The Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 379-TH),
financed by the Bank in 1973, pioneered on a large scale (15,000 ha) an inten-
sive mode of on-farm development comprising tertiary canals, drains, farm
roads and land leveling. A follow-up project for 60,000 ha (Ln. 1468-TH) was
financed in 1976. Another major Bank project in the Basin, the Phitsanulok
Project, for which a loan (Ln. 1149-TH) was made in 1975, consists of a new
system for 95,000 ha downstream of the Sirikit Dam; this was the first
Bank-financed project in the Northern Region.
32.        Nearly 1.3 million ha in the Chao Phya Basin benefit from water
control works in the wet season.  About 450,000 ha are now irrigated in the
dry season, compared to less than 100,000 ha before the Sirikit Dam was
completed. There is no further scope for increasing dry-season flows to the
Chao Phya Plain since there are no additional large reservoir sites on the
tributaries. However, improved efficiency of water use in both seasons
would allow some increase in dry-season irrigation.  There is also
considerable potential for raising wet-season paddy yields through higher
standards of on-farm development.



- 11 -
33.        In the Mae Klong Basin, situated  immediately to the west of the Clhao
Phya Basin, construction of the first stage of a project, which would eventu-
ally serve nearly 120,000 ha of the basin's 400,090 ha of irrigable land,
began in 1964 with Bank assistance (Ln. 394-TH). Construction of the Bank-
financed Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) multipurpose dam on the Kwae Yai
(Ln. 977-TTi) began in 1974, and dry-season water became available in 1978.
Construction of the Khao Laem dam on the Kwae Noi is being financed under Loan
1770-TH and is scheduled for completion in 1984.  It: is now possible to expand
considerably year-round irrigation in the M4ae Klong Basin wlhich has by far the
greatest potential for increased production of any of Thailand's river basins.
To exploit this potential, on-farm development will be stressed in conjunction
withi upgrading and extending the main irrigation and drainage systems.  In
1979, the Bank therefore made a loan for an Eleventh Irrigation Project (Loan
1787-TH) which included a component to develop the Mae Klong right bank area.
34.        The Northeast is poorly endowed with water resources; full control
of the region's rivers would irrigate less than 10% of the 3.5 million ha of
paddy land. In the 1960s, RID, with bilateral assistance, undertook a major
program of dam construction in the region.  RID is now engaged in a program to
improve irrigation systems downstream of the large dams, with loans from
various sources, including the Bank (Cr. 461-TH and Ln. 1630-TB).  Completion
of these works will bring year-round irrigation to 160,000 ha, nearly half of
the region's irrigation potential.
35.        In the South, about 75,000 ha are served by numerous projects
consisting of diversion dams and canals.  The main purpose of these diversion
projects is to provide supplementary irrigation for the wet-season rice crop.
Dry season cropping is limited by the low flow of the rivers to about 10,000
ha.  kbout 45,000 ha in the low-lying coastal areas benefit from "conservation
projects" which consist of drainage systems and control works to prevent salt
water intrusion.  Three large projects have been studied:  two involve
multipurpose developmnents of the Pattani and Ta Pi-Phun Duang River Basins,
and a third would use the Songkhla Lake as a source of irrigation water.  The
total irrigation potential of the three projects is close to 160,000 ha. The
most advanced is the Pattani project, which includes a dam and power plant on
the Pattani River, financed by a Bank loan in 1977 (Ln. 1485-TH) and scheduled
for completion by late 1981. The dam will provide sufficient water for the
40,000 ha of irrigable land in the Pattani area. Construction of irrigation
works for the first 15,000 ha is included in the ELeventh Irrigation Project
(Loan 1787-TH).
36.        In 1976, Bank staff undertook a review of the irrigation subsector
at the request of the Covernment.  Estim,iates of the required increase in paddy
production needed for Thailand to meet growing domestic demand and to maintain
its share of the world market indicated that production would have to increase
from 15.1 million tons of paddy in 1976 to 22.7 million tons in 1990. Assuming
a yield increase of 20% in rainfed paddy areas, irrigated paddy production
would have to more than double from 5.5 million tons to 12 million tons.  The
review outlined a programn to be carried out in the period 1977-90 to meet this
demand.  The program comprises improvement of 710,000 ha, extension of



- 12 -
290,000 ha of existing irrigation systems, and new irrigation projects
covering 315,000 ha. Although the proposed program is reasonably well
distributed between the four major regions, irrigation by itself has limited
scope for redressing regional income inequalities since irrigation projects
must be located in areas with suitable soils, topography, water supply and
production potential.
37.       As a follow-up to this review, Bank staff have helped RID and other
government agencies to prepare individual projects to be initiated in the
period 1980-84 which would be suitable for external financing. The proposed
project is a direct outcome of this review. In the Northeast, the program
includes the Nam Mun project, consisting of two storage dams and new irriga-
tion systems for 19,000 ha. Projects in the North would include a dam on the
Yom River to irrigate about 90,000 ha and the Mae Kok project for some 20,000
ha. A nationwide medium-scale irrigation project would cover new schemes, as
well as rehabilitation of existing ones. A start would also be made on a
number of possible projects in the Bang Pakong Basin to the east of the Chao
Phya Basin. Preparation of these as well as other schemes is being financed
under current Bank loans for irrigation projects.
38.        The 1977-90 irrigation program presents a major challenge to RID's
project implementation capacities. In the past, fragmentation of project
activities among various divisions and offices has caused serious coordination
problems in project implementation, since no single individual or division has
been responsible for ensuring that a project achieves its primary objective of
timely and reliable delivery of water to the farmers' fields. Progress has
been made in overcoming this problem in Bank-financed projects by the appoint-
ment of project managers with responsibilities for coordinating the inputs
from several divisions. In its overall operations, however, planning and
programming continue to be weak and control of the expanding work program is
becoming increasingly difficult. An Organization and Administration Study
was carried out by consultants financed under the Phitsanulok Project (Ln.
1149-TH). The proposed project will build on the recommendations of that
study to enable RID to meet the challenge of the coming decade (para. 43).
39.        Since 1950, Bank assistance to Thailand-s water resource development
has included financing for five multipurpose dams and eleven irrigation pro-
jects for a total of $626 million. Two Project Completion Reports have been
prepared, one for the Sirikit Dam (Ln. 514-TH) and one for the Chao Phya
Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 379-TH). These two projects were the
subject of a joint Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2850). The Sirikit
Dam project was very successful; it permitted rapid expansion of dry season
cropping in the Chao Phya Basin and was a timely addition to the country-s
power production. The Chao Phya project was also successfully completed and
has provided valuable experience to the Government in the planning, design
and implementation of an intensive mode of on-farm development. This standard
of development permits better water control leading to increased yields and
more efficient use of water. The Chao Phya project provided the first
opportunity for both RID and the domestic contracting industry to undertake
on-farm works and, together with subsequent Bank projects, it led to a rapid



- 13 -
development of their capabilities to carry out such works. A further
encouraging development in recent projects has been the employment of local
consultants to augment RID's own capacity in the detailed design of on-farm
development. The Chao Phya project also provided for the restructuring and
intensification of extension services in the area, which worked well and gave
the basis for the Bank-financed national extension projects (Ln. 1393-TH and
Ln. 1752-TH) and for improving extension in subsequent Bank-financed irriga-
tion projects. The report found that there was some need to strengthen RID's
capabilities for operation and maintenance (O&M), and this has been emphasized
in more recent projects which have included provisions for consulting services
to assist RID in developing improved O&M procedures in these project areas.
RID is now, with bilateral assistance, examining how it could further
strengthen its O&M capability nationwide. Implementation of current Bank
projects is satisfactory, and good progress is being made in overcoming the
procurement delays which affected some earlier projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
40.        The proposed project was developed from feasibility studies prepared
by RID and its consultants. A feasibility study for the Mae Klong area,
completed in 1968 with assistance from the United States Bureau of Reclamation
and financed by the Bank (Ln. 394-TH), formed the basis for works constructed
in the early 1970s. A further study to identify priority projects in the
basin was undertaken by ILACO (Netherlands) in 1975, and financed under the
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Cr. 379-TH). ILACO also assisted
RID in carrying out a feasibility study in 1979/80 of the 175,000 ha Malaiman
area on the left bank of the Mae Klong. This study, financed under the Second
Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project (Ln. 1468-TH), forms the basis for
the proposed project which was appraised in October 1980. Negotiations were
held from May 11 to May 14, 1981. The Government delegation was led by H.E.
Khun Prok Amranand, Ambassador to the United States, assisted by Khun Sunthorn
Ruanglek, Director-General, RID.
Project Description
41.        The project includes (a) improvement of the Mae Klong irrigation
system; (b) strengthening of RID; and (c) assistance in the preparation of
future irrigation projects. The proposed irrigation works would directly
benefit about 6,800 farm families, most of whom are presently dependent on a
single crop of rainfed rice. The project would provide for irrigation facil-
ities and on-farm development on about 27,000 ha on the left bank of the Mae
Klong River. The project would take advantage of an assured water supply
which would be provided by two Bank-financed multipurpose storage dams, the
Srinagarind dam (Ln. 977-TH), when it is completed in 1984, and the Khao Laem
dam (Ln. 1770-TH) which together will be able to irrigate the entire 400,000
ha of irrigable land in the Mae Klong area. Water would be diverted to the



- 14 -
project area by the existing Vajiralongkorn diversion dam (Ln. 394-TH).
Details of the project are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Thailand Twelfth Irrigation Project" (No. 3277-TH dated June 1, 1981) which
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.  Supplementary
project data are given in Annex III.
42.        The main features of the Mae Klong irrigation works would be:
(a) construction of 19 km of main canals and service roads;
(b) construction of 164 km of lateral and sublateral canals and
service roads;
(c) improvement and enlargement of 70 km of main and secondary drains
and construction of 130 km of new secondary drains; and
(d) tertiary canals, drains and farm roads for about 27,000 ha.
The project would also provide equipment for construction, communication,
operation and maintenance.
43.        The size of RID and its range of resnonsibilities have increased
enormously in recent years but there has been no corresponding change in the
structure of the organization.  Concern about the ef ficiency of RID led to an
Organization and Administration Study which was carried out by consultants
financed under Loan 1149-TH and completed in mid-1979.  The consultants'
recommendations would retain the existing organization along functional
lines but would provide a more logical grouping of the different branches,
strengthening of senior and middle mangement levels and a clearer definition
of the responsibilities of the Deputy Directors General and Chief Engineers.
The consultants also recommended improvements in planning and budgeting and a
closer monitoring of the implementation and impact of irrigation projects.  To
be effective, these changes would also have to be accompanied by improvements
in the quality of staff through training and better promotion prospects.  RID
has submitted proposals to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC)
based upon the consultants- recommendations, and the Administrative Committee
for Foreign Loans in Irrigation in MOAC has set up a Subcommittee for the
Reorganization of RID to consider these changes.  T)uring negotiations, the
Government agreed that: (a) RID will review with the Bank, by September 30,
1981, its proposals with respect to the consultants' recommendations; (b) RID
will prepare a plan of action for review with the Bank by January 31, 1982;
and (c) the Government will implement that plan of action in a timely manner
after consultation with the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 --
Consulting Services
44.        Consultants would be engaged to assist RI) in the preparation of
designs and contract documents, in establishing operation and maintenance
procedures and in project inonitoring and evaluation.  The estimated consultant
input is 185 man-months of foreign staff and 430 man-months of local engineers
and technicians. Funds are also provided for consultants to assist in imple-
menting the agreed reorganization of RID, including necessary training, and to
help plan, design, and prepare contract documents for future irrigation pro-
jects in Thailand. These projects would be selected by RID in consultation
with the Bank. The relative input of foreign and local consultants for such
assistance cannot yet be determined since it will depend on the scope of work
involved. However, the requirements have been roughly estimated at about
275 man-months of foreign and 260 man-months of local staff. All consultants
will be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Appointment
of consultants for design and implementation of the Mae Klong irrigation
works would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 5.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
45.        The project would be implemented over a period of five years begin-
ning in the 1981/82 dry season with the main and lateral canals. Work on
drains and on-farm development would start in 1982. Construction of main and
lateral canals and drains would proceed throughout the year, but earthmoving
operations would be slowed down and sometimes suspended for short periods
during the wet season (July through October). On-farm development would be
confined to the dry season to avoid interference with the wet season crop.
Project Cost and Financing
46.        The total project cost is estimated at $115 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $57 million (50%). Construction costs are based on
quantity and unit price estimates prepared by RID and include about 10% for
taxes and duties. Unit prices are in line with recent bid prices for similar
work in Thailand updated to mid-1981. Physical contingencies of 15% have been
added to all civil works costs. The estimated average man-month costs for
consultants are $6,700 ($11,500 including international travel and subsistence
for expatriate consultants, and $4,500 for local consultants). The estimated
price contingencies over the implementation period amount to 27% of the base
cost plus physical contingencies and assume the following annual rates of
price inflation: for local costs, 16% in 1981, 12% in 1982/83, 10% in 1984,
9% in 1985 and 8% thereafter; and, for foreign costs, 9% in 1981, 8.5% in
L982, 7.5% in 1983-85 and 6% thereafter. The project's foreign exchange cost
would be met by the proposed Bank loan of $57 million. Local expenditures
amounting to $58 million equivalent would be met through annual government
budgetary allocations to RID.



- 16 -
Procarernent
47.       Most of the project's civil works would be carried out by contract
in accordance with RID-s current policy of reducing the share of its
construction program carried out by force account.  The works to be carried
out hy contract include all main and lateral canal construction, on-farm
development and the expansion of main drains.  Construction of secondary
drains (at an estimated cost of $6 million) would be carried out by force
account.
48.       The value of civil works contracts (totalling about $80 million)
would range between $0.5 million and $25 million (including physical contin-
gencies and estimated price increases).  Construction of main and lateral
canals ($39 million) and main drains ($17 million) would each be packaged into
two or tnree contracts and these would be awarded following international com-
petitive bidding.  The size and phasing of contracts for construction of on-
farm works (totalling about $24 million) are dictated largely by the rate at
which detailed designs and contracts can be prepared.  Also, on-farm works
need to be coordinated with the construction of laterals and drains and sche-
duled to permit farmers access to their land at least during the wet season;
these works would be divided into about 10 contracts worth $2-3 million each.
Experience in Thailand has shown that contracts of this type and size are of
little interest to international contractors.  Therefore, contracts for
on-farm works would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally, and contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank would be followed.
Foreign firms would be eligible to bid; contracts would be advertised in Thai
and English in the local press, and documents would be in English.
49.       Most vehicles and equipment ($2.7 million) would be procured follow-
ing international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines.  A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duties if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.  Vehicles
and equipment costing less than $20,000 each and limited to a total of
$300,000, which would not be practicable to process under international
tendering, would be purchased through normal government procurement procedures
(local competitive bidding or competitive quotations) that ensure adequate
competition.
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 100% of the
ex-factory price for items manufactured locally, and 65% of the total costs
for other items procured locally.  For consultants  services, disbursements
would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for civil works would
be at 52% of total contract expenditures, to be disbursed against periodic
contractors- progress payments.  To simplify loan administration, there would
be no disbursements for construction of secondary drains by force account.  It
is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1987.



- 17 -
Project Char-es
51.        In 1975, the Thai Parliament passed the Land Consolidation Act which
provided for the recovery of up to 90% of the cost of constructing common ter-
tiary facilities, the full cost of land levelling, and the full cost of O&M
for on-farma facilities.  This legislation only applies to designated land
consolidation areas wlhich were originally defined as thiose with full boundary
realignment and land levelling.  The definition has recently been relaxed,
however, and the Act can now be invoked with or without full boundary realign-
ment and land levelling, provided 70% of farmers have irrigation ditches
directly serving their plots. These criteria are met in many irrigated
areas in Thiailand and would also be met under the proposed project.  The cost
of tertiary facilities, including land levelling, typically represents 25-30%
of the total cost of irrigation systems, and thus the cost recovery index
obtainable under the Land Consolidation Act is about 25%. On the basis of a
cost recovery study carried out by MIOAC for the Chao Phya Irrigation Project
(Cr. 379-TH), the Government proposed an annual fee of B 690/ha which was also
adopted for the adjacent Second Chao Phya Project (Ln. 1468-TH). The Govern-
ment estimated that for the Second Chao Phya Project, this fee would recover
from beneficiaries approximately 50% of the total cost of on-farm development
(including land levelling) with interest.  The Irrigation Act provides for
collection of O&M fees for facilities not covered by the Land Consolidation
Act.  However, the maximum fee permitted is inadequate and there is no
provision for cost recovery. The Governnent intends to submit to the National
Assembly in 1981 an amendment to the Irrigation Act which would allow for both
capital cost recovery and adequate O&M fees for main systems in all irrigated
areas. The proposed amendment would be in compliance withi a covenant under
the Second Northeast Irrigation Project (Ln. 1630-THI).
52.        Average incomes per capita in thie project area are expected to
increase from $200 at present to about $600 at full development of the pro-
ject, compared to an estimated relative poverty level in 1990 of $420. Farm
incoties are expected to be below the relative poverty level for about 40% of
farmers. In view of these estimates, the same principles of cost recovery as
were adopted for the Second Chao Phya Project (full recovery of O&M costs and
50% recovery for the costs of on-farm development) are considered satisfac-
tory for the proposed project.



- 18 -
53.       Assurances were obtained during negotiations that RID will impose
and collect adequate O&M fees and cost recovery charges established in
agreement with the Bank as follows:
(a) proposals for O&M fees would be submitted to the Bank by June 30,
1982;
(b) O&M charges would be collected from individual farmers starting
within one year after completion of the tertiary system in their
area;
(c) proposals for capital cost recovery (50% of the capital cost of
tertiary systems and a reasonable proportion of the capital cost
of the rest of the system included in the project) would be submit-
ted to the Bank by December 31, 1984, such charges to be recovered
over 15 years, including two years grace, at an interest rate
which reflects prevailing rates for institutional credit in the
agriculture sector; and
(d) cost recovery charges would be collected from individual farmers
starting within three years of completion of the tertiary system in
their area (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
54.       RID would be responsible for project implementation.  RID is now
organized in 22 functional divisions and 12 regional offices. Three Deputy
Directors General and two Chief Engineers assist the Director General in the
management of the Department. RID, together with most of the government
agencies serving agriculture, falls under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives. As in the case of the Eleventh Irrigation Project (Ln. 1787-TH)
the Deputy Director General, Construction, would act as Project Director
responsible for overall direction of the proposed project. The project
manager would have responsibility for day-to-day management and for coordina-
tion with the project consultants, the functional divisions, and other govern-
ment agencies. Field operations would be supervised by a project engineer.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the duties of the Project
Director and Project Manager for Loan 1787-TH would be extended to cover the
proposed project, and a project engineer would be appointed (Section 3.02(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
55.       RID would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system down to the farm turnouts, the service roads, and the main
and collector drainage system. Consultant assistance would be provided to
assist RID in developing O&M procedures for the project. An amount of
$1.2 million would be provided in the loan for the purchase of O&M equipment
to strengthen RID's capacity for O&M work. The annual cost of operating and
maintaining the project facilities for which RID would be responsible is
estimated at $18/ha on average.



- 19 -
Agricultural Support Services
56.       Agricultural support services would be provided to assist the
farmers of the project area in realizing potential benefits.  The Department
of Agricultural Extension (DAE) would be responsible for providing agricul-
tural advice to the farmers. The extension services of DAE are being expanded
and strengthened under a country-wide program financed by Loans 1393-TH and
1752-TH. The proposed project area would be fully covered by the new
extension program in 1981. The project area is adequately provided with
information on the current technology of rice cultivation from the Central
Region rice research station located nearby.  The rice research station would
also provide foundation seed to selected seed growers under DAE's supervision.
At full development, the annual seed requirements would be about 340 tons.
Fertilizer use is expected to increase from about 220 tons p.a. at present to
about 11,800 tons p.a. Commercial channels for distribution are well estab-
lished and private shopkeepers and dealers would have no difficulty in meeting
increased demands. The use of institutional credit is increasing in the
project area and now accounts for about 50% of borrowings. With the develop-
ment of irrigation, the demand for short-term credit is expected to increase
from B 13 million at present to about B 175 million at full development. The
main source of this credit would be the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives (BAAC) which has branch offices in all districts covered by the
project. The recent Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1816-TH) is aimed at
strengthening BAAC and the institutions through which it lends to farmers.
Assurances have been received that BAAC would be adequately staffed and funded
to meet the credit requirements of project farmers (Section 4.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       The Economics Branch of RID's Planning Division would be responsible
for monitoring project implementation. The Irrigated Agronomy Branch of RID's
O&M division would assist in data collection. A program to strengthen these
two units is being set up, with assistance from consultants, under the Eleven-
th Irrigation Project (Loan 1787-TH). Consulting services for the proposed
project would include periodic visits by a monitoring specialist to provide
continuing support for RID's monitoring unit.  Evaluation of the project would
be carried out by the Office of Agricultural Economics in MOAC.
Environmental Effects
58.        The project would have a beneficial effect on the environment by
providing a year-round water supply in an area presently dependent on uncer-
tain rainfall. Its adverse effects would not be significant. The project
area is already flooded for paddy cultivation for about six months every year
so that double cropping would not greatly increase the farmers' exposure to
waterborne diseases or malaria. Drainage improvements would reduce flooding.
The canals would not be used for drinking water since the villagers rely on
wells and rainwater for domestic use. Schistosomiasis is not present in the
project area. A major emphasis in Thailand's ricebreeding program is to



- 20 -
produce disease- and pest-resistant varieties; therefore, chemicals to control
pests and diseases are used sparingly by farmers in the project area and no
significant environmental damage is expected.
Benefits and Risks
59.       The economic rate of return from the project is estimated to be 23%.
Including the sunk cost of canals and laterals, which serve the project area
and whiclh have already been constructed by RID, the economic rate of return
falls to 17%. No analysis has been carried out including the sunk costs of
dams since this project is only a minor beneficiary from these multipurpose
investments. The incremental annual production of rice at full development
would be about 80,000 tons, resulting in net annual foreign exchange earnings
of about $40 million in 1981 prices, before repayment on the Bank loan.
Approximately 6,800 farm families would benefit directly fron the project and
the average capital cost per farm family would be $12,500 in 1981 prices.
About 40% of these families would, in the absence of the project, remain in
absolute poverty; this figure would fall to 10% with the project. The project
would generate demand for an additional 3.0 million man-days of labor per
year, much of which would be met by the 2,000 landless agricultural households
in the project area. The project would therefore meet Government objectives
of improving the balance of payments and raising thie incomes of the poorest of
the rural population.
60.       Farmers who reside in the proposed project area operate an average
of about 4 ha inside the area and 1 ha on land elsewhere. The average per
capita incomne of farmers including off-farm income and that from livestock, is
about $200 p.a., which is lower than in the rest of the Malaiman area and this
is partly why it was decided to develop this area first. At present, there is
no double cropping and a single wet-season paddy crop is grown on 90% of the
area. Because water levels are uncontrolled, yields are low (about 1.2
tons/ha) despite the excellent soil quality. This explains why few farmers in
the project area are relatively well-off despite the large average farm size.
With the project, there would be double cropping of paddy for most of the area
and yields are expected to increase to 3.5 tons/ha in the wet season and to be
about 4.0 tons/ha in the dry season. Average production of paddy would
increase five-fold although total household income would only increase about
three-fold due to a reduction in income from other sources and the need to
hire more labor with the project. Approximately 90% of farmers in the project
area are owner operators of which 15% rent additional land; the remaining 10%
are tenant farmers. About 40% of farmers in the project area have income
below the absolute poverty level ($180 p.a.) and these farmers cultivate about
15% of the land in the area. Initially, benefits are expected to accrue
roughly in proportion to the area of land cultivated and thus the absolute
poor will receive 15% of the benefits. Similarly, farmers who are at present
below the relative poverty level are expected to receive 80-90% of the
benefits of the project.



- 21 -
61.       There are no unLsual risks associated with the project.  The risks
normally associated with irrigation projects have been accounted for in
estimating yields, cropping intensities and rates of development, and the
sensitivity analysis shows that the viability of the project is not unduly
sensitive to these assumptions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTIIORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special features of the Loan Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Annex III. A special condition of loan
effectiveness is the appointment of consultants to assist in design and
implementation of the Mae Klong irrigation works (Section 5.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1981



- 22 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                              REFFRENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED APEPCFH
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                                    -  MOST RECENT ESTIMIATF)
TOTAL              514.G
AGChIC LrTRAl.     (79,                                      MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOMF              MIDDLF ISCCHiF
(9rO  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b            ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERTCA & CARIPBFAN
NSF PER CAPITA (USF)                      100. 0       220.0       590.0                 1114.7                      1562.9
EMERGE YONSLnMPION PER CAPITA
(E.ILOGRAMIS ''F COAL EQUIVAILENT)      64.0         24 7. 0    327.0                   842.4                     1055.9
POPULATITG AND VITAL STATISTICS
POP1LATIOb, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         26.14         35. 7      44.5
URBAr FOPULARION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 1 2.5             13. 2      14. 1                   39.1                       63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEUA  2000 (MILLIONS)                            68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POFULATION IS REACHED                        2095
POPUL.ATUION DFNSITY
PER SQ. EN.                           51. 0         69.0       88. 0                  376.1                       28.1
PER SO. ElI. ACRICUILTeLAI IAND      204.0        251. 0      251.0                  2350.4                       81. 7
POP'.7ATION ACE LYTRI 'CRF (PFPCFNT)
0: S.                           44.7          46.2       43.4                    40.4                       41.4
IS-c. YRS.                             52.6          50.8       53.6                    56.2                       54.7
65  Ah'. AND ABO1                      2. 7          3. 0       3.0                     3.4                        3. 9
POPULATION :R.OLTH RATF (PERCFNT)
TU'AI:                                               3. 0       2. 7                    2.4                        2.7
URBAN                                  4.6           3.7        3.6                     4.1                        4.1
CRiLDL PRIRTfi RATE (PEP THOUSAND)      46.0          44.0       32.0                    28.7                       34.8
TPIDE DEATS RATE (Pl:R THOPSAND)        17.0          12.0        8.0                     7.9                        8.9
:;ROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..          3.2         2. 2                   1.9                        2. 5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOITSANDS)          ..         203. 0/c   644.0
L.UNRs iPERCENT OF MIARRIED WOMEN)    ..            27.4       40.0                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
I2NDX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
FFR CAPITA (1969-71*100)              92.0        o1.0       134.0                   i16.9                      106.9
'FR  APITA SUPPLY OF
I ,HIES (PERCENT OF
-EQUIREMENSTS)                     96.0         103.0       105.0/d                108.9                      107. 4
rITNS (GRAIIS PER DAY)            43.0          50.0       49.0/d                  60.3                       65.6
F :'HICH ANIMA). ASD PULSE         10. 0        15.0        14.0/d                 18. 8                      33.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          15. 0         9.0        6. 0                    5. 3                       8. 4
HEALTH
LIFE EXiCFCTANCY AT RIFTH (YFARS)    51. 0            57. 0      61. 0                   63.0                       63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOuSAND                                   .          8. 6. Ole    68.0                  52.8                       66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCFNT OF
POPULATION
TOTAI                                   ..            7. 0     22.0                    42.4                       65.9
URBAN                                   ..            .        49.0                    62.1                       8O.4
RURAL                                   ..            ..       12.0                    29.7                       44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL  (PERCENT
OF POP1LATIONR
TOTAL                                   ..          17.0       40.0                    52.8                       62.3
UP.BAN                                  ..          65.0       58.0                    71.1                       79.4
RURAL                                   *            8. 0      36. 0                   42.4                       29.6
?OP!SI.AT IN  PER PHYSICIAN           7800.0        8420.0    8169.0                   4120.1                     1849.2
PEOP!ULATIE(N PEE NURSINE PERSON      4900.0        3340.0    3542.0                   2213.6                     1227.5
POPULATIOL PFE HOSPITAL RED
TOTAI                               1351.4/f      880.0       816.0                   819.4                      480.3
:'RAN                                   ..         350.0
hR;A!                                   ..        1136.0
AUISSINS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         31.0       33.0                    28.8                         .
S01 s ISL
AVERACL SIZE OF H')ISEHOLD
TS1. A                                 5.5/f         5. 8       5.5
UP SAC                                 5. 3/F        5. 9       5. 5
6L hAi                                 5. 6/f        5. 8       5.5
ASLCACE (NiMhER OF FRACONS PEP ROOM
TOTAIL                                                          2.4
lhRAh                                   ..            ..        2.2
H:ES A                                  ..            ..        2.4                      .
Al   FR' , ELCETRICATY  (PERCENT
"F IVELLISNGC
TTAL                                     ..           ..         .
-R AI.                                              63. O-jg
R)RAI                                   ,,          13.0



- 23 -                                                         ANEX I
Page 2 of 5
IHAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEET
THAILAND                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTEr AVF, CFS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE--
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            KIDDLE lNCOME
1960  X     1970 /b ESTIMATE /           ASIA S PACIFIC    LATIN EFRICA & CARIBBFAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        81. 0      83.0                    98. 6                    99.7
MALE                  88.0         85.0      86.0                    99.2                    101.0
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      79.0                    97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0        17.0       27.0                   55.5                      34.4
KALE                  16.0         20.0      28.0                    60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                10.0         14.0      20.0                    49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    19.0           24.0      13. 0                   13. 7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.0        35.0       30.0                   34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           20.0        16.0       21.0                   28.5                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         79.0      84.0                    85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0         5.0        6. 4                   9. 0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        78.0      131.0                  118.9                     245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.3         7. 0      18. 0                  39.4                      84. 2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAN D POPULATION                  11.0        24.0         ..                      ..                     63.3
CINEtiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       1. 7                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13529.2       16658.8   20985.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    48.3        47.3       47.0                   36.8                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83. 7       79.9       77.0                   51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4. 4        6.0        8.0                   21.9                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51. 3        46.6      45.6                    39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  52. 7        49.3      48.6                    48.5                     48.9
FEZI4ALE                              49.8        43.9       42.6                   29.6                      14. 0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1. 1      1.0                     1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h         23.8/i    14.0/j
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEIIOLDS  50. 9Z       49. 7/i    42. 2...
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 2Lh         6. lji    7.6/1
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9Lh         15.9/i    19.11.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     159.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0                  192. 1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     115.0                     ..                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      110.0                  182.5                     332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW AESOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       15.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       34.0                   33.2
Not available
NHt applicable.
NOTES
Ja   The group averages for each indicator Are population-weighted arith-etic meanr. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Nest Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Covermnent program only; /d 1976; /e 1964-65; /f 1962; /R Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area; 1/  1962-63; /i 1968; /1 Prelioinary date for 1975-76; due to lack of dats on national basis, the
methodology for aggregating the available regional date overstates incomes of low income groups and under-
states incomes of higher income groups.  Thus, this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 24-AMNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DtFINTI.iNS OlF SOCIAL 1911D10TC5I
Note.:  Altboctgh the data ar  drans fro  soue            gnrlly ludged the nose  -ohc-iat ad  eiale  InIshould a'lso be not.d that they.y non be  str
-ainli   oparble orceune. If she lac  ci sandadise. d.filoictot  and concpts  .sed by dile.. e t           nte  incllcin             .b data.  Tha dater.,  e
eblas    seu  c  doee  rirs.7ngn tde,Indicate trtesd, an  cbhac...           certai  01rdiie .nesb ..e.cutre
noclo-cuinurel a.IolisI    nth   efrne  ru  cane thaergn   ar  populatio  wighsed a,rt shtie to.mean  for each tdic--o  and show  selfy eha. at
Isses hal i   chIuf ro   ingop   a                   _an    hatIndiostor .  Si.oe the  oerg  ofcutie   nn  the indiseora dlependsf on the eca iabiisy o
date and is no  uniform, ceuicen         1 sue .h.croise   nrls c crge   foed i          iao   o  tne    Teeaergsaeotyueu  inocparleaa    es
Ifcnindioai-acei-a --ncngshe  c-tn-rcsdre-f--c  gRoups.
hAit Nli   lnhuoanan.a.l                                          nOs ionperhhnsici,-rpa   iotiia  t   ugre  pesitting, psy-
Agrcucuel-  an  ac  c  eoiultra  aeaund ceoari   r  eoneti                    ?PouaIon nes-itr.i.  Person - PopuIlatto  dicided by.ntbae of pes.tticis
forcrps  pnsrn ,auhe  n      I t.cohe  gardIn        olitaic   97dsc.           nl   o  female grad-t.i nOnes, practicel nurse. sId easat sur.as.
Pon lnorHNos2ital Ned - totl, urban. sod eses1 - Pepoltton  (tetal
CN PlCail  icc     No  e   aianiae    scret   aktpie.cl                                  ra,ad rursil dinided by sheis repet tin  somber of bespial1 bade
cuIsnad by sass conr.oJ       e  oda   cI   aku leed57-79 ban ccl: 1990.                    -nsiable  Sn public ad priet  gens..    an .d epsotilisad hospital sadr-
1970, end  lhlSd-s.                                                                         hsbilint.ncnee    Nsttl   ten aieinnspeaasl.rfa
lld~~~~llgrlt,~~~~~,tR                        -_R,               ~~~~ bya   Iset one Pipeirian. .EtenbIisbh-st  providing prinsipa11Y  _natdsiel
and  igtce,  onrlen, nauraganand  ydr-, ncler ad gernenalolec      ceter        P.0 . ...a.eni ay sffed by aPhysician  iit by a eadita1 _aatstan.
cr0 tr  i   llgreso  cale~:laen   prIsica  1990   90   n   9inre   irie   n  1otbofri-atn    podno    n   rvd 
drn                                                                                           atdrng   fsdclfatiis.e   teisnlprsaaabnbeS
tate ftoclud   ONO  princps  genra  and~- speialed   piala  sd Preeid
POPULAT1m .0N   Vdl  TkITIiiceitels rloca  or rora  f_pinala                                                                                  ..d a tica n   aeriyctn
Toa   suaiTn. MTIIId-er(iicoP.u f.cl   ;lh    90   c   99                         uesioacrCeiclNd-Ttlsme   famsin  to or di.sibarg ps
daio.1PPjr        Md'l trothosptal  d rioldeiysenmbropae
iranPonanIo  cecetI cIicrl i -) cai f Jyban to 19o0sa,l pI1polac..PIon
dtfeas   einton   o   rbnara  ny  tec    onaa7liyofdsadi15
tonl ppaatit  y     tago andasadcel)clln  n   atI it7i racea1,-                  the bouPtehl.di f    dr btciyiclh  puepceIf
Prletic  e         Ieteo  cc  oraic .rae  con-Prlse cI crelnl   so-            uee obcireo   e  roe-cts . cc.sorue-
in tie iponnya   IthIoeso   rc    oor 9's_r bbll per  d5pia  ocs                 HerOUSneprro. :  l   rec   n   ualNcpG                            csetoa
n   P.c fo  iril icy roeas  hr   ie l     eninason  den ins 9ir
feiii~nacodig  cincm  hecl      io ps   iatypann   prcnto.                    ucculdpr
r.,                                                               A h ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocenc  hlscsid t   icrese wlling)-jssal  uha. aners-
tech onuIrn  ccse   sindceo   iu   iePnintooo   osin                                      onn  oa   nl ..g.  Plib  iect1ictc  in ybcig   oare   aspeoesag
ao   erluo   rnd   c  poecinPufte.0  ttl,ubn,ad                                        Pua  del  oorepciep
naloanruletoy- nI ta tnunpculsin   hssusyegts Ssic
nba birt  case i  equal t  cbs deth race  and a Ic the ae structre ce-  efCaflo
mainscteas.   hanoahndceyateiesu  c r                        at.deln   doajsedtrlmetcsc
the repaceen --celof ui                -- eccuc     ae  obey eac  geceta tin             hrimay-shoold-ttl,mi and female .             rs   os,    eadfsl
ofseenrelaesiteIrh stacy ly.  The hcas       -_,r p pulttcneea                  A    nnleco-l  aa   ntepiay    ela   ecnagso-eps
eaiae    ntehsi   ftepoete    hrceitcso  h   oua  on                                 poaysho-aepplslt;nomlyicueycide   gdNl
itte  er1rt   sdcs  aeofdcln   f  etilpsaei rpae-yardu ojscdfr  ifretleghto enayed                                                               _t1n   e
sie  a  bee  rhayn.                                                                Seoday9bol-tna,maean   eml-  opue  a   hee  scndr
Pon dla      Ito lesO I...educall   ilte oir rqtea    es   ou   er   fayoe  ptayisroi
Pe s.ha  -Md-ea   opla _n   r  u    .ar  Rd-11rfShtcanuI fpondegeea, nnalnl ortechertrinn   isart.ractie.tfer  opi
cotar55'uull   f1   o11yaso   g;crepndseouss  r   esel
Per e. lam aeriuicunl Ice-- Co pute.1n sone fr egrculcua. ladtsecuded
tOOif   h    hIanoairycim d-pecntofscodeyi-nceiaa  lsR                  hsin
Poeiaio ue  irocceIrrnocI     Ctcdce     Il-lAyoci,  ckn-5i11                        nloeccnce,idsnil   rohe   rgas  be   preeldp
,h. ec)   e   eie   b  yer  edDnr   n  ecenge   ini-sa   OOdNsyoandpreneieondrlctuine
aino; 190  1970.and197  daa:od-ece   a  c-piay   ednceanTtlseet   noldi
pepulhsi-n 190,090,   and P9N  at.   cdihs-it-yfohnc,1ti                                   Poict1111111!. 1'p
peissloiton; 1991  1970. and 117N dta.                             cars -seatIng lesta  eighperona  coo Pude  amblanes d bate,  and
Cros i hrouninteeinngoosir  fdagtesadennl   bari                                          nlisnpchnlt
he boma -erduto   ero c-depro.t rescak-pnIl   o-                                  tai  eciesIcrtosadcruair  -00npa   freenr  frtd
all sarcc  en-srcui ..nease      aoCu.,-                                                  generalrpublic pe 1honon  pouain   t ldscyinedT   e nr
P0   Ill SyNIIf                                                                             nonre   n   nyasoe  sgsrt                        fT   eswsi   fet
Child---  (0-11 vNe-reorCiceasin  ra  teuaP                                  d ..u.tidr      lon  shei nsas tha
sctionac19orag 1 r970        rcey  git  lit,  90  and 197fdate,                           ed echiy   unit.p.-t   f..  dr   .
P.faccaurlt R.c of calorIes (r-erde...f. y.r,r-ne..1 -dConfused fine
noy  n  nealc  chonsindering      ..  ec eetl- cbmrorsnPr. bo-dy   f n id-t..ag      rear- oco  -        fesa- e lobes force~l  acpercentaged of   sl    bod   oe
hpyosebold  lel;1971-i, .  1970.ad17 d         ata,                                      fiNshWiNg  sprecg   fttllbrfre   91   91adii   ae
qupl.irece  19c 0 for 0 all  counrie  estalise    y buprtd  irsn                          90  n   97   aa
alownc  o       g Ass re goI l protInfe   a  asd, 10  ram   of animaElan        Prciais Nate  eer-end - total.nve   ndfml   Patiase   er
pus   oss,ofsc    Igas  tsdb   oml  rti.Tee  tn-                                 snOen   oe   r   opue   sttl  ml,adfmleIbrfrea
atm   r  lsr  ha   heenO75gam   f  otlpr  et  ad11gamlo ese-asso  cnl.maeso   eml  pooace  cfu                                     h.cgeosstis
tenlprti  a   nnaesfo   o  wrd  pooe  b   u  i   i  Tid                                   190_97,ad  95daa    hseasiL'   eri  painese   efe_a
Asi  Pe    A--ry; 191-i  1970   - sed  -97  data.                                                                  21,,:
Pe br crn rh     enonerto aia-nd-le-  rs d-pp_Lofhfood de-                                age.-sen    1 stutRe- of   b th   pultion  an  long nine trend.     fees esti
-dt, -pj- ~ ~~~~~~~~~maesar ftntaIctel Icornet
riedfrm  nase  edplsc  n  raspe  dp;19199  171ad  97  dn.    foeomd le-edenc  taic 1- rint0                 oplco  sede.r 15so  5  ed.  anei
Chl 7(gs -lsertslt   aele  bca          l-una  deana  er resau  iN                     th  totaflaor   dres
an birh;r199.c1970andA199idana
inan    hirsldn  ae(e   head      nes   esao   yan   se   neya                       oeo   unrccr
of age per thosesod  itne births.                                 Es~~~~~~y--Rtimated' (hIn  ILt ..e..Ic      enl(llrrcnisldabnmd ss 
konssto  af laerInncet t rouononi-  ota.  sba, ndrorl     .           Abolte jPyneriy income-lede pis~ chtincom  les1beowwhc a.. m..
FOANumbeTRIofTpOplN   ttlI    -bn   o   erl   sbrasnhcaoses   ae                             ssdnoai eqaede   lu   seta  se-food    ...dtre                     c .is set
sates  upplylincloes snated  usfaneester  or utreate  hut  e...tmi..teIelsedabin
saerscheniacfrmentond   yeble,spega  ednaisr  wlsI05          Iitatdses ine           (P Poeth-nom   esi(     ntt-ssld    ea sad r 3s5-
ci  hei  rspeccs noeintns. ma   arasereapnli   Suelrelsie pnery  noss  ene  i  on-tid ofen rigdper cpits
fooai   rsadptcoardeeoehn   i  strsfnsbus    ayo              peneilcnefbennty    lhnlnlidrthdf.e.....rS.al, 
rasal- meber o  peole                                        d el,  rhei.and  ural)seind byscrIf
disposal  s percentges of teir respe tine pople5inoe.tacreta dc-                               tcen dic9 ad.Social Bat  Bri-nisbm        _
pees  ma  innudethe  cl -cc  gh-en  disposal, n 970h  -d e 1bos  drame.icevcdtlss  n   rlciealprm
of  amtecreaadssnenaerby  acrbrtesp Cs           - n  se d of-Itbr1
Pinp_ne  _ard      j siiarsslenna



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                                    Page 4 of S
ThAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATOKS
Population:        46,140    (mid-1979, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  U5594    (1979)
Amount
(million US$                    Average Annual Increase  (X)                     Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
at current                      (at constant 197S prices)                                (at current prices)
lndicator                        prices) 1979         l9bo-70    1970-7S         1975-80    1980-85    1985-90     1960       1970      1975       1980/e
National Accounts
Gross domestic products /a           27,804.5             8.4         6.4        8.9         b.5         7.2       100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0
Agriculture                         7,173.2             5.5        5.3         4.6         4.9         5.0        39.8       28.3      31.5       23.9
Industry                            7,875.1            11.5        7.8       1i.i          6.9        7.3         18.7      25.3       24.8      29.9
Services                           12,75t.2             9.0        7.1        1U.1         7.4        8.1         41.5      46.4       43.7      4b.2
Consumption /b                       21,767.4             7.3         7.0        8.3         5.U         6.4        85.7       78.7      79.3       7b.7
Gross investment /c                   7,744.3            15.8         3.8       11.8         5.3         5.2        15.7       2b.2      25.4       29.8
Export of goods and NFS               6,321.2            1u.5         3.6       11.0        12.0        10.0        17.4       16.7       19.1      23.5
Imports of aoods and NFS              8,028.4            13.9         3.7       11.4         b.0         6.5        18.9       21.5      23.7       30.1
Gross national savings                5,655.2             -          -           -           -           -          14.1       21.5      20.7       22.3
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(at current prices)
1960      1970       1975      1980/e
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports                                                                                                100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0
Primary                                                                                                           97.8      80.5       77.3      59.h
Manufacturers                                                                                                      2.2       19.5      22.7       40.2
Merchandise imports                                                                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
l'ood                                                                                                              9.6        5.4       4.4        3.4
Petroleum                                                                                                         1U.9        8.8      22.1       30.9
Machinery b equipment                                                                                             25.3      3b.1       35.8       24.1
Other                                                                                                             54.2      49.7       37.7      41.b
197i      1976       1977      1978       1979/e
Prices and Termb ot Trade
GDP deflator                                               lUO.u    103.4       108.6      114.7     123.7
Exchange rate                                               20.4       20.4      20.4       20.3      20.3
Export price index                                         100.0       89.5      86.3      1U7.4     130.2
Import price index                                         100.0    105.8       114.1    122.3       144.9
Terms of trade index                                       0l.u       h4.6      75.6       87.8      89.9
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1965      1970       1975      1979
Public Finance
Current revenue                                                  13.6       13.8      13.2       13.9
Current expenditure                                              10.6       12.6      11.7       12.4
Surplus (+) or deticit (-)                                       +3.0      +1.2       +1.5      +1.5
Capital expenditure                                               4.3        5.8       3.4        3.4
Foreign financing                                                 0.2        0.05      0.06       0.2
(at constant 1975 prices)
196U-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Other Indicators
GNP growth rate (X)                                       8.4         6.4        9.0         6.1         7.3
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                            5.2         3.4        6.9         3.8         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate                            -           -          -           -           -
ICOK                                                      2.8        4.0         2.9         4.1         3.5
harginal savings rate                                     0.29        0.23       0.21        0.37        0.34
Import elasticity                                         1.7         U.6        1.3         0.9         0.9
/a  At market prices.  For projected yearS, sectors are at factor cost.
/b  Total government and private consumption.
/c  Including changes in stock.
/d  Estimate.
March 12, 1981



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                                   Page 5 of 5
ThAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTE8NAL CAPITAL AND DEbT
Population:        46,140    (mid-1979, thousands)
uINP Per Capita:  US$594    (1979)
Actual                                            Pro jected
1970     1975     1976      1977     1978     1979/b      1980     1981      1982     1983     1984
balance of Payments
het exports of goods b services                        -299      -687     -465  -1,134    -1,191  -2,152    -2,683    -2,771   -2,677   -2,951  -2,747
Exports of goods & services                         1,171    2,99U   3,645    4,179       5,127   6,660       6,58t      7,992  10,122   11,996  14,273
Imports of goods 7 services                         1,470    3,678   4,11u   5,312        6,318    8,813      9,269    10,763  12,999   14,947  17,020
Net transfers                                             49       81       24        40        41        61        43         47       55       58        67
Current account balance                                -250      -606     -441  -1,U94    -1,149  -2,U92    -2,s40    -2,724  -2,822  -2,893  -2,680
Direct private investment                                 43       86       80       lt0        51        53        55         60       65       70        75
MLI loans (net)                                           32      111      198       205       644       992     2,385     2,864    2,657    2,823    2,705
Official                                               21        93      109      212        285      439        480       703      909    1,021    1,034
Private/a                                              10        18       89       -7        360      554     1,90j    2,161    1,748    1,802    1,671
OLher capital/a                                           93      350      242       792       490    1,039        200       200       200      2003     Z0
Mhange in reserves                                        82       52      -79        -9       -36         8         0      -400     -100      -200     -300
International reserves                                  9U6   1,007   2,113   2,208          2,558   3,102      3,026      3,426    3,526    3,726   4,026
Reserves as months of imports                              7        7         6        5         5         4         4          4        3        3         3
,ross Disbursements
Official grants                                            -        -         -        -         -         -
Gross disbursements ot public hLT loans                   55      150      242       268       743    1,124
Concessional                                            11       43       52       82        153      215
Bilateral                                            11       40        45       54         86      151
IDA                                                   -         3        7        9          5        4
Other multilateral                                    -         0        0       19         62       60
Nonconcessional                                        44       107      189      186        590      909
Official export credits                               7         -        -       84         45      114
IlRD                                                 19       41        43       65       103       139
other multilateral                                    2       37        46       33         46       36
Private                                              17       29       100        5       396       620
Gross disbursemunta  ot other loans                      143      386      366       349       571      799
Total gross disbursements                                198      536      608      618      1,314    1,923
sternal Debt
Public debt outstanding and disbursed                   322       616      822    1,06b      1,790   2,702
Official                                              285       548      b6b      917     1,270    1,638
IBRD                                                159      270       298      346       435       556
IDA                                                   -        4        11       19         25       28
Other                                               126      274       357      552       811    1,054
Private                                                 37       68      156      150        520   1,064
Other debt outstanding and disbursed                     382      730      7b5       880       939   1,243
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     704    1,346    1,607    1,948      2,729    3,945
Undisbursed debt                                         161      666      841    1,421      1,862    2,471
Total debt (includin, undisbursed)                       865   2,012   2,448    3,369        4,591    6,416
Debt Service
Public debt service payments                              39       73       88       122       195      278
Interest on public debt                                16        34       44       58         97      146
Payments as percentage of exports                     3.3       2.4      2.4      2.9        3.8      4.2
other debt service payments                              123      304      311      320        614      655
Total debt service payments                              162      377      399      442        809      933
Average interest rate on new public loans (X)    6.8              7.5      7.8       7.0       6.7       7.0
Official                                              6.8       7.4      7.7      6.2        5.3      5.3
Private                                               6.0       8.5      8.1      8.2        8.8      9.0
Average maturity of new public loans (years)            18.9    22.9      17.4      14.8      17.3     16.8
Official                                             19.4    24.2       20.7     19.3       22.3     22.6
Private                                              11.2       7.0      7.3      8.3        9.4      9.8
a.k CroupFExposure (1)
IBKD) DODtotal DOD                                     22.6    20.1       18.5     17.8       15.9     14.1
I8KD disbursements/total gross disbursements             9.5      7.7      7.1     10.9        8.4      7.4
18KD debt service/total debt service                   11.1       8.5      9.1     10.0        6.8      7.3
IDA DOD/total DOD                                          -      0.3      0.7       1.0       0.9      0.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements                -      0.5      1.1       1.5       0.4      0.2
IDa debt service/total debt service                        -      0.0      0.0      O.0        0.0      0.0
as Z of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1979)
Terms Structure
Maturity structure of public debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                 28.7
principal due within 10 years                                                61.2
Cotorest structure of public debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                  4.5
/a  Due to change in classification projected data for 'Private NIT Loans  include mDst of the category  "Other capital."
/b Estisate.
.arch 12, 1981



- 27 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                           Purpose        Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Thirty loans and one credit fully disbursed                          601.44    5.49       -
369    1973   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   19.50   0.22
461    1974   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation         -    7.00   0.06
992    1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                              Industry       11.70       -   0.08
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    95.00         -  53.41
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -   6.53
1199T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Livestock       5.00(TW)   -   1.75
1243   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Rubber         50.00        -  14.56
1253   1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            26.00        -   3.14
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education      31.00        -  12.67
1327   1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                              Industry       25.00       -   0.74
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture   28.00         -  11.36
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    55.00         -  25.83
1485   1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           50.00       -  11.29
1492   1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                              Industry        4.80       -   0.61
767    1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Population         -   33.10/b28.32
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Transport.   110.00         -  38.26
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority         Rural Elect.  25.00         -  13.24
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Housing         8.60        -   6.74
1620   1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom            90.00        -  90.00
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                      Irrigation    17.50         -  16.39
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Urban          16.00        -  13.41
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand                Railways       16.70        -  11.82
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power           80.00       -  74.12
913    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Education          -   35.00  33.25
929    1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Agriculture        -   25.00  23.86
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                      Ag. Extension 40.00         -  38.66
1770   1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand                   Power          80.00        -  63.26
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of                   Natural Gas
Thailand                                Pipeline   107.00/d       - 107.00



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                     Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Irrigation          80.00    -          75.83
1816     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Credit           19.00    -          18.87
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power                72.00    -         55.51
1863     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                    Water Supply         40.00    -         40.00
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Housing             29.00    -          29.00
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity
Authority                    Power                75.00    -         75.00
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand              Inland Waterways   53.00    -           53.00
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports                47.00    -          47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research         30.00    -          30.00
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand             Potash Engineering  8.90    -             8.90
1956     1981   Kingdom of Thailand              Industry            30.00    -          30.00
Total                                                         2,078.64  125.09  1,163.69
of which has been repaid                                      253.21    1.55
Total now outstanding                                         1,825.43  123.54
Amount sold /c                        68.63
of which has been repaid           48.90                       19.73
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,805.70  123.54
Total undisbursed                                             1,077.98   85.71
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of April 30, 1981.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
7v Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                    -    0.39      0.39
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials               28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                      -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers           4.85    0.34       5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
1981     Co. Ltd.                 tion Materials          63.00    4.00      67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                           100.98    9.61    110.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          49.21    2.56      51.77
Net held by the Corporation                        35.77    7.05      42.82
Total undisbursed                                  32.91        -     32.91



- 30 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of April 30, 1981)
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components have been completed, about 30 months behind
schedule because of delays in the Teacher Training Colleges component. Good
progress was made in the pedagogical development of project components. The
Government has been asked to make arrangements for drafting a project
completion report. Outstanding amounts will be cancelled shortly.
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Satisfactory
progress is being made on institutions included in phase one which are
scheduled to be constructed and equipped by end-1981. For this phase, sites
have been selected and acquired. Sketch plans and equipment lists are
completed. Phases two and three will be completed mid-1982 and mid-1983,
respectively. Project staff has been appointed or designated. Curricula are
being developed. Technical assistance agencies, except that for the Center of
Educational Administrators, have been contracted and staff training programs
are conducted as scheduled. The studies under the project are progressing
satisfactorily.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 31 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project: $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976: Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project has been completed except for connection of some new
telephone lines expected during the first half of 1981. About $3.8 million
remains to be disbursed against retention payments and against items missing
from initial supplies or for replacement of faulty items.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delav in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
The financial condition of the borrower continues to be satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; S16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.
Loan No. 1889  Inland Waterwavs and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Preconstruction activities are underway with consultant selection
ongoing. Prequalification of contractors for the river works has been
completed and bid documents issued.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 lillion Loan of
December 19, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective due to delays
in obtaining Ministry of Finance approval of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the Port Authority of Thailand.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Credit No. 461  Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project:  $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date:  October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
The project has been completed and is expected to be fully disbursed
shortly.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in on-farm works. Construction work on the
diversion dam is complete and works on the distribution systems are proceeding
well. All studies financed under the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Rehabilitation and on-farm development works have been completed on
about 35,000 ha, which is in accordance with the appraisal estimate. Equip-
ment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. A monitoring system is being
set up and the project is now served by the National Agricultural Extension
Project.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25,1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Construction has started on main and secondary canals and on-farm
development in the Lam Pao service area and the first of two diversion dams
in the Lam Takhong project area has been completed. Progress to date has
been slow due to a delay in equipment procurement and to shortages of cement
and fuel in 1980.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants have been appointed for both the Pattani and Mae Klong
components and have begun work. Force account operations began on both
components in early 1980 and extension of the main canal for Mae Klong is
being carried out by contract. Delays in completing designs and procuring
equipment mean that only limited progress is expected to be made during 1981.



- 33 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Construction is virtually complete on about 250 km of village roads
and is under way on about 850 kmi, contracts for the remaining 200 km are
expected to be awarded in mid-1981. The road maintenance program is being
carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality works using equipment
procured under the project. The village water supply component, after
initial delays in equipment procurement, has now provided about 1,660
freshwater wells. The upland crop improvement and land settlement components
are under implementation and progressing well. The village electrification
component has been completed with electrification of about 475 villages.
The agricultural extension component was completed in 1978.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the seed
production and pasture development programs progressing particularly well.
A revised final procurement plan is awaited together with a probable request
from government for an extension of the Closing Date by a few months. Staff
morale has improved as a result of a recent decision to absorb all project
staff into regular posts within the Livestock Department on completion of
the project.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation has
improved substantially. The rubber replanting program has nearly reached
the target of 50,000 hectares per annum.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The staffing situation has improved considerably in recent months,
with 66 out of 67 subject matter specialist posts and 2,048 (87%) out 2,344
extension agent posts filled by late 1980. Civil works are now progressing
satisfactorily and construction should be completed in 1981. Cost over-runs
on civil works is now around 100% of appraisal estimates. In-service



- 34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
training, particularly of subject matter specialists, needs stregthening as
does communication with research staff. The training and visit system is
now well understood at all levels, but routine administrative and special
assignments continue to interfere with the smooth running of the system.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a good start with initial concen-
tration on seven provinces. Civil works have been tendered and evaluated
for two provinces and construction should commence shortly. The first batch
of incremental staff (13 subject matter specialists and 261 extension agents)
have been appointed. Disbursements are in line with appraisal estimates.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date. The
highland agriculture and social component has experienced greater difficulties
than the other components and will require concerted action to achieve a
satisfactory level of implementation. The project still can be completed on
schedule if the required action is taken. Difficulties requiring resolution
relate particularly to management, staffing, engineering and budgeting. IDA
staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
is expected to improve during the current fiscal year. The EEC has agreed
to provide a grant of $3.5 million to finance the cooperative training
program; this decision was made after the Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
The loan became effective on March 20, 1981. Progress is being
made in appointing project staff, manning the project coordinating unit, and
appointing consultants.



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is nearly completed.
Construction for the resettlement component is about 75% complete.
Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates. Installation
of electrical and mechanical equipment is underway but not quite satisfactory
because of the delayed delivery of equipment by the manufacturers.
Loan No. 1527 Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
As of end 1980, work has been started on 2,107 villages, out of
which 1,091 villages have already been electrified. Disbursements are
slightly behind schedule due to initial delays in procurement.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979, Effective Date:  May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on May 23, 1980. The project is about
15% complete about 3-1/2 months behind schedule because of poor soil
condition. Foundation piling and other field works are now proceeding
satisfactorily, and project execution is expected to catch up with the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective pending finalization
of the parallel financing agreement between PEA and the Saudi Fund.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed on
time and within the cost estimate.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1852  Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation commenced on schedule but is about fourteen
months behind schedule because of difficulties encountered with the largest
contract. The National Housing Authority (NHA) is reviewing ways to resolve
these problems. Project completion is expected to be about six months behind
schedule. Good progress, however, has been made on the various policy
concepts on which the project is based, and NHA's financial management has
been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project's overall progress has been slower than expected due
to lack of progress on institutional development of the executing agency
(OCMRT). Tangible project progress to date has been principally (a) the
successful introduction of 100 Km of bus lanes; (b) introduction of a
computer controlled traffic signal system in central Bangkok; and (c) a
variety of minor civil works.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactory.
Efforts have also been initiated to hire consultants for a housing finance
study, a financial management study of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administra-
tion and project preparation and municipal financial management studies in
regional cities.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Closing Date: April 3, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective pending signature of
the consultants contract.



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date:  September 4, 1974:  Original Closing Date:
September 3,1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continues to be good. The loan is fully committed and almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected because
of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. However, the loan is now
fully committed and disbursements are satisfactory.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastruc-
ture has progressed further with 95% of the civil works completed. An
earlier dispute between IEAT and the contractors prevented the remaining 5%
from being completed sooner; this dispute has been resolved, and the estate-s
full development is scheduled for mid-1981. External infrastructure has
been lagging, especially in respect of the Lat Krabang-Nong Chok access
road. Delays in construction and design changes have increased cost
estimates for the access road to B 99 million in 1980, up from an initial
estimate of B 33 million in 1977. The Government had agreed to guarantee
the construction of the access road, and an understanding has been reached
that the access road will be constructed with funds advanced by Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration (BMA) to be subsequently reimbursed from next
year-s Budget Bureau allocation.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Project implementation and disbursement status have improved con-
siderably over the past six months; and project implementation is now 12 to
18 months behind the appraisal schedule. One of the 10 national level
training facilities has been constructed, eight are under construction and
the contract award for the tenth has been approved. Of the 430 rural health
facilities, 148 have been completed and 191 are under construction. Although
delays have occurred in procurement of equipment and furniture, these prob-
lems are now being resolved. Procurement of the remaining vehicles and
audio-visual equipment, and of the final allotment of injectable contracep-
tive is well advanced. Most training, information/education/communication
and population-related research and evaluation activities are on schedule
and many will be completed on schedule. The Innovative Village Nutrition
Activity has been successfully launched and several other possible uses of
Innovative Activities funds are under consideration by the Ministry.



- 39 -                       ANNEX III
THAILAND
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Results
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  One Year
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Royal Irrigation Department
with assistance from
consultants.
(c) First Bank mission to consider the Project: November 1979.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1980.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: May 1981.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government has agreed that:
(i) RID will review its proposals with respect to the RID
Organization and Administration Study with the Bank by
September 30, 1981; RID will prepare a plan of action for
review with the Bank by January 31, 1982; and the Government
will implement that plan of action in a timely manner after
consultation with the Bank (para. 43);
(ii) RID will impose and collect adequate O&M fees and cost
recovery charges established in agreement with the Bank
(para. 53);
(iii) the duties of the Project Director and Project Manager for
Loan 1787-TH will be extended to cover the proposed project
and a project engineer will be appointed (para. 54); and
(iv) BAAC will be adequately staffed and funded to meet the credit
requirements of project farmers (para. 56).
(b) An additional condition of effectiveness is the appointment of
consultants to assist in design and implementation of the Mae Klong
irrigation works (para. 44).






IBRD 14432R
-" r._!    i LAO PEOPLE'S         .Oi'U 'UC,                                                 TO !SIAHACBURi                                 FEBRURY 1981
DEMOCRATIC                                           THONG
t,           ~~~REPUBLIC
TALND
DE1 MOCRATI
P~~  S        \ ~KAMPUCHIE
KANCHAN   S          N   O       HUNAAN
\ 9 v sLAWIA   .       9  .            ' - .         t.                         - '9~~~~~~~~~~~~~..IE
140                                            A- AMPHAENGSAEN                                                                                             1400
IRRIGATION PROJECT R
SAM PK  AMUSAHO
-SeCandary Dra ns                                                                                                                               1303|
IRRIGATIO       PROJECT                           ,    a    .,M                                             ¢           _-
;Project Area tlk1r.>
Moin Canal
Q- Drainage Canals    g 'i
Lateral Canals                                                                        U
--  Maiary roads                                                                         N XA  
=------- Secondory roads
RailwCoal
RIvers Canal
Internoational boundaries                                                                   UANAA
DraInag~~~.7e canals t
Ki LOMETERE                            r   _I              //~0fWv
4\~~~~~~~~~~~,deie' Oli M.v            .Jvinre r
KHAOPCABURi                                   t       nw   #e d         .
0i9030r                                                      I        4PRANUR  areO00∞-n



