DO-Mint or
The World Bank
FM OMCIL USE OY
PI IV  ?3   -8
M*wt N. P-3671-E
RowrAJDr   _  r
OF-q= TEEW
PRESD  OF TEE
INTEZCOAL DAM FMOR          R      AND DEVN1OTIT
TO I= mECDTiVE DIIIRE
EcOPseD LOA
MM AN   AM xvIVT TO US$95.0 1UaIM
saN AND ATH  IV~ DEV  WrEoRIT
UTM H GUAWMUE
F THEZ
RCPUBLI OF P  A
FPR TM
NN   DRSR  PO    P:r T
November 15, 1983
I bcimt b a icbd dIb1bWh. *j -w be wl by ryShe pe.ff_m_ree
dlur 8Eeh dhEt. lb mdEWW MM   l      be dIisd Ib  WuM No  m             I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -       Kenya Shilling (KSh)
XSh 1.00            -       USS0.08 a/
US$1.00                     KSh 13.00
AB3IEVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
I kV .....*   kilovolt        -   1,000 volts
I      ..wo..   kilowatt     -   1,000 watts
1 kWh ....... kilowatt ..u    -   1,000 watt bhurs
1 GWh ..... gigawatt hour     -   1,000.000 kilowatt hours
I W .   megawatt              -   1,000 kilowatts
I a         meter             -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 km ...... kilometer         -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 sq km .. . square kilometer  -   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 ha  o..... bectare          -   2.47 acres (ac)
APDB            African Developmet Bank
CMA.            Caa i ternational Development Agency
EAC             East African Community
EEC             Europeam Economic Community
KPC             Kenya Power Company, Limited
P&L   R         Kenya Power and Lighting Company, Limited
MOERD           Ninistry of Energy and Regional Development
MOP             Mini try of Finance and Planning
SIDA            Swedish Iternatioal Developmt Authority
mRDC            The Tana River Developmt Company, Limited
TARDA           The Ta   and Athi Rivers Development Authority
FISCAL TEAK
Government: July 1 - June 30
TARDA     :  anuary 1 - December 31
a/ Since December 1982, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR = KSh 14.06. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated
since that time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 13.00 has been used in
evaluating this project.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
RENYA
KIAMBERE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority (TARDA).
Guarantor:               Republic of Kenya.
Amount:                  US$95.0 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms.                  Amortization in 20 years, including 5 years' of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
TARDA to bear foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
ProJoct Description:    The main objective of the project is to assure a
firm source of reliable electricity generating
capacity to meet the growth in demand which is
expected by 1987 to exceed the capabilities of
existing generating facilities. The project would
develop indigenous renewable energy resources and
create new job opportunities, particularly during
the construction period, and reduce the country's
heavy dependeaice on imported oil.
The main project components are: (i) a rock and
earthfil  dam (approximately 100 a high with a
crest length of about one km), a saddle dam with a
concrete-lined spillway, and two diversion tunnels;
(ii) an intake, a concrete and steel-lined shaft
and a tunnel to connect the reservoir to an
underground powerhouse, and a reinforced concrete
surge shaft near the downstream end of the tunnel;
(iii) an underground powerhouse with two 70 KW
vertical turbines, and a shart tailrace tunnel;
(iv) a 220-kV switchyard; (v) 80 km of 220-kV
transmission lines to connect the powerhouse to the
existing grid; and (vi) consultants' service for
detailed design and construction supervision,
project team leader, and a panel of experts to
advise on civil works.
| Th docnnfnt Ims a stited dstbution and nmy be used by recpients only in the perfcmvane of
te offi dutes Its contents may not othew  be disdod wihout World Ba authortio



S            ~~~- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreign     Total
=-- USS millions
Preliminary Works                                 14.3       1.4       15 7
Dams                                              36.9      25.6       62.5
Tunnels                                           16.3      17.4      33.7
Powerhouse and access                             16.4      17.4      33.8
Electrical/lechanical Works                       14.5      23.9      38.4
Transmission Line                                  0.7       3.9       4.6
Engineering Consultants                            5.6      23.9a/    29.5
Panel of Experts and
Project Team Leader                              0.4        1.2b/     1.6
Miscellaneous                                      3.3        -         3.3
Base Cost (April 3, 1983 prices)      108.4      114.7     223.1
Contingencies:
Physical                                       19.9      13.7      33.6
Price                                         35.9       19.2      55.1
Total Project Cost c/                 164.8      147.6     311.8
Interest During Construction-
Bank Financed                                   -        27.3      27.3
Other Sources                                  0.6       13.9      14.5
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                                   0.2       0.2
Total Financing Required              164.8      189.0     353.8
a/ Including the Project Preparation Facility advance of US$0.75 million
(P-68-KE), approved in October, 1983.
bf Including the Project Preparation Facility advance of US$0.25 million
(P-60-KE). approved in November, 1982.
cf Including taxes and duties of about US$46.2 million equivalent



- iii -
Financing Plan:
---US$ Million Equivalent--       X of Total
Sources a/                    Local      Foreign      Total     Financing
IBRD                         39.6        55.4        95.0        27
AfDB                          -          21.7        21.7          6
-          Saudi Fund for Development   -            11.5       11.5          3
Yugoslav Bank for Inter-
national Economic
Cooperation                  5.7         5.7        11.4         3
Other Cofinanciers b/        25.2         94.7      119.9        34
Government of Kenya          46.2         -          46.2         13
TARDA                  w     48.1         -          48.1        14
Total Project
Financial Requirements      164.8       189.0       353.8       100
Estimated Disbursements:        Bank FY   FY84   FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89
Annual                               12.0   25.0   20.0   17.0   15.0    6.0
Cumulative                           12.0   37.0   57.0   74.0   89.0   95.0
Economic Rate of Return:       About 10.0%
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 4336-KE, Date:  November 15, 1983
IBRD 17029
a/ Cofinanciers specifically listed below will provide financing for the dam
contract. The Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation will also
provide financing for other contracts under the project.
b/ Tenders have been received from many reputable firms from several countries,
and, since the sources of external financing and their terms and conditions are
being taken into account in the bid evaluation, a sound financing plan is
assured. The award of contracts is expected to take place after Board
Presentation.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE TANA AND ATHI RIVERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE KIAMBERE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
1.        I submi-t the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority (TARDA), with the
guarantee of the Republic of Kenya, for the equivalent of US$95 million to
help finance a hydroelectric power project at Kiambere. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, includigg five years' grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. About US$164.5 million would be provided by other
external sources, mostly at concessionary terms.1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4689-KE) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary of social and economic
data is in Annex I.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Structural Problems
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then, the country has experienced remarkable continuity in
both political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been
to promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment,
encouragement of both snmallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of
accelerated industrialization, by providing incentives for private,
including foreign, investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development
model can be characterized as 'mixed, in the sense that it incorporates a
diversity of organizational forms and incentives and combines private
enterprise with a significant amount of Government participation and
guidance.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remark-
able growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing
grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of
agriculture was stimulated by redistribution of large estates to
smallholders, rapid diffusion of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder
output. Growth of manufacturing was made possible wvry largely by the
1/ Tenders have been received from many reputable firms from several
countries, and, since the sources of external financing and their terms
and conditions are being taken into account in the bid evaluation, a
sound financing plan is assured. The award of contracts is expected to
take place after Board Presentation.



- 2 -
expansion of domestic demand due to rising agricultural incomes, while
investment for domestic productic was being encouraged by high levels of
protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign investment, and active
Government promotion of and participation in manufacturing ventures.
5.        Following this period of rapid growth, the rate of growth of per
capita income declined substantially after 1974. Kenya remains a poor
country, still heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP
per capita in 1981 was USS430. Agriculture accounted for more than a third
of GDP and about two-thirds of exports (other than refined petroleum pro-
ducts) in 1978-81. Since the growth of the industrial sector has been
largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the prin-
cipal source of income in the rural areas where over 80X of the population
live and%work. Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and under-
employment. About one-fourth of the population is estimated to have
incomes placing them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        A fundamental problem Kenya faces is posed by the rapid growth
rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9X per
year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically, partly
the result of Kenya's past success in raising health and general living
standards, which has resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has
probably resulted in an increase in the country's already high fertility
rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to
mount on Kenya's limited arable land. Of the country's total land area of
about 575,000 sq km, about 520,000 sq km are categorized as potentially
productive. However, on the basis of annual rainfall and fertility, only
9% can be regarded as high potential land, with 9X of medium potential and
82% low potential arid- and semi-arid areas. Of the less than 20X of land
area which has good arable potential, much is now densely settled.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.
First, there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramati-
cally or ways are found to increase the rate at which income earning oppor-
tunities in agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into
urban areas. Even if the non-agricultural sector were to grow very
rapidly, it probably would be unable to absorb all the new urban labor
force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemployment and
underemployment.  Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already been
created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income and alleviate
poverty will be impeded by the relative lack of access to land and
education for the children of the poorest section of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past was based largely on investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent, manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected markets of
the former East African Community (EAC). The scope for further
industrialization along these lines is limited, as most of the easy



- 3 -
import-substitution possibilities have been exhausted and the EAC
preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished. The past pattern of
industrialization has left the sector increasingly dependent on imported
raw materials, components and spare parts, and therefore it is vulnerable
in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be
necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and
increased production for export.
10.       A third major problem has been the slow growth in agricultural
output, which averaged only about 2.4Z per year over 1972-79, but improved
slightly to 3.1Z p.a. over 1980-82. This reflects generally less favorable
climatic conditions, a weakening of the structural factors fueling earlier
growth and problems of policy and institutional support. The latter, which
has been one of the most serious impediments to sectoral performance,
includes inconsistencies in pricing policy and inadequacies in marketing
and input supply. In addition, the concentration of land holdings,
insecure land tenure issues and problems in planni:ag and execution of
agricultural projects and programs are inhibiting agricultural growth.
Measures to deal with these problems are essential to revitalize the
agricultural sector.
11.       Other problems are the slow growth and lack of diversification of
exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP, and the
rising cost of oil imports which has had an adverse effect on the balance
of payments. From 1964-74, the volume of exports expanded at an average
annual rate of 4.6X, but over the past five years, export volume has grown
more slowly. In 1982, export volume was 7% below the 1978 level. To some
extent, this is a reflection of production problems in agriculture and
industry, as well as declining demand for petroleum products, but it is
also an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward
export-oriented activities.
Economic Performance 1974-82
12.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulner-
able to swings in the country's international terms of trade. The GDP
growth rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in
petroleum and other import prices required restrictive economic policies,
accelerated rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the -coffee boom" following
frost damage in Brazil worked its way through the economy, but began to
decelerate in mid-1977 with the rapid decline in coffee prices.
13.       During 1978-82, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as
a result of petroleum price increases and declining coffee prices. The
effects of these external shocks on the balance of payments, and incomes,
were compounded by poor weather affecting coffee and maize production. As
a result, GDP growth slowed to 3.2% in 1980, recovered somewhat in 1981 to
4.8% and slowed down again in 1982 to 3.3%. The trade deficit rose sharply
in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance
on current account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of US$60
million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while reserves
fell by US$200 million. To prevent further depletion of the country's
foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program of import



- 4 -
restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decllne in imports and
reductions in Kenya's trade gap and current account deficit in 1979. This,
together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a recuperation of
about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The improvement
in the balance of payments proved to be short-lived. The increase in
petroleum prices, combined with the need for additional food imports,
resulted in a 39% rise in the value of imports In 1980. While exports rose
by 22%, this was not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account
deficit to almost US$900 million and, despite increased external borrowing,
a decline of US$195 million in foreign exchange reserves.  However, due to
improved agricultural output and the Government's restrictive import
policy, the value of imports declined by 16% in 1981. Although the current
account deficit declined by 17% in 1981, foreign exchange reserves had to
be drawn down by US$134 million due to a slowdown in official aid flows.
In 1982, the extraordinary conditions which prevailed during the second
half of the year, together with restrictive credit policy, led to a sharp
contraction in imports of about 14% in volume. The current account deficit
has narrowed to US$511 million; however, the foreign exchange reserve
position remained under considerable pressure throughout 1982.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan was on
restoring growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviat-
ing poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision
of social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan
correctly identified the key problems that Kenya faced and set forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solutions.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognized the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes
proposed in the Plan increased the access to land through legalizing
subdivision of large farms in high potential areas. The Plan also proposed
that marketing and pricing polices pay closer attention to the structure of
domestic and international prices and that the marketing system be made
more competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers. Research and
extension services were to be more closely linked to the needs of small
farmers, and ways of encouraging land use and intensification and labor
absorption were to be reviewed.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy was to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency
and export diversification. This involved further rationalization of
tariffs and elimination of quantitative restrictions on Imports over a
five-year period. This policy required considerable external balance of
payments support. The Plan proposed no fundamental change in Kenfa's
traditionally liberal policy on foreign investment with the important
exception that review and approval of projects for which special
concessions or Government's participation were being sought would rely more
on economic criteria and be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the
whole, the Plan called for a more limited role for Government in terms of
direct participation and intervention.



- 5 -
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledged the heavy burden placed on the
economy by rapid population growth and the provision of basic needs. In
view of this, the Government made family planning a matter of high
priority. The emphasis of government action was to be on building up
infrastructure and training personnel for delivery of family planning
services. The Government has undertaken an expanded information and
education camoaign.  Although Kenya is doing more to promote family
planning than most other African countries, the rate of population growth
is jprojected tb remain exjremely high (3.9) because of strong cultural and
traditionlal fattors, and even greater efforts will be required to bring
about a significant decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financia  and budgetary constraints,
which had not been anticipated when the Plax- was written, implementation of
the Fourth Plan was slow. As a result, the tGovernment had to reassess the
Plan targets and Introduced two revised shortrun economic programs
(incorporated in Sessional Papers of 1980 and 1982), while maintaining the
overall development strategy set out in the original Plan document. The
Sessional Papers identify and deal with Kenya's short- and medium-term
problems in a frank and consistent manner. They offer, among other things,
a revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country's
urgent financial prcblems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance
of payments pressures.
Structural Adjustment and Economic Prospects
19.       The Government was determined to carry out the strategy outlined
in the Plan despite adverse international and domestic circumstances and
administrative constraints. In order to do so, it devised and is executing
a program of structural adjustment.
20.       The Government's first program, which was supported by the Bank
Group and an EEC Special Action Credit, involved: (a) revising the
Government's investment program to make it more consistent with the
country's new economic circumstances; (b) ensuring the country's credit-
worthiness by improving external debt management and introducing better
planning and control of external borrowing; (c) beginning the process of
rationalization of the trade regime; (d) improving the incentives for
exports and ensuring that exports are competitive; and fe) reviewing and
revising interest rate policy to ensure that it is consistent with develop-
ment objectives. The program was, on the whole, carried out satisfac-
torily. While the general thrust of the program was maintained, attempts
to execute the policy measures revealed some weaknesses in planning and
administration that need to be remedied.
21.       A Second Structural Adjustment Program was approved by the Bank
Group on July 1, 1982. In addition to supporting continued rationalization
of the system of industrial protection and improvement of incentives for
exports, it includes measures aimed at revital'zing the agricultural
sector, increasing domestic supplies of energy, encouraging energy
conservation and introducing policy initiatives in population.



22.       In line with the agricultural development objectives and the
policy principles set out by the second structural adjustment program,
producer prices for major food crops have been increased substantially in
recent years. The Government is currently undertaking a full-scale review
of the marketing system to determine the optimal division of responsibili-
ties between the public and private sectors. It is studying measures to
accelerate the process of regularization of de facto subdivision of large
farms so as to realize the maximum output potential of the high quality
agricultural land. The government is also planning to address systemati-
cally the entire set of land-related issues, including land tenure, optimal
patterns of land use and conservation of soil, water and forest resources.
23.       In the industrial sector the quantitative import restrictions are
gradually being eliminated and replaced by equivalent tariffs. This will
be followed by a period during which tariffs will be reduced and made more
uniform. Adoption of a more moderate and uniform tariff structure will be
coupled with appropriate levels of export compensation for industrial
exports. To reduce the bias against agriculture, compensating adjustments
have been made in the exchange rate. Further such actions will be required
to ease problems of industrial transition and to provide incentives for
agriculture and exports. The Government is now in the process of preparing
guidelines for fiscal and other support for industrial investments and
exports and has already introduced measures to rationalize the selection of
public sector investments.
24.       The Bank Group conducts frequent review missions to discuss pro-
gress in achieving the release of the second tranche (US$50.0 million) of
the Second Structural Adjustment Program. Although significant progress
has been made in implementing most aspects of the policy reforms, there has
been some delay in taking appropriate policy decisions on restructuring
grain marketing and in preparing a sound public investment program. In
addition, the broad review of institutional support to exporters and the
development of a program for export promotion have not progressed to the
extent expected, although a number of positive policy measures to improve
export performance have been taken and implemented.
25.       While the structural adjustment program should have a favorable
impact on the balance of payments over the longer term, the remaining
years of the 1980's are going to be difficult ones for Kenyan policymakers
and for the Kenyan economy. The country's international terms of trade are
likely to continue to deteriorate at least until the second half of the
1980s.  In addition, external debt service obligations will be high because
of borrowing associated with the large current account deficits of the past
several years. At the same time, the Government's fiscal operations are
likely to be subjected to extreme pressure because of slower growing
revenues and demands for increased expenditures. It is within this context
that critical policy decisions must be made involving a fundamental
restructuring of the pattern of development.
26.       Given the slow recovery of the world economy and unfavorable
export prospects, it will be difficult to maintain positive growth of GDP
per capita through 1984. However, growth prospects appear somewhat better
from about 1985 onward provided the Government's structural adjustment



- 7 -
program is continued and there is adequate external assistance to enable
its successful implementation. The country's terms of trade sho"ild alse)
stabilize, the growth of external debt should decelerate, and current
account deficits should grow at reasonable levels during 1985-90. A growth
rate of GDP around 57% per year should be attainable during the second half
of the decade.
External Debt
27.       The expansion of government and government-guaranteed commercial
borrowing in recent years lias adversely affected the debt service ratio,
which has riseua from 3.9% in 1977 to about 23.3% in 1982.  This includes
service payments on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations.
The debt service ratio is expected to increase from about 24% in 1983 to a
peak of 282 in 1991, before declining to around 25% in 1995. Debt service
payments to the Bank in 1982 accounted for 14.7% of total debt service
payments; IDA's share was 0.7%. The Bank's share of total debt service
payments is expected to rise to about 18.3% by 1990, while IDA's share
would rise to 1.2%. The Bank is currently holding 18.9% of Kenya's total
outstanding and disbursed external debt, and IDA 11.3%. The Bank's share
is expected to decline to 16.7% and IDA's to rise to about 14.5% by 1990.
The expected decline in Bank exposure is attributable to an anticipated
prudent borrowing policy. Because of the long-term balance-of-payments
constraint, Kenya's development program will require substantial financing
in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital
combined, and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a
substantial portion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
28.       The developments affecting the East Africa Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). On0 of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals -r the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals. Negotiations,
which started in December 1981 and continued through 1982 and 1983, have
long passed the fact finding stage and are focussing on details of a
division formula for assets and debts. While it is generally accepted that
both location of assets and the principle of equal rights of all former EAC
partners should be taken into account, the weight to be attributed to these
principles remains the major issue. The negotiations are expected to
culminate with a meeting of the three Heads of State, which is likely to
convene as early as mid-November 1983, and would be expecteG to make the
required political decisions. Thereafter, the remaining technical details
and procedures would be worked out at the ministerial level with the
mediator's assistance.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
29.       To date, Kenya has received 42 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 40 IDA credits amounting to US$1,616.7 million,
which supported 72 operations. In addition, Kenya was one of the
beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended
for the development of cocmoa services (railways, ports, telecomunica-
tions, and finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the EAC. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and
IDA credits to Kenya and to the EAC corporations.
30.       The Bank Group has begun to reorient its lending program to
assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy. This has
meant the inclusion in the program of structural adjustment assistance. A
first credit in support of the Government's structural adjustment program
was approved in 1980 and a second structural adjustment operation was
approved by the Bank Group on July 1, 1982 (paragraphs 19-24). Recent
economic work has also focused on the structural problems in specific
sectors, Including the energy sector.
31.       The selection of projects for financing and the design of such
projects have been influenced by the need to complement policy actions
under the structural adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been
given to the agricultural sector, but increasing emphasis also has been
placed on sectors such as population and energy. In FY83, the Second
Structural Adjustment Operation, an Agricultural Technical Assistance
Project, the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project, the National
Extension Project and the Secondary Towns Project were approved.
32.     In FY83, disbursements on projects, as a percentage of mounts
outstanding at the beginning of the year, rose to 16Z (the figure is 26Z
including structural adjustment operations) from 11Z in FY82. This
improvement was largely due to the greater use of Procedure III and the
application of the Treasury's Circular requiring operating Ministries to
-mke prompt reimbursement claims, under penalty of freezing funds.
However, project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance In the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of
local financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and
submitting reimbursement clalms , have led to a poor project disbursement
record. An in-depth review of the causes of this situation has been
undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions were
discussed with the Government at Country Implementation Review (CIR)
meetings. The discussions were frank and constructive, and the Government
informed the Bank Group of several nev initiatives to improve performance,
including those mentioned. During the ongoing CIR discussions, the
Government and the Bank are continuing to review the Government's
development objectives and investment priorities in the context of
implementation capacity and resource constraints. The project portfolio is
under review to determine the scope for reducing project costs through



reformulation, rephasing or cancelling projects which cannot be adequately
funded. As a result, substantial cancellations of funds have been made
frao the Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1636-fl) (US$58.0 million) and
the Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 959-ICE)
(USS38.0 million), and the Rural Water Supply Project (Ln. 1637-i[E) is
being reformulated. The next meeting between the Government and the Baink
to agree on possible further rationalization is tentatively scheduled for
February 1984.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
33.      IFC has committed a total of US$62.5 million for eleven
operations in Kenya. These include loans for six companies: Pan African
Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties. Ltd.; Touriss Promotion Services
(Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.); Bamburi Portland Cement Company,
Ltd; and Tetra Pak Converters Ltd. Also included are a USS2 million credit
line to the Kenya Commercial Bank (Ltd.) a US$5 million credit line to the
Kenya Commercial Finance Company (Ltd.), as well as equity investments in
Development Finance Company of Kenya. Ltd., US$1.3 million, Diamond Trust
of Kenya (Ltd.), USSO.8 million, and Industrial Promotion Services Kenya
(Ltd.), US$0.6 million. As of September 30, 1983, IFC held for its on
account US$62.5 million comprising US$49.7 million of loa1s and US$12.8
mllion of equity. A Summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in
Annex II.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWE SECrORS
The Ene gy Sector
34.      Total energy consumption approached 7.3 million tons of oil
equivalent in 1981. Per capita annual consumption is estimated at 1,650 kg
of oil equivalent in urban areas and 315 kg in rural areas, a significant
disparity reflecting the existence of a large, higher income population in
Nairobi and MGombasa. Even the level of rural consumption, however, is
higher than the average for Africa (300 kg) or the subsistence level (250
kg). Domestically-produced wood and charcoal account for about 70X of
consumption and virtually all non-commercial consumption. Oil preducts,
largely processed domestically from i ported crude, supply about a quarter
of total energy used; hydroelectricity supplies close to 5%. A-bout
three-quarters of energy demand (mostly non-commercial) is by residential
users, about 13% by transport and the rest by industrial, agricultural and
commercial users.
35.      Among Kenya's indigenous energy sources, firewood, including
charcoal, is by far the most important. Forests cover about 4Z of the
country's total area, regenerating at a rate of about 9 million cu m
annually. However, annual consumption is about 37 million cu m, resulting
in severe and rapid depletion of the forests. The Government has
undertaken intensive reforestation with fast-growing softwoods. Bank
assistance in this effort includes three forestry projects with fuelwood
components.



- 10 -
36.       The greatest known indigenous source of commercial energy in
Kenya is the hydroelectric potential of its rivers. The hydropower
potential of Kenya has been estimated to be about 6,000 MW (30,000 GWh per
year), although half of this lies in small rivers and is uneconomic to
develop. Most of the remaining poLential is on the Tana River, but it is
economically feasible to develop only about 800 MW or 4,OOC to 5,000 GWh
per year (1,500,000 tons of oil equivalent per annum). About 350 MW is
already developed.
37.       Development of geothermal power began in 1978 when the
comparative cost of imported oil and the growth in demand for electricity
made it sufficiently attractive. Geothermal areas in Kenya are located in
the Rift Valley which runs from the Kenya - Tanzania border in the south to
Ethiopia in the north. There are three major areas of geothermal activity:
Olkaria, which is under development, and Eburru and Lake Bogoria, which are
currently being explored. The most attractive potential is at Olkaria,
near Lake Naivasha, about 100 km from Nairobi. Exploration began over 20
years ago, and investigations funded since then by UNDP and the Kenya Power
and Lighting Company Limited (KP&L) indicated that the site should be
capable of supporting power generation of at least 100 KW and possibly more
than 200 MW. Under the Olkaria Geothermal Power Projeat (Loan No.
1799-KE), 30 MW are now in service, while, under the Olkaria Geothermal
Power Expansion Project (Loan 2237-KE), an additional 15 MW will be put
into service. Moreover, UNDP is assisting investigation of geothermal
power at Eburru and Lake Bogoria, and it is expected that, with further
search, geothermal power could contribute significantly toward meeting
Kenya's electric power need:.
38.       In spite of continuing search, there has been no success in
locating oil reserves in Kenya, although relatively small amounts of gas
have been fornd.  A Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Loan No.
2065-KE) currently under implementation is designed to provide technical
assistance to accelerate petroleum exploration in Kenya. There are no
known coal reserves.
39.       The principal source of commercial energy for Kenya is from
imported oil and petroleum products. Over the period 1973-1981, the
consumption of imported liquid fuels as a percentage of total commercial
energy decreased from about 90X to about 80% as a result of Government
policy. Except for minor amounts of specialty oils and greases, most of
the imported crude oil is processed at the refinery at Mombasa. In 1979,
about 3.0 million tons of crude oil were refined, with about 1.5 million
tons used domestically and the remainder exported to neighboring
countries. Net oil imports absorbed 8Z of gross export earnings in 1976-77
and reached 25% in 1981. Oil consumption decreased after the commissioning
of the Gitaru Hydroelectric Project in 1978, and declined further upon the
commissioning of the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project.
40.       The Government has followed a consistent policy of keeping petro-
leum product prices in line with or above international prices. Taxes are
levied on petroleum products with the exception of fuel oil and industrial
diesel oil. Regarding electricity prices. a tariff structure based on
long-term marginal costs, formulated with Bank assistance, was introduced



- 11 -
in 1979 and has recently been revised by KP&L. In the interests of equity,
the electricity tariff structure does not take into account differences in
costs of supply to consumers in all parts of the country even though
certain isolated areas are supplied with expensive diesel-generated
electricity.
41.       In line with the increased attention being given to energy
issues, the Government consolidated responsibility for the energy sector in
the Ministry of Energy (now Ministry of Energy and Regional Development,
HOERD), which was created in December 1979. The MOERD oversees: (i)
energy policy formulation; (ii) electric power development; (iii)
development of oil and other fossil fuels; and (iv) research on
non-conventional energy sources - wind, biogas, solar, geothermal, and
wood fuel. In this connection, the European Economic Community is
financing a study on the structure of MOERD and its relationship with other
institutions in the sector. Responsibility for forests lies principally
with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The Ministry of
Finance and Planning establishes prices and tax rates for all energy
resources. Although the creation of the HOERD was an important step in
organizing sector activities, there is still a need to define overall
priorities in sector development and to coordinate activities of bilateral
and multilateral aid agencies to reflect such priorities.
42.       In May 1982, the Bank published 'Kenya:  Issues and Options in
the Energy Sector, which contains a number of recommendations to improve
Kenya's energy sector. Kenya has, in general, followed appropriate energy
sector policies. It has, for example, consistently passed energy price
increases along to consumers, and maintained appropriate levels of
taxation. The two major energy problems which the Bank report identified
are the high cost of imported petroleum which is becoming a significant
drain on the foreign exchange resources of Kenya, and the deforestation,
which, while not serious in some areas, is accelerating because wood fuel
is being consumed at about four times the annual rate of replenishment.
The recommendations include the encouragement of a more economic mix of
petroleum product imports and exports, a more realistic and less ambitious
fuel alcohol investment program, replacement of oil-fired thermal plant
power generation through the further development of hydroelectric and
geothermal resources, and, in the longer term, the deveLopment of
inter-regional hydroelectric power projects. Other recommendations include
the change-over of oil-fired heating equipment in industries to coal,
ensuring that energy is used more efficiently, a more vigorous search for
possible petroleum within the country, and improvement in the reforestation
programs. The final recommendation was that the Government develop an
overall long term strategy for the energy sector. Under the Second
Structural Adjustment Operation (Loan No. 2190-KE/Credit No. 1276-KE), the
Government has undertaken, inter alia, to develop (with assistance of
external consultants) and discuss with the Bank, comprehensive energy
sector policies and an investment program providing for both production and
conservation in the modern and traditional sectors. These studies have
been completed, and a strategy and investment program for energy is being
finalized by the Government which will be incorporated in the Fifth Plan
now under preparation.



- 12 -
The Power Sector
43.       The availability of power to consumers in Kenya is, in general,
limited to the more densely populated narrow strip running across the
southern part of the country from Mombasa through Nairobi to Lake Victoria
(Map IBRD 17029) in parallel with the railway, and along the coast. Of
the estimated 15 million inhabitants in Kenya, 90Z live in rural areas.
Only 6X of the total population has access to electricity, and the average
estimated per capita consumption of electrical energy of this small percen-
tage of the population was about 1800 KWh in 1981. The rates of growth in
the five main electricity consuming areas in Kenya averaged 7.9% over the
period 1976-81. Most of the demand is from industry.
44.       The electricity supply industry in Kenya is presently composed of
four entities: Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited (KP&L), Kenya
Power Company, Limited (KPC), Tana River Development Company, Limited
(TRDC), and the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority (TARDA). KP&L
coordinates all sources of power and is the sole distributor, purchasing in
bulk from the other three companies. KP&L also operates all generating
facilities, staffs and manages KPC and TRDC, and, since August 1981, staffs
the Masinga hydroelectric generating station owned by TARDA. The
Government owns about 57% of of KP&L, while the balance is privately
owned.  KPC and TRDC were established by KP&L with Government
participation. KPC was set up in 1955, primarily to finance the
interconnection with Uganda and to sell the imported power to KP&L. TRDC
was formed in 1964 to develop the potential of the UJpper Tana River. TARDA
was organized primarily to develop the Tana and Athi River Basins and has
extensive interests in irrigation, reforestation and industry. It is also
empowered to construct hydroelectric power facilities, such as the Masinga
station, and to generate and sell its energy in its respective area. In
1971, to enable Government to increase its participation in the electricity
supply industry, the Government acquired all the shares of KPC and TRDC,
although their staffing and management are integrated into KP&L under a
management agreement. Further, KP&L purchases the entire output of KPC and
TRDC, and is the only company with revenue earning capacity. KPC was
selected to implement the first geothermal power project, as well as the
expansion project. The Government realizes that rationalization of the
structure of the power industry could be achieved by integrating all three
companies, which already operate for all practical purposes as one
company. Therefore, it was agreed under Loan 2237-KE, as a first step,
that a program for the merger of KPC and TRDC would be drawn up. In
addition, the Government is carrying out a sector organization study,
based on terms of reference approved by the Bank.
45.       KP&L is a well-managed utility and is operated in accordance with
sound commercial principles. The staff of KP&L at November 30, 1982,
inclusive of staff attached to KPC and TRDC, numbered 5,300. Although the
number of expatriates is decreasing as increasing numbers of Kenyans are
trained to replace them, KP&L will have to rely on expatriates for some
years. The training program is effective. Under 1799-KE, the program was
expanded to meet the specialized needs of the geothermal project.



- 13 -
46.       TARDA, a regional development agency, is accountable to the
Ministry of Energy and Regional Development (MOERD). Its duties include:
(i) advising the Government on development possibilities within the Tana
and Athi River basins; (ii) establishing long range plans for the effective
utilization of the water resources of these basins; (iii) coordinating and
maintaining all development projects in the catchment area and, in some
cases, undertaking the execution of development projects, including power
projects; and (iv) maintaining liaison between the Government, the private
sector and foreign agencies in the development of the Tana and Athi basins.
47.       TARDA's Board of Directors consists of a Chairman, appointed by
the President, seven Permanent Secretaries from various ministries, the
General Manager of the National Irrigation Board, the Chairman of KP&L, the
Director of Water Development, and five representatives from various
sectors who are appointed by MDERD in consultation with the President.
Day-to-day management is delegated to a Managing Director, with four
department managers for: (i) the Athi River Planning Team, (ii) the Tana
River Planning Team, (iii) Finance and Personnel, and (iv) Administration.
In addition, a project team leader (position vacant since August 1982) and
a financial advisor, the only staff directly attached to TARDA's power
activities, report to the Managing Director. In August 1982, TARDA had 110
employees, including two expatriates (a financial adviser and a hydro
resources and irrigation engineer).
48        The total installed capacity of the inter-connected power system
is 541 MW of which 348 MW is hydro, 30 MW is geothermal, and 163 MW is
oil-based thermal. KP&L has about 9,970 km of transmission lines operating
at various voltages throughout the country. Total distribution transformer
capacity in service is about 1,780 MVA (excluding generating switching
stations). The total system loss is about 15X, which, although higher than
desirable, is considered reasonable bearing in mind the age and condition
of the equipment. As these losses increase, KP&L installs suitable system
compensation equipment, and strengthens power distribution lines within its
general development program to further reduce losses as far as economically
possible.
49.       Under the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project, a study was carried
out to determine what kind of a power project the Government should
undertake ne:t. The study recommended construction of the proposed
Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project to be completed in 1985. However, the
start of construction was delayed while new engineering studies were being
completed. In order to meet the forecast gap in 1985 the Olkaria
Geothermal Power Expansion project was initiated. The actual and forecast
sales of electricity from 1976 to 1990 show that Kenya requires the
installation of additional firm generating facilities by 1987. Kenya's
future electric energy needs will be met by further development of
geothermal and hydro resources, or by thermal stations using imported
fossil fuels. In the long term, some of Kenya's electrical energy may be
provided from neighboring countries, but even in the short term it has been
assumed that Uganda cannot guarantee even the agreed firm supply of 30 MW
(250 Gwh annually). The Bank encourages such links between neighboring
countries which benefit all participants.



- 14 -
5U.       Less than 1Z of the rural population is supplied with
electricity. The Government has a Rural Electrification Fund which is
administered by the Electricity Development Committee. KP&L manages and
operates rural electrification schemes, receives revenue from the
consumers, and presents statements of revenue and cost to the Committee.
Funds provided from the interest differential between the soft terms of a
Swedish International Development Authority credit to the Government for
the Kamburu project and the Government's harder onlending terms to TRDC
are used to finance part of the rural electrification program.  In 1980 and
1981-:the Canadian International Development Agency made grants totalling
USS2.7 million to the rural electrification program. KP&L normally
apportions 1Z of its gross sales revenue (about US$900,000 in 1981) to
develop additional schemes, but in recent years the funds serve mainly to
cover the losses of the earlier schemes. Although the rural
electrification programs appear to be uneconomic, the Government has
continued to encourage the expansion of the programs by providing funds
through interest differentials, in the belief that improvement of the
social, commercial and industrial activities in small communities will tend
to reduce migration to the larger urban centers. Although none of the
schemes undertaken to date are financially viable, most could becoe
remunerative in time. Meanwhile, the social and economic well-being of the
rural community is gradually being improved.
51.       The proposed loan would be the sixth bank lending operation for
power in Kenya. Two previous loans - US$23 million for the Kamburu Hydro-
electric Project (Ln. 745-KE) and US$63 million for the Gitaru
Hydroelectric Project (Ln. 1147-KE) - were made to TRDC. KPC was loaned
US$9 mill'   for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Loan S-12-KE),
which was absorbed into a US$40 million Loan 1799-KE in 1980 for the
Olkaria Geothermal Power Project. This was followed by a US$12 million
loan for the Olkaria Geothermal Power Expansion Project (Ln. 2237-KE). The
Kamburu project was completed in 1974 about five months behind schedule
with a cost overrun of about 7%. The delays were not unusual for a
construction program of this nature, and the cost overrun was unavoidable
as it was largely due to currency fluctuations. The Project Performance
Audit Report No. 1230, dated July 14, 1976, stated that the construction of
the dam, powerhouse and transmission lines posed no unusual problems, and
that the project was completed as planned with only minor start-up
problems. It was noted that KP&L would have to rely on the technical
expertise of expatriates for some years to come, and that an appropriate
training program was available for all levels of personnel. The sales and
maximum demand forecasts were exceeded to such an extent that with a tariff
increase in 1974. the rate of return for the project was 21% as compared
with the appraisal estimate of 16%. The Gitaru project was the last phase
of the development of the hydro potential at the Seven Forks of the Tana
River. It is situated between the Kamburu and Kindaruma power stations,
and the three stations operate in cascade. The Project Performance Audit
Report No. 3505 notes that the Gitaru project was completed within the
dates established by the contracts, attributing this to good supervision by
the consultants and the availability of financial incentives to the
contractors. The first unit of the Olkaria Geothermal Power Project went
into commercial service in August 1981, and the second in December 1982,
some three months ahead of schedule. The Olkaria Geothermal Power



- 15 -
Expansion Project consists of the third 15 MW unit and other ancillary
works. Investigations of the geothermal potential of the site, a study for
the least cost development investment program, and a feasibility study for
the next recommended project are also included.
52.       The Bank's continued lending in the sector would assist in
funding Kenya's requirements for energy, technical assistance, the
development of Kenyan institutions and personnel to fill management
positions now held by expatriate staff, and studies on the justification
and manner that existing resources may be developed to meet the needs of
the country. The Bank intends to assist in promoting power interconnection
with neighbouring countries and joint planning of regional electrical
facilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The project was proposed to the Bank in September 1980.  Negotia-
tions began in May 1983 in Washington, D.C, and were completed in October
1983. The Kenyan delegation was led by Professor P. Gacci, Permanent
Secretary of the former Ministry of Regional Development, Science and
Technology (responsibilities now subsumed by other ministries following the
Government reorganization in September 1983).  A Loan and Project Summary
is given at the beginning of this report, and a Staff Appraisal Report
entitled 'Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project- (No. 4336-KE of
1983) is being distributed separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet
is attached as Annex III.
Background
54.       The proposed Kiambere dam and reservoir would be the fifth of a
series of ten proposed power producing facilities on the Upper Tana River.
The selected site is located some 150 km northeast of Nairobi and some 30
km downstream of the Kindaruma dam and reservoir. Preliminary works
already completed include an existing camp at Kamburu, a 31-km long access
road, a new camp and a landing strip suitable for light aircraft, at
Kiambere.
Project Objectives and Description
55.       The project is accorded priority in the Government's development
plan. Its main objective is to ensure a firm source of reliable electric
generating capacity to meet the growth in demand which is expected to
exceed the capabilities of the generating facilities existing in 1987. The
project would develop indigenous renewable energy resources and create new
job opportunities, particularly during its construction period, and reduce
the country's heavy dependence on imported oil.
56.       The project consists of:
(a) a rock and earthfill dam (approximately 100 m high with
a crest length of about one km), a saddle dam with a
concrete-lined spillway, and two diversion tunnels;



- 16 -
(b) an intake, a concrete and steel-lined shaft and a tunnel to
connect the reservoir to an underground powerhouse, and a
reinforced concrete surge shaft near the downstream end of
tunnel;
(c) an underground powerhouse with two 70 MW vertical
turbines, and a short tailrace tunnel;
(d) a 220-kV switchyard;
(e) 80 km of 220-kV transmission lines to connect the powerhouse
to the existing grid; and
(f) consultants' services for (i) detailed design and
construction supervision; (ii) a project team leader; and
(iii) a panel of experts to advise on civil works.
57.       A report entitled 'Kiambere Hydroelectric Development  (April
1980) by Engineering and Power Development Consultants, Ltd disclosed no
negative environmental effects of sufficient magnitude to impede the
construction of the project. Moreover, no adverse effects have been
observed to date at the four existing storage reservoirs upstream of the
Kiambere site. However, a detailed study of the integrated development of
the area, possibly including resettlement of recent inmdgrants, is needed,
and TARDA has retained consultants to carry out the study based on term of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to be completed in early 1984.
Project Implementation
58.       TARDA, under its authority to execute pover projects in the Tana
River Basin (paras. 44 and 46), would be responsible for constructing the
project, assisted by engineering consultants, Watermeyer, Legge, Piesold
and Ulhmann (WLPU), and mechanical and electrical consultants, Ewbank,
Preece and Partners (EP), who prepared the feasibility study and bid
documents, and by a financial manager currently being financed by the EEC.
As customary for large power projects, the Bank requested TARDA to employ
independent cost and design review consultants to review WLPU's and EP's
work, financed through a project preparation facility (P-60-KE) in the
amount of US$250,000. A second project preparation facility (P-68-KE) was
approved in September 1983 in the amount of US$750,000 to help finance
WLPU's services in completing the project preparation. For the
construction period, TARDA intends to retain WLPU and EP for additional
design work and construction supervision, and to retain the design review
consultants as a part-time panel of experts. The terms of reference and
the qualifications, experience and conditions of contract for WLPU and EP
consultants and the panel of experts, as well as TARDA's project team
leader and financial manager, would be acceptable to the Bank (Sections
3.02(a) and 3.02(b), Loan Agreement).
59.       The project implementation schedule is based on a target
in-service date for both power generating units of May 31. 1988. To this
ead, the request for submission of bids for the civil works was issued to



- 17 -
prequalified bidders on February 1, 1983, and requests for bids for
electrical/mechanical equipment were issued to prequalified bidders on
February 25, 1983. All bids were received on May 18, 1983. TARDA expects
to award all contracts shortly after Board Presentation.
60.       After the plant is commissioned, TARDA would lease the
electricity-related Kiambere installations, including the powerhouae,
substations and related works, to KP&L, who would operate the facilities
and bear all &rect operating costs associated therewith. The rent KP&L
would pay to &RDA- would cover TAARDA'S overhead expenses and debt servicing
requirements for the Kiambere station's electricity-related fixed assets.
In light of KP&L's experience in operating similar power stations and in
dealing with other power sector institutions, this arrangement is
satisfactory. Horeover, under the agreement, IARDA would receive
sufficient revenue from KP&L to service all of its loans related to the
financing of the project. A condition of the Bank loan's effectiveness
would be that the lease agreement between TARDA and KP&L would have been
executed (Section 7.01(a), Loan Agreement).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
611.      The total project cost, including physical ana price contingen-
cies (but excluding interest during construction and the front-end fee on
the Bank loan), is estimated at US$311.8 million, with US$147.6 million, or
53%, in foreign exchange. The cost estimates include import duties and
taxes estimated at US$46.2 million. Physical contingencies of 20% on civil
works and 10 on equipment have been provided. Price contingencies were
applied on the base costs plus physical contingencies as follows: for
local costs, 14.0X in 1983, 13.0% in 1984, and 12.02 thereafter; for
foreign costs, 8.0% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, and 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0Z
thereafter.  Interest during construction on the loans from the Bank and
other external aid sources, together with the front-end fee on the Bank
loan, would add an additional US$42.0 million to the foreign exchange
financial requirements of the project. Details of the cost estimates are
shown in the Loan and Project Summary (p. ii). The cost estimates were
prepared by consultants WLPU and EP on the basis of tender prices received
May 18, 1983. The cost of consultants' services is estimated at about
US$31.1 million, including costs of TARDA's panel of experts and project
team leader (US$1.6 million). The average manmonth cost of expatriate
consultants, including salary, travel and subsistence, is estimated at
US$6,400 and US$1,800 for local staff. The panel's mnmonth rate is
estimated at US$23,300, which reflects the high quality of expertise
desired by TARDA.
62.       The proposed Bank loan would finance about 22% of the estimated
total project cost, excluding interest during construction and the
front-end fee on the Bank loan. The loan would finance about 20% of the
estimated foreign component (US$147.6 million) and about 23% of the
estimated local component (US$164.8 million) of the project. Specifically,
the loan would cover about 4% of the foreign expenditures and 86% of the
local expenditures for the dam contract, excluding duties and taxes, and
100% of the costs for the interest during construction and front-end fee on
the Bank loan, repayment of the two Project Preparation Facilities, and the



- 18 -
panel of experts and the project team leader (beginning April 1, 1984).  It
also would cover 100Z of the foreign cost and 33% of the local costs of the
engineering consultants for the design and supervision of constructior.
Retroactive financing of about US$2.5 million would be used to finance the
costs of consultants from November 1, 1982, the time of appraisal. The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period, at
the standard variable interest rate. The front-end fee would be at 0.25%
of the loan amount (about USS0.2 million) and would be capitalized. TARDA
would bear both foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the loan.
63.       The financing for the remaining foreign costs of the dam contract
would be provided by the African Development Bank (54%), the Saudi Fund for
Development (28%), and the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic
Cooperation (142). The financing of the underground works (powerhouse and
tunnels) and the electrical/mechanical equipment would be provided through
grants and loans from various external aid agencies, TARDA and the
Government.   Tenders and offers of financing have been received and
evaluated by the Borrower, but announcement of the tender awards and
cofinanciers will not be made until after Board Presentation. The amount
of external financing required is estimated at about US$259.5 million, or
about 84% of the total financing requirement (including interest during
construction, but excluding duties and taxes). A condition of loan
effectiveness would be the receipt of evidence satisfactorr to the Bank
that the effectiveness conditions of the other external financing sources
have been met (Section 7.01(b), Loan Agreement). Another condition of the
Bank's loan effectiveness would be that the Government has executed an
agreement with TARDA to onlend or make available the funds provided under
the project (Section 7.01(c), Loan Agreement).
64.       The Government's contribution of USS46.2 million equivalent in
the form of equity would be used to defray the costs of duties and taxes
imposed on the Project. TARDA would provide the remaining funds estimated
at US$48.1 million equivalent, or about 162 of the total project cost,
excluding duties and taxes, to complete the financing of the project. All
these funds would be in the form of a development surcharge paid by KP&L
from operating revenues.
Financial Structure and Performance
65.       The activities of the three companies (KP&L, KPC, and TRDC) and
the regional authority (TARDA), which comprise the public power sector in
Kenya, are closely connected through common management and staff (para.
44). As such, their financial performances should not be evaluated in
isolation, but should be consolidated and evaluated jointly instead.
Accordingly, the operating income and revalued net fixed assets of the
companies and the power related operations of the authorities have been
combined (with all inter-agency transactions eliminated), and rates of
return for the entire power sector (excluding rural electrification) have
been determined.
6b.       The consolidated balance sheet of the three companies shows that,
at the end of 1982, the total net assets were US$412 million and the
debt/equity ratio 46/54, indicating that the companies are conservatively



- 19 -
capitalized. They also have adequate working capital and satisfactory cash
positions. The combined rates of return earned for the years 1979-1982
were 7.9%, 6.4%, 11.6X, and 7.2%, respectively, reflecting an adequate
earning position, which, in 1981, was substantially above the 7% earnings
requirement included under Loan 1799-KE. In early 1983, the Government
approved a 13% tariff increase, effective June 1, 1983, to further improve
the earning position of the companies.
67.       Net income for the years 1981 and 1982 has been significantly
decreased due to exchange losses resulting from currency revaluation.
These currency rate fluctuations have also had adverse effects on the
foreign currency debt of the three companies. KP&L and TARDA would provide
annual proforma revaluation of assets on a price index agreed between KP&L,
TARDA and the Bank, which would reflect the increases in the replacement
cost of fixed assets due to currency rate fluctuation as well as inflation
(Section 3.01, Project Agreement).
68.       The working capital positions of the three companies at June 30,
1980 and 1982, are acceptable with current ratios of 2.0 and 1.8
respectively. KP&L has maintained good control of debtors, with accounts
receivable amounting to about two months' billing. The cash position at
end-1982 was very low, but is expected to improve during the project
period. However, there could be a minor cash problem during the early
project years. KP&L has available a short term line of credit with local
commercial banks to provide necessary funds if small cash shortages are
experienced.
69.       To make a contribution to its construction program and to meet
the operating and debt service requirements of the power sector, KP&L would
require timely tariff revisions and other revenue generating measures.
During the construction of the project, the Government would allow KP&L (i)
to increase tariffs so as to obtain revenues sufficient to contribute at
least 15X of the total cost of the project, including interest during
construction and duties and taxes (Section 2.04, Project Agreement), and
(ii) to generate sufficient revenues which would result in rates of return
of 8% in 1984 and 1985, 10Z in 1986 and 1987, and 8Z thereafter on the
combined average net fixed assets of the sector (excluding rural
electrification), revalued in accordance with a price index agreed between
KP&L, TARDA and the Bank (Section 3.01, Project Agreement).
Accouncs and Audit
7U.       KP&L, KPC and TRDC prepare their accounts in accordance with
sound commercial and public utility accounting practices. These accounts
are currently audited by certified public accountants whose performance has
been generally satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. KP&L also prepares
consolidated statements for KPC and TRDC, and for all three companies
combined. Under the project, the companies would submit to the Bank annual
accounts and consolidated accounts, certified by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the end of the financial year
(Section 3.02(d) and (e), Project Agreement).



- 20 -
71.       TARDA's accounting procedures are designed to meet the
requirements of Government, as well as commercial accounting standards, and
to provide necessary data relative to the construction program. The audit
for FYB1 has been completed and the accounts for FY82 will be submitted to
the Auditor General shortly.   Under the pruject, TARDA would submit its
accounts to the Bank, certified by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank, within six months of the end of the fiscal year (Sections 5.02(a) and
5.02(b), Loan Agreement). It is anticipated that the audit of the Auditor
General would be acceptable to the Bank. TARDA would also submit
appropriate data by June 30 on each preceding calendar year so as to make
possible the determination of a rate of return for the sector (excluding
rural electrification) on average net revalued assets (Section 5.02(c),
Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
72.       Tenders for the preliminary construction works (i.e., field
investigations, camps, roads and airfield) were called locally and the
contracts awarded to local construction firms. Procurement for work and
material financed by the Bank for the construction of the main and saddle
dams, together with the spillway and two diversion tunnels, has been in
accordance with Bank guidelines for international competitive bidding
(ICB). TARDA has proceeded with ICB from prequalified contractors for all
other contracts. These civil works and equipment contracts were based on
the requirement that the bids be accompanied by financing offers.
Evaluation was first based on technical grounds. Then the acceptable bids
were compared on the total evaluated costs including the cost of the
proposed financing package.   The engineering contract (construction
supervision and ongoing design work) has been awarded to the Government's
consultants (WLPU and EP).
73.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over five years
for: (i) interest during construction and the front-end fee on the Bank
loan; (ii) reimbursement of the two PPF's; (iii) 4% of the foreign cost and
86% of the local cost of the construction of the dams; (iv) the cost of the
project team leader and the panel of experts; and (v) 100% of the foreign
cost and 33% of the local costs of the engineering consultants. The
remaining costs of the project would be disbursed from funds provided by
other external aid agencies, TARDA and the Government. All disbursements
would be fully documented by TARDA. The closing date for the loan would be
June 30, 1989. The disbursement schedule (p. iii) deviates from the Bank
disbursement profile for hydro projects in Eastern Africa because Bank
funds are not being provided for the project as a whole, but only for the
dam contract and consultants.
Justification and Risks
74.       The proposed project is part of Kenya's power sector development
program to meet growth in demand in the inter-connected network to 1995.
The timing for the addition of new generation capacity has been determined
by KP&L and confirmed by the Bank. Based on existing capacities, available
cost estimates, and the load forecast, the present program would be the
least cost solution. By 1988, total system firm capacity would increase to



-  21  -
about 4bU MW and 2,313 GWh (excluding Kiambere), but would be insufficient
to meet the expected demand of 465 MW and 2,771 GWh with minimum system
reserves of 1U5 HW (corresponding to one of the largest hydro units and one
of the largest thermal units). Additional capacity (the proposed Kiambere
project 140 MW, b83 GWh firm energy) would therefore be needed to meet load
growth in 1988. However, following the 1978 study,upon which the present
power sector development plan is based, TARDA's consultants, WLPU and EP,
completed new studies which indicated that,although the Kiambere project is
the least cost next generation addition, it could not be completed before
1988. To meet the small deficit in meeting the demand in 1985 before the
completion of Kiambere, the construction of the third 15-MW Olkaria
geothermal unit was planned for completion in 1985.
75.     Although a number of potential sites for hydroelectric generation
have been identified in Kenya, including sites on the Tana, Athi, Turkwel
and other rivers, none of these sites could be considered as a possible
alternative to the Kiambere project, because none could be developed for
operation by 1988. Furthermore, the 1978 power sector development plan
identified Kiambere as the least cost site for next development. Gas
turbines, diesel units, oil- and coal-steam units based on imported fuel
are by far the most expensive alternatives to Kiambere. However,
additional gas turbines and diesel units were considered to firm up hydro
energy in dry years or :o defer the addition of new hydro plants with large
investment costs in the event of a capaCity constraint only. Therefore,
possible programs to satisfy the load growth to 1995 included: a gas
turbine, a diesel station, Kiambere hydro, Turkwel hydro, geothermal, a
coal power plant and an oil-fired power plant. Three separate development
programs were considered and the one beginning with the commissioning of
Kiambere (140 MW in 1988), succeeded by a hydroelectric project (Turkwell
120 MW) and a geothermal project (45 MW), was found to be the least cost
program for discount rates of 22%. Sensitivity tests were carried out to
determine the effects of a 10% increase in capital costs of the project and
a 10% reduction in total demand as well as a reduction in coal costs to
US$50/ton and were found overall to support Kiambere as the least cost
solution. The economic rate of return for the project would be about 10Z.
76.      Possible project risks are related to the issues of load growth,
physical construction, and tariffs. Load growth has been assumed to be
lower than in the past since the current economic recession is expected to
continue. If growth were lower than estimated, due to further economic
*           deterioration, projects following Kiambere would be rescheduled.  Although
site investigations and sub-surface exploration have shown that the
geological conditions in some areas are not favorable, no major physical
risks are anticipated in implementing the proposed project beyond those
that are normally expected in a project of this type and size. As for
tariffs, many and timely tariff increases have been implemented in the
past, and further annual increases are expected to be needed to satisfy
future earning requirements. Experience in Kenya has shown no appreciable
effect on growth of demand due to tariff increases, except in the case of
water heating when tariff increases have been designed to encourage use of
solar water heaters, a desirable effort which should continue. Since
electricity amounts to less than 2X of total cost of all inputs used in the



- 22 -
industrial sector, no effect on demand has been experienced in spite of
doubling industrial tariffs since 1975. It is thus expected that future
growth would not be materially affected by the proposed tariff increases.
PART V   LEGAL INSTR  AENTS  D AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Tana and Athi
Rivers Development Authority, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank
and the Kenya Power and Lighting Company T-imted, the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank. and the Report of the
Comittee provided for in Article III. Section 4(iii) of the A ticles of
Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
78.       Provisions In the Loan, Project, and Guarantee Agreements of
particular importance are noted in paras. 58 through 71 of this Report and
those of a special nature are also listed In Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of effectiveness for this proposed loan (Section 7.01,
Loan Agreement) are that: (i) the lease agreement between TARDA and XP&L
has been signed (para. 60); Cii) the receipt of evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that the effectiveness conditions of the other external financing
sources have been met (para. 63); and (iii) the Government bas executed an
agreement with TARDA to oalend or make available the funds provided under
the project (para. 63).
79.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART V      E EON
80.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 15, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE:
- 23 -
ANIE  I
-SOCIAL    CATOStS uA SE
3E51A                               RFUE   t GRSa8  (U1CIaI AUEEA0ES) l
MUST                     CRSr XEJ3;T ESETIAXE) lb
b  197Wb             MEDDLE INCOME         eI      I   I
1960&k             :=7r iE 5Ia    AF13CA; S. OF SARA"   -_ ;1FIACA & 'CD 5;Sr
TOML                              5u 6        58.6       562..
.ICYAIO ;lTKUAL                    S..4        59D1        60.4                _                        _
GNP CMR lP  CM)                       90.0       140.0      420.0             1147.9                   1340.0
CLC215S OF COAL EQUt ALESr)       57_0       205.0      206.0              724.z                    10.4
POIULAII AD VEaL  MrUST=
POPU.ATlSO.11D-IA  (TwcsAws)   S189.90   L153.0    17363.0
UD.3 FOEGLATIOS C. OF TOTAL)        7.4        10.2       14.7               28.5                     47.4
POPMlAXIOS m.or=CrIoxs
POPULATIOI IS WAR 200D CILL)                            39-6
S-AoZt  D SOPULAtIIN (HiL)                              157.1
T14 SATIART PO_. as W                                 ZLY .
POPULATIOIS OCi5IT
PEA SQ. iEA                      14.1        19.3      2Z.6                56.5                     36.0
Pla. Ss- M  AGaL LaS5    '      45.2       19i.4      Z75.o              131.8                   441.
POPULXON AME S7RUCTRE C_l)
0-14 12S                        47*7        46.9       502                45.9                     43.9
15-64 TS                         49.6        46.6       47.4               51.-                     52.8
65 AND ADM                        Z.6         Z.5        Z.4                2.8                      3.3
POPUIATIOr.GOWTHn RAZE CZ)
TOAL.Z .4                                    3}_Z        3.9                2.8                      Z.9
URa                               5.Z         6.4        7.3                5.3                      4.6
OCRDE IMK U;nC  CPEI lifTS)        54.7        54.7       54.6               47.6                     42.5
CRUDE EATA RTE (PER lIftS)         23.-        17.8       12.9               L5.Z                     t2.u
CUSS URU0_   OS RAME                3.9         3.9        3.1                3.2                      3.0
-,.1M1 PJAS1E
AOPrORS. AM*L COiOUS)               --       30.9       63.0
USERS GC. OF 5tE U )       ._         1_0 ..0
T  OF 300 PR3D0 PER CAP1TA
1969-71-100)                       S9.0       100.0       85.0              95.7                     97.5
FMt CALm sums OF
CALORIES C OF *QURIETS)          99.0        95.0       84.0               97.1                    1JZ_.3
P&iULMS (CA5S PME OA*1           66.0        bs.d       56_U               Sb.6)                    72.n
UF 1c1  ASLIAL MD PULSE        27.0        27.0       24.O/c             L7.2                     17.6
01n (4ASES 1-4) DEAT  AZAS         29-L        ZL.9       14.5               23.6                     15.Z
LLFE EUECr. AT  UEal (YEARS)       41.3        44.7       56.0               51.9                     57.2
[F5.A4 2r. EAS (PEA cmOnM)        137.5       112.0       84.7              LL7.6         t04.2
ACWSS TO SAFE WATER C(P)
TOTAL                                        15.0        L7.Ofd            Z5.4                     59.3
waS                                .        100.0       100.0/d            70.5                     84.9
IAL                                ..         2.0        4.0_7             12.3                     37.5
ACESS TO ECTA DISPOSAL
C: OF POLMATIS)
TOAL                               ..        50.u       55.utd
UBAN                               .         S5.0       9SI.01d
IUA .L                                       45.0       4a.07..
POPULATIm  PMA PrSlCIM          10690.0      7830.0/b  105300 Oft.        12181.6                   3536.0
P3?. Fa 1303RS8 PESON           2Z70.0/f ,  147o.o7i      550 :00e        2Z92.0                    1320.7
.OP. PA NOSPrTAL  E-
TOTL                            790.0       770.0      8oof.0j           1075.4                    643.3
uRBAN                            N.0/f                6 620 07j          402.3                    545.0
NORM.                              .-          ..      830.e7            3926.7                   2462.0
406SL65 FM  Uos rrrA.                ..          .. W.0                       ..                      20.4
AVERAGE Sla OF OUSEQIOLO
TOMA                               .          4.7
U"                                4.9/f       4.7
MURAL                              --         4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PEASOUSIOO'
TOM                                            ._
03DM                              2.5/f        ...                           .
RURAL                              - -'
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              .            ....46.2
URBA;                              __          _.         ..                 ..                     77.6
RI,AL                                               ,, ,,                                           16.1



BEST COPY AVILUBLE
- 24 -
A     I
mWe 2
X8T                   - SOCIAL 1m10*S DATA lUST
CVE    C I W mum (wtDm  AllRAS) 1a
9sr C?                   (     ST 0 -   KSTMW) /b
laDE9 I NCa          IL !as
1.                 ATR=S. Or &MUSA         K.  ~~~~~PUMCA 5, MD 58A?
MU-I
AMDUJUST-ZD ULHZ RAT=OS
PU -wR    WU1                    57.0       61.0     l18O                97.2                     89.6
NALE                  65.O        72.0      15.0              103.1                    105.3
FAUaLE                30.0        30.0      101.0              88.5                     72.5
SEM:  TO2.0                                  9.0       18.0              17.2 1.7
mar                    3.0        13.0       21.0              23.5                     52.8
FEKA2 2.0                          La        13.0              14.2                     31.2
VWOC    L Ca OF sECJUm)            12.2        L.8        2.0               5.2                     10.3
P1L-T,A RATIO
P1mAK              Z2.0                     35.0   * 0.0                 42.9                     31.9
SECMCWW                         15.0        21.0       25.0              23.7                     23.3
AhL. LITER&M RATE C)               19.5t1     30.0       47.1              37.1                     43.3
?ASsEMR CAPSJTUOUS   POp            7.9        8.5        7.72c            18.8                     28.0
ADM R=rIvDsITUsm  par               7.0   -   44.5       32.-              97.8                    138.1
IV REcuwS/Tl0AM  Fop               0.3/f       1.4        3.9              18.6                    45.6
1 1 SPID=A1y Comm
r            CINOCADOW
PER MISA3D   IOPULAIOS            11.2       13.8        9.7              18.2                     31.0
CNDNI AJaDE AnZNUAWWCAPTTA         0.9          ..        0.4tC             0.6                      1.7
TOEgL LAB0O FORC  CTUS)          3296.0     5314.0     6147.0
ThuLz (SpEcE)                   35.6        35.4       33.5              36.1                     10.7
ACE=0I3 (PERCET)1 86.0                      82.0       78.0              36.8                     42.3
XlSTKT CPEt   N)                  5.0        7.0       10.0              17.3                     27.8
PAICPATZO  RATE (PRCM
TOTAL                            40.3       31.3       33.4              37.0                     25.6
RUE                              53.3       50.9       57.5              47.1                     45.4
P2ULC                           27.5        26.1       23.5              27.0                      5_6
ECORI DEFRCT RAO                   1.2         1.3        1.3               1.3                      1.8
1S_ DEINfaW
Pflcxr ?PlUITATE INaI
RECEnED sr
UOSST  or OM                __              20.2/.
IMlEZD  20U or BEou.DS             ..        2.67      6Q0.4.
LowEST 203 or WO   .DS            ..         3.97E      2.6.
LOMETr 402 Or UUS M.S              .        i.17        L9..
-W       r TA nr cs
ESrZWAUD ADCE PoVEmt rs
LEVEL CUS PER CIA)
nA                                                     M 3O/            534.2                    276.1
RItL                                                  1 1122.0          255.9                    177.1
ESTT2ATED RELATIV POovEzRT DCUE
LEV  CM  PE(t CAPA)
URSA,                                                 179.0/            491.tS                   500.0
RI.                                                   106 .;            I ios.o7  88.1           283.3
ZSTmAM  POr. P .MW ABSMUTE
OroY 11CUS LEVIP. (Z)
URinal                                                 tO O/ 20.0k.                               22.0
RURAL                                                  S5 .  307           .                      30.8
.~~~~~3.
NOr ATAILAULE
NC1 APFLICAILE
NOTES
-I The groap aermea for *acb kadic4tor are populattoweIghted arlthettc _a- Coer. of eatrE<. _ow the
Indicators depends on aaIlabilty of data and 1s mat mifor.l
lb  Unlea otherwime noted. -Date for 1980- rfer to any Year betwen 1959 and 1961t  -ata for 1970- betna 1969 and
1971; and darA for Peat Recent Enlct_e=  betcn 1979 and t981.
Ic  1977; td 1975: fe 1978e If 1962; j 1976: /t, intlatered. not all pructtciqg In the country: /i Urban only: Li 1974.
NaW 1983



153-4.519 1953333(344 3- s3s13.w  3333                               133 3~~~~~~:r..  3 0-   omondo1 L,s-.s   5  53-.33-  3- 53543- 33
3354.1  5343- 5113544 433."5  333  A. mwfta53   - 35553533
o33343  A313.*(33.   -'535                 5*         19 -  - 333.
3-     A 5   '3   il-l -  31333 -45-~       3333344--*41
55333   .333-J    .533333  51 Aq MT
'3334. 533 5 3-5)  55  -3.5 -a 3       r- 33 5   315 3.-3           **3   U         3            -3-33.     34433333 - olo33535 .3s4    34  31
333   3  55  19333  5) 35453oo 3194   L35 3   s-                                            '.5su33dd 33*..ff    TMU  J. .a133344  -  .3=333.
1-353 3-33    -0(333.!a -d533) 35433   35  3453            353--     1*- -32                         . P9353-      33   33            33    A3935)  d43 
1- *   3- 5553 - (33-         iso4 13) 3.-U  3.-U3 ---533  *33-ft  19333                     333-191AFm   .m  B. 1935. 1-.  -  5       5  44  34*1U33333
3- '*3U  L3.d z* -s-s 434.14. 3.1- 353-12.33533   l3133  51   5s3  1                                             Uq    (z3s3         ....U*.S355~l
-   2.34 3                      ft32333-in513--J
U53553319                            *3335m 1333   M  *M   3333*3  .5  313   35  333
35 13344 0  3-3.43-   53344  ? 35454 *1334d D  1.531  *!53.3d      53        "Ss45 3 - 33&M`l323   5333 33q  34n3U  UT *343.L Mm 5-3 454
-'3   33-3- 554  -                   "-3-                  193 UT MA AR 3-5545  533   -a3 -,I          5  -3 34344 335- J.
V  *3-43CT M3531 3- 5533.A33   33 3. 5334533    -9.4 &35333_                            mm-32 CU 3- 33-34  33353 3.   f9 (1 S. 5353 -M. A19~343
3345 35333-13434  M.Z  -  19.4  33  --a  *UT55 3l 3- '0111 'Cmi                                  3-%  '51UT4  3-3- 19 533-U  mmoas 03 qv.3 55a.        53 
U*3513344  3-  313 3 a-   -33.        -3-  P- *3- -153-  S. P.5.33-  3-3- a- 3--S cc P- Am  W 354 53UT3                               -  a5.34 3-43 at   ...
s 31343334-  35  3         3 "I'  333  - (3- 4    343 3-343334-                       3-UU -3 1953.55  3-3    145 3Mpq-      A"35 334 3--a9*4
me -53-4visam                             -qS~'333                               --33-v5 .15   434 3. 3533.333 P-  ILM t -   -3   334   .  4.  343.5
Mt3 '5443 -193  15U  3. *352..3344  -9 3  - 343    33331   -                                                      -T5P G3MT l3- Wfi! *(      1 3.4. 1319*19 
353454333-  3-13343       .332 1  'IN.   3 S 3q- 3                                    33355-J 33        al 3533 - '-5534 3. 3.3-41.331  3-  3- o
-mO" 13433  DM3 'DUS  33a353 3335 -    53I 4 E J.    14344  35 35!                      31      Aw  V3553U    --53-4- 5 151331335  51331  P3- Aml433
3o -353-% '*4353.             -SU5  UT      ---WI -                                 Tommom-a3 -P- 3333II5353345  -  P-   OVA Aq 1343-35 5-  . ....15van
-'P5 33.  3-Tm3"   355334  353   -WI -T--A  I-S(             l "-333A                           '3313355  ----I 3- '33344   -53319                   313331
*UT353M!  - 3~: 41 ? TU3dd3                     %19-   3-q 35- -19-1..51T"- we   U33w UT -ft3  3-  UT3d-
P-A"~~~~~~                  353   -  -04A53         (5-M1 3534  3.334  ,*u3    -54  33.3 -  9
3. 3  MT- 153-- 35.3 343 .3334 3 ~   ~     .ss~               2'.  1.3 AQ36T '90.336   l3gl    -     UT.5s P..L   ss~5 .-5) 
~~   ~       ~                 5413445       J3~~~3.p19 .34                 3 .195 "Im- 31. 35133-19      d 'U21lft  19C)JIS  -5 -53514  13355
--l-               fttp-n-T --" -34  an13P15PT- .344,43553-3   " -   -  lqp   353 USC 455- -. 3                                          313-33
*33335  UT  53.-3ff s53.!34-           53'3513  35!33'  -,1                     53P- ol-A3  A-U33.%"      omt.awooc -3      ..'51     -  .3355-09  1
UT 3!3-45 335    513  - 32   -I. - 3154 P41 all3 54334'M  T2
3-4ft-o4-  19-.53*                 33333   331  T3-T                              3333   933 a-(3313 14-                         *53453- 23-jd *j).
*3453 35 33335435353  3- 54   UT 3-  33  T 543533- 3-5Id331353
3355335 35UTUT34343. I ~   ~      V-33 m~ UT315153                          ft. dM ATi-I UT339 3.-            .-33  *).5353.  3333
5303.5    d 43     19 544L  TI -- (5UT3534433,,93.)  _433   5)195                      33334345 .-4    35.33  1               3144
'351135  *33333     UT3- 133  33-*3455              - . 433- 33C       .3533594.  3
3- 3-4519*3 3-5   3331.34   533333333335                                                                                4535   -01    U1.-3355
-oo4. 3-33T-  !."  33555I                                                                                                                                -lint 9319   3355     3531  *3335    4~*    (5-T34  43  33  0
J.  ~ -Ilomd 7-11    3.33433-M  9!                                a]-91          '3335 35-  'DM3  053.- 335 333444 33
-a oom~~~aooms P  -ST2 TV   mos,53335  -.                                        3443- -43A   533         (-        4-3 UT*SI  53415mma   193
'3355 3- 54354 1 1935 3-353344 31319 13303  9 3-3343344.                        *F.0    3-j 0-05  *UDS  M3   -533344
3. (.54   -3-33195) 41319.539?!   (333444  335 43333  3199  5533  S 3334 33532!    -3-   -(353444)553  3-3   3-Td-3
'33343 2.11944353           -"-*33.P--W-D( -3-* '01.4303   ....C6 .a5 3533343 %.-
5354 193 33 5319339! 33 53~~~~~~~ 5 1953335  ~~~~    ~   3- 333344    ~~~~535 35333 33.3353 3333- 33    - 193.3 - (33334343 3319 53.334 3313333453~~~~~~~~~~-P  p
C-t- ~    ~    13133        -313-3   3440               .   l,.334453332334       33   -  44  U   9334-'331
'1991-  33 d3-                    3-o334W64333   3455     -19 cI 2qc - 151333513  1   ~5
3-   5553433433 1335 19 3331 3 4. 3  19 333.355-3344                                    'T33  DM  3-      I --13 '3
3E 3-313343533 35151531 319333433  133513-55 '3344.32 535.4344  35 (.333)319 aD?) 33-3-15  3.555 344 53133)4444 33.4.0133
34~  03 1.335351..33.5535354.5 33335-  A31535133535                                                                   3545  .33353I 33333
3-   .5s     *4-443. 93333  333)31  33  193(915534                          .4330535 MT -3- d'0333 30 11 v- 35L13344 lmT 3. T-1.
,-ft3 1935. 33UT353 -53543   -3'                      -     mm"14                    3.03        axi -ow553.145  3-  3-  5  345 -133514   -53 333
31335  qm 3-5153 po-35  33333343   1953- T 33                                          -33     3-       A3333
ammmm~Jlp -Jpn"Cv  wq --                 -33, MT 339- -4354533193 U  -1 oUT 3333-3P     o3lsm
'33l3o."- .33-I A-,35333          ft3-v-313.ps  .a 35- 3                 9.T4-3.3-(4          3- np53  33343-  313.55  3333
44513.34 534.433  35333 3 333345. 33533131-35313.433            3.5 435319, omazo-s1935       is 3-333333.    -   -53d.334 M53
- 3353-319 35UT (33333-3. 3343) 3333351  33534.31.5334 -  333  53-319  353153 - 3113  5   -10333
'54444 193433-35               53535na   -345   AT43   34334333   535-33*3
1-  p- --%'3343-  333im3!.  - 03-319  93                                            31333P. 3-n  --M5~   31M   3- p     3-ftar05A;s3 "-44435
51-35   93-3-a5-  53933335 -55'1w    3331933-                                   DM3 3    M93  -3-3335(A44 3-331444-...V p.-           -     -
= r3443.13-mm33 5 3453 353. 11531o sio455a2 S19Samoa- 533553-T--T
-Tv-  -fft=             3- =-36                                                    --~~~..3s344  3349!3-   53331 -" (3331  33343  3333.3I
-.3- 19 5*- -a An 335.1315 51323-331*9
3-    '~   ~~       ~~ -     -ft"'llumo  7"3m 'J35 ft   '=o  ' 13-33               3351-3  W-5     3- 34 33333  '3 3543 T 3 .-.                  T. 333 31 P3333*.34
393-  3          -o--) m534 -aU 3-5S3  *11- .ffv34  3-543'-353%33                           33333      55             '-333   -23.444  '-T sP-1  T34 A.3*3-3 A 33
3-: 533-3-          "L'3351    M"5343 353--- '1P9193333 3353333453413LZAL74
3354332134135l13" 5034   313353 I3..*    V454-   3355 oa   3- '353533   D1'M
l"Pl-51535        m9-n- -35334n3n-33535-35343      -4455311.3115-3                          3(31   5-433153-543    519                  -    -P35353   3
33-" T33314.1  5533333- 3-    ov-idlow534  3- 313 m4 3 533333                              '3.334 319-d   134333333--MfvTf     5R33454344 40-  3V14    43
'33    ol33-3533               '3351 %3.333  5)  T431  -"-  3-433 3- 3334   I.....
331314.44  . 33- *31.343   3.353453-                                                'owl53  .153-3v-3.133.-5                          '5355DM1 3-033L.
3-Mma33353. 453   As-3533333343193         v- -               19  33  MT 353353-  -1 33."*333-5533534.19   '4555333311- 3 550545533533535333-33
vmoo33- T3333  53311333 P3 31. 3- .P3 as 35313333315  3-   -ma-   WuMmo 343433191 M        3.5    ..13-3  3. 5545533    o 3-  453  '313319  319333  3335- 335 55
--P      5.33.43533  .5-3   33-1.33- 3)1.~ 3-MA- 533355 p53434 33-33 53P53                         . 53-433    333  Q30    -3 54 15.  -3  -"-3- *43-33 33
3-  5 43423 3- -93  -3          334.3   39213 333353  533.453  3433a- - C: 3- 3333 3313 -   3.  332 333335MT()54431433551
Allo-sumaosx o  amo As A-0x-wvv   - mo. '3.34as3-553q 3    33-3555 35(3  5333 4141.33  '53-3 333All                    '35 3335   .         3333
31iV1IVAV AdO9ll 14398.



5LSI COPY AVAILABLE
-26 -                                                 *IW 4
WftrSI986UC3Suim
c   - C      -
1.~t   1- 17a 1   (l)
(o.111m OM Mt                        37      379      80      31 
-wm 9c(~)          3976                                                   __ m  i   mr
QrAtr a
cm= dmdtc Po&wt at mp.6_92.2                q                   S
D363             1a     10.0      4.2    -1.0   -1.2       6.2       4.0
bz*inxy                          1~A             -0.4      m1    10        6.      3.           -3.3
5ero                             V73W9            6.1      5.8     74.      7.5     .7       4.5       3.0
cGn1i                                 sl362            -3.5     7.9     153      6.6     23       3.5      -2.3
imastmmc                         32.o            120      3.9    3=9    -2.        17.3   -12.7       -2.8
zmgs ofS                              310.5             6.3     56    -4.3      4.3      5.2    -4.0       -3.9
ripo(M Ea5.8                                          -2.7    18.3      3.6    -19.8    8.9    -57        -17.6
Qum ffLiWul S~                         "51             0.0    61.6   -27.    -27.1    66         U1.        8.7
Prie
G  d         CJX  s               1. ILo          7rz    83.6    85.7    91.9   100    92.            891.
Ee    10n)               7A.4            8.S7    8.277    7J73    7.Q5   7AM    9.          10.922
sm   f or at   IP          CZ)                      A      hml   eMM  (C)
at        Pm)                                     Cut        pe
37     39    "0    19311    Du    D115   10             D76-7     91-1      3D348       31590
rw dwomd  o              2=    IM        Bo      MD            me  ICo              67        33         4.6         5.0
-m ~                3S.4    31.3    3.5   32.      3.5    3k    3L1            L2        3.6         is         3.9
20.7    2.1   21.S   2I6        .    203   21.1           6.2       2.          5.1        19
stv4z=                   0.9    3R.6    65.7   45.5   454    45.9   6.7            5.6       3.5         5 3        5.6
GNWAptf--815    862    85.3   JL2    VA.6                               76.1         63        & s        4.          6.3
ib                        3.3     22.m 257B 2W  169    35  1A    21.7   2.            .6       3.0        54         5 l
R--* aS                   37    35    3.3   il6 t          .6   219   2%'            2.7       1-         5b          5
_53 GuS                   0.      3ZA    40.5   31.8   25.6   253   Z.               -                    3a          3.3
_m,     1mi S~            16.5    1t.    12ml    13J    16.C   16.7                  C..6      )          6.8        86
4 -w-     -NIF -it
Faux Far C1
_                                    16.0   217    s1    116    2L.7
--m                                         16.3   2Z'    %Z-.    21.    2L.3
Sinpl a   cc didt -)                         It      2       1. '6  0.7     L5
tw-    _oa-                                  6.t    9.7    $LI    UL        89
41p fIy                                      2.0      .2    5.A     6s    3.7
0m -
GU sah   CZ)                            6.9           3.           4.6          5.0
P  cbt             u< mm                 1.0         -0.7          0as           1L2
1 catmCS                                 69            20Z 2.8                   3.0
mm7.8                                                  6.A         67           6.3
I _       _-   -                         0.m 0w31                   Q.*          063
Zd_c .mtly                              -0.           -0.1          0.8          0.7
2ah                           a    ef       mm
_70        175 7S      10     ____          (5      D       1970
D l tw  1
62.7        L7       468       23.5        27D      3L9    0C0 a8                   1.3
PHRUT                    16.6       11.5        -      767         72.5        -      0.8          3.0       -
W_ECOMMM          O        .6       3.0         -       1.I         2.9        -      0.           0.6        -
7.ts                      75A        66.2        A6      16.9        23.8   U .        2.8          8.1       19.6
af Pmtlin.                                                                                                      N  183
I                       at fctr           an   t o              m of  t          t     , 
rf  gmc  coaw 1b



ST COPY AVAILABLE                                                 -27-
page 5
Eap :atim     16.467 111i1 (1981)
QP Per  Gpi= USS430 (1981)
-K -    DWE
TidiCmtar                                  1980
Ammt               AAmal GEmtb Paw (Z) aI/
(millio US$ at                 ktulProjee
ctESnt      )   1976  1977  197    17    1980    M1    1982   1583   1984           85   1990
EX&WL 7WE
Ikeclmsiue ~aets                          1247.2       6.4   4.0  -7.7   -2.1    3.2   -2.9    -2.1    0.2    4.1    4.1    5.6
Priiinzy Pb                             963.4       12.4   9.0  -3.7    4.8   -7.3   -2.9    -o0   a0           4.3    4.3    5.4
Ibimfactur ~                2B33.8       0.4  -5.4 -18.6   -3.1   3.6   -2.6    -6.0    5.0    3.0    3.0    6.5
!krdwuflaciqNxts                         2612.2       -3.8  22.0  16.4  -18.3   14.7  -16.6   -19.0  -0.5    4.1    4.8    3.2
Food /d                                 111.2        5.3   3.0  70.0  -19.2    7.6  -13.0  -25.0  -10.0    1.5    1.2    1.0
Petmim nole                             778.6       -6.3   4.0   2.9    0.9   16J   -16.7   -19.0  -3.0    2.0    2.0    3.0
Add      a  e*qudp4 tf                  ASA.4      -16.7  36.0  29.4  -28.4   19.0  -22.0   -10.0   -0.8    6.2    4.5    4.1
Otbhr                                   1016.0       -      -     -       -      -      -3.0  -24.1    2.6    4.3    7.2    2.9
E m i h                                       73.2 102.8  81.Z   83.7   l00.0   89.9    87.6   89.1   95.2  101.7  144.8
Za priee i                                          65.2  69.6  6B.7   76.8  LO0.0  102.5   101.1  100.9  1(9.8  118.4  165.5
Term of t     ide                                   112.3 147.8  118.2  l1B.9  100.0   87.7    86.6   88.3   86J    85.9   87.5
q mitim  of hqrdw&a  bade CZ)                   Amrage Anml lucr          CZ)
(at casteg 1960 pres)
1974   1979  1981  1982   1983  1565   1990    1974-79   1981-86   D9B3-  1B585-90
Fdz.ry                                 71.0   83.0  82.6  83.7   82.9  83.3   83.0          2.1       2.5        4.8       5.3
:ffacttres Ic                           39.0   17.0  17.4  16.3   17.1  16.7   17.0    -11.3           1.9       4.3       5.7
Food                                    6.6    5.3   4.4   4.1    3.7   3.5    3.1    -10.4          -5.5        1.2       l.0
Petrole.                               21.2   23.7  23.5  3.5   27.7  26.5   26.0           2.8      -2.3        2.6       3.0
Mbdrury aid e7upo                       2Z.8   35.5  26.5  3.4    3.3   9.8   30.8           1.7       1.4       4.4       4.0
Otaes                                   49.4   35.5  40.6  38.0   39.2  40.2   40.1          ..        0.1       4.5       3.3
/a Hiod gwath zatr am              on 1976 prIces; projectd graah rares on 18 prie
/bX  u     a      ted qp     Ies (e 3r - 1976) of foad hue aidmls, and crud unterials
/I Eleus petrm. Pro&rs. Value of mufaCUrd eq3rLs amr deflatd by 11uterrtLal inflatim inde to arriwe at aomtat price
.eim
/d -1  an quantu lidoc (Cme yer - 1976) for SIIC 0.
Ie RBus  o *=am          (be yPa .  1976) for Srn: 3.
/f B-nd on qatum   S   (ae year - 1976) for S11C 7.
/ lm     for bstoica yms (1976-0) are bis  in 1976; tbmae for rojection yars are _.. In 1980.



- 28 -                        BEST CuPY AVAIUBLE
AMX I
Vbslat1m.    16.13  C11 Ma(6)
Ow  w   t-           (191
m -           OF Il_e,3 EO_  CP1L AU EW
cutm on at amm pc)
1976    317    313       A       l91      1911  -    |2 A/  _1_D
Lqmta of _mb ad uuiv                1134.6  1614.9  131.0   1.6   2J3L.8   17U.6   IN"    1719A            22in.1    43.6
ef'"CA" ideh:   F  f.ob.           743.9  1130.9   955.   I17.5   UU725   16.5    Ii.1 IWJ.?             131.2    2U6.4
of4dddla emawmtfm 1 .             M130L3  M139    .3L6    ZII         W 3.4   2569.0   2193.1    1.3      312.0   4117.6
of idgd: I-~aa e.L.f.              975.0  1229.0  3M75  1779.2   16.    223.1  D93.6   179.6    2118.8              3755.9
mw                                   3L3    66.5   91.1   I1O.I   U1.6    13.6           78.4    83.1       934       125.0
auz                                 43-.4    27.D5  -66.   -47.0   -.0   -0.    -4.              3W            .6       9.1
1dt    diract 1                      3.7.    5M.5 3Z.1        6.       614      60a.     60.6    64.2        n1.       96.6
I.low im(t)                          119   145.6   410.1   4125    515.3    36.3        39.3    D6.3        46L9      373.2
n      _~ral                         3.1    44J7    U.6    3.0    125.9    UO.1           1.5      1.5       1.5        1.5
aOw In m                            -5.   -2.3  -2A   -1S9    34.6    I.                -32.J     -L3      -0.1       -521
lnthrl ha_                          425    6.Z  467.4    66.3    41.5   317J            30.4    31.7        437.8         3
ra.mm       _ 40                      4.3     5.2    3.8       5.1      L9       15       2.0      2.0       1.9        1
mERIL aVM AVI M
0.i   Imau                            09   23.6   25.1    326.8   420.8  sn  .
cmf=   pita                         IN     2-L        u      MA       -4       -7
0omenload 1        ~                63.3   6W7   145    16S.9  D9.6    138
46.1   33.7   5460       4.0    81.2   103.L
GM                                -    -    -    -    -                      9.9
Mt                                136    17.7    163      21.5    71.6    14.8
OtIur                              3.6    133    342      34.4    26.8      3.0
_I_ =        dl117.6   166.8   30.6    DR.8   26I.2    43.6
*fida1 on,t ".dtt                 18.8    11.0    1.6      8.5    10.1      1
-m                                66.7    3      42.3    356.7      0.0    62.4
trn Ef[-'/ C                       2.1    U.S    7.6         8     ZL.0       3
p.-cze                            30.0  110.6   13.L   176.    170.0    20.2
hctml mt
kIt ata~113 ad d'  em            700B8  917.Z  137   14102   174           Z6
(~ftda1                        613.2   70.6   792.8    779.6   176   1W2.6
.ttuata                         95.6  2W6   2JO9    45.6   564.2   104.0
nhdia~mt d<                      63.1   78U    1It.6   122.    1D365   12.2
kIt
Du1 maim.                         65.3   7466   12.6   1DI.    33.0    3139
bzzm~                           3A.5    3.6    5A        70.6   10.5   2w
Ea~mtan Zof S?                     5.7     48     7.9      7.6      9.2  D .5
8  humet -o  - am 3    (8)
t0ffldw.                           4.5    4.0    4.0       3.8      3.0      4.5
pdvma        of WV J~             7.       7.7    7.7     1         8.0    14.0
_ _l  of -3  t~)
OfficIal                          16.0   30.0    3.0      32.0    32.0      310
Prt                                9.5    1.9      3O      11.9     5.9      9.0
A Z of VAt 0
atad of 19B2
hauiyaciurf, if- aet dett
3kmtias &M 'dUds5    s
_btian idUds 10 ym                                  8.0
imu  ~eUW   f dit             SZ
imt  i   dds firm wr
of a
A  lelbdm umof VlW
r- X-Ildm MOW' vm lrAt         of 455 of EIC dat.
LUM



'tSLS CROPY AVAILABLE                                  -
- 29 -                               ANNEX II
Page I
TIlE STATUS OF BANK GROWF OftVA470M TO KhNYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1983
USS Million
Loan or                                                          Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit *    Year   Borrower    Purpose                          Bank I/  TW   LD*  Uudisbursed
Nineteen (19) Loanp and Twenty-three (23) Credits and two (2)
Third Window Loan Fully Disbursed                              281.68 15.0ri 240.04
1105       1975    Kenya       Sites and Services                8.00                   (.12
1184       1976    Kenya       Third Education                  10.00                   5.69
1304-T     1977    Xenya       Wildlife and Tourism                   17.00             5.77
1305       1977    Kenya       Rural Access Roads                4.00                   2.37
1449       1977    Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement       34.00                  24.57
750       i978    Kenya       Small Scale Industry                            10.00    6.62
1520       1978    NCC         Second Urban Water Supply        30.00                   3.19
( 791      (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                                    25.00  (12.30
(1550      (1978   (Kenya      (Second Urban                     25.00                 (25.00
797       1978    Kenya       Fourth Education                                23.00   14.02
1636       1979    Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation             72.00                   6.80a/
1637       1979    Kenya       Rural Water Supply               20.00                  19.55
858       1979    Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                  13.00   11.51
1680       1979    Kenya       Telecommunications               20.00                   3.80
1684       1979    Kenya      Highway Sector                    90.00                  43.24
914       1979    Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                  27.00   24.80
959       1980    Kenya       Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                  46.00   43.00
962       1980    Kenya       Baringo Semi-Aird Areas                          6.50    5.43
1799       1980    Kenya      Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2/                  8.59
1817       1980    IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank      30,00                  21.34
1045       1980    Kenya      Export Promotion Technical Asst.                 4.50    4.35
1051       1980    Kenya       Fisheries                                       10.00    9.98
1107       1981    Kenya      Fifth Education                 -               40.00   39.34
1976       1981    Kenya      Railway                           58.00                  39.13
(1143      (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture                              10.00    8.85
(1995      (1981   (Kenya      (Fourth Agriculture               25.00                  25.00
2065       1982    Kenya       Petroleum Exploration             4.00                   1.64
(2098      (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III 4/                   21.50                 21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya      (Forestry III                                    16.00   16.00
1237       l982    Kenya      Cotton Proc. & Marketing 4/                     22.00   21.94
1238       1982    Kenya       Integrated Rural Health &                       -
Family Planning 4/                            23.00   22.48
2155       1982    Kenya      Second Telecommunications         44.70                  35.56
(2190      (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment         60.90                  50.00
(1276      (1983   (Kenya      (Second Struc. Adjustment 4/                    70.00    2.40
1277       1983    Kenya      Agric. Technical Assistance 4/                    6.00.   5.19
2237       1983    Kenya       Olkaria Geothermal Expansion3/  12.00   -        -      12.00
1387       1983    Kenya       National Extension 3/4/                         15.00   15.00
(2319      (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns                   7.00                   7.00
(1390      (1983    Kenya      (Secondary Towns 3/4/                            15.00   15.00
Total                           947.78 32.00  607.04  640.07
of which has been repaid        74.62   -       4.23
Total now outstanding           873.16 32.00  602.81
Amount sold                11.81
of which has been repaid 11.81   .00
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA             873.16 32.00  602.81
TOTAL undisbursed                          356.09  5.77  278.21  640.07
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ IDA-6 Credit amounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
ai  US$58.0 million cancelled.



3LST COPY AVAILABLE
- 30 _
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Summ_ry Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of September 30, 1983
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank 1/   Undisbursed
-US$ uilUon-
Nine loans fully disbursed                            228.93
1204-EA    1976    EADB        Second Dev. Finance   14.10          0.90
Total                                             243.03          0.90
of which has been repaid                          82.30
Total now outstanding                             160.73
Amount sold                             24.36
of which has been repaid              24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                            160.73
Total undisbursed                                    0.90        0.90
I/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page3
C. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
September 30, 1983
Fiscal Year    Obligor                      Type of Business          Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
- 1967, 1968,
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels                      5.2     0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977, 1979
and 1981       Pan African Paper Mills      Pulp and Paper             22.2     6.3     28.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                    Hotels                      2.4      -        2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.  Textiles                     6.3     2.8       9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. Capital Market               2.0      -        2.0
1980           Development Finance
Company of Kenya Ltd.      Development Finance          -      1.3       1.3
1981           Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market      5.0       -       5.0
1982           Bamburi Portland            Cement & Construction
Cement Co., Ltd.            Material                   4.4      -        4.4
1982           Diamond Trust of Kenya
Limited                    Money & Capital Market       -      0.8      0.8
1982           Industrial Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.      Money & Capital Market       -      0.6      0.6
1983           Tetra Pak Converters
Limited                    Pulp & Paper Products       2.2     0.3      2.5
Total Gross Commitments                                49.7    12.8      62.5
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                             17.6     1.8      19.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC                      32.1    11.0      43.1
Total Undisbursed                                       6.1     0.4       6.5



- 32 -                    ANNEX III
KENYA
Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:                  45 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           TARDA with
assistance from
external consultants
(c) First Bank mission to review
project:                                 September 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          November 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              October 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness;           April 1984
Section II: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  A condition of effectiveness would be that the lease
agreement between TARDA and KP&L would have been signed
(para. 60 and Section 7.01(a), Loan Agreement).
(b)  A condition of effectiveness would be the receipt of
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the conditions
of effectiveness of the other external financing
sources have been met (para. 63 and Section 7.01(b),
Loan Agreement).
(c)  A condition of effectiveness would be that the
Government has executed an agreement with TARDA to
onlend or make available the funds provided under the
project (para. 63, and Section 7.01(c), Loan
Agreement).



I B RD 17029
36                                                                     40                    FEoRUARY  tg8
I                                              K E  N  Y  A
S U D A N                   t                        KIAMJERE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
/                          ' 
t                        N            Lodwar\                                                                                                    /-
' T ' hE1 Mol Camp                                                                  (
4S          )        '                                                                                                    j
Mmawbit
C,        /                                                                    '-.                                        j    4<
11  A
J   Kitl                                                                         OHabH in                          j
Thtoror                     R  IF        T
o  j  ~~~~~~~3arndbach-_                                        - 
OE-ldo't  oKaKarnet iw
/  ao          f  ~~~~V A L L_ E Y                        olioj 2_
Oe   e o  O    J                     Oe hnVALLEYOlsiolo
0>   Mesefo -               Md                       !NanyuIci   0Mana                       - ._                                              
K t          l  XEIbgMoaio             o   MOUNT KENYA
'  (      ho'~~ Elburgono  A'  Okalari 
Naku N,           *           IGr-d Fal       G riu a
..i )~~~~~oma    ~~L~~in                         (0ErnPOJEC
A  lOs.i         Gilil0     Minga       ~~~~tGitani   Kirndanima
Olkanao         Warjiii@Tru
Narok ana  vat        -
x,.  s9ari W  f'S r E R N'\          N.vi~                        MasgKmbua nu\
',              .                 *A~~~~~~~~~~~~Os   A-Ii
i Ngong       NAIROBI  >     o irui
N A I R O B I    Mehakos                                           NoHala
ot\ ', \d  Kapado K_
-4                                                                                               Lan
-,< Project Pwer                                                                -Mra IL
_1116~  Project Power Station and Line
A       Diesel Power Stations                             , T s       iuo                                               G
*       Steam  Power Stations                                  T                                                      0sav -  ' -'
*       I4ydoro Power Stations                          )  Wundanvi,   Voi              q C:Malind
*        Hydro Power Stations (Fut-ire)
-0----..   220 kV Tronsmission line(Un4er Constructi.n) n) ..iwea.se.. ...*
- *----*.-   132 kV Transmission line(Under Construction)         u I.einI 
132 kV Transmission line(Existing)                                      MarikaknieA              t?               3          4
66 kV Transmission ond d.stribution lines    ", ,ft.        K.-''           a        MonIbm
-.    33 hV Distribution lines                      *                     N.          J
!      20    W 20 *o     0s  so  tODUI.,                                                   s 
_  ,<  ! ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.



