Documeut Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
tpnt  No. 12484
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
KLAMBERE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2359-KE)
NOVEMBER 16, 1993
FILE COPY
Report No:         12484
Type: PCR
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current        SAR
January 1993  March 1984
Ngultrum (Nu)     =            US$0.036       US$0.10
US$1                           N Nu 28.0      Nu 10.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)               -           0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                    =           1.09 yards
1 square kilometer (km2)       =           100 hectares (ha)
1 hectare (ha)                 =           10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (m3)             =           35.32 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 cubic meter                  =           28.28 cubic feet  (for true
board measurement)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC   -     Annual Allowable Cut
ADB   -     Asian Development Bank
BCCL  -     Bhutan Calcium Carbide Limited
BLC   -     Bhutan Logging Corporation
DCA   -     Development Credit Agreement
DOF   -     Department of Forestry
of the Ministry of Agriculture
ERR   -     Economic Rate of Return
FAO   -     Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP   -     Gross Domestic Product
GEP   -     Global Environment Facility
IRR   -     Internal Rate of Return
LCB   -     Local Competitive Bidding
MOA   -     Ministry of Agriculture
Nu    -     Ngultrum
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
RGOB  -     Royal Government of Bhutan
SAR   -     Staff Appraisal Report
TCP   -     Technical Cooperation Program
UNDP  -     United Nations Development Program
BHUTAN - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
flce of Dlrector-Ceneral
Operations Eva.uation
November 16, 1993
MEIORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Kenya
Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Prolect (Loan 2359-RE)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Kenya - Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project (Loan 2359-KE) prepared by the Africa Regional
office. No Part II was provided by the Borrower.
Physical implementation of the project was achieved without delays
and at a cost of about 72 lower than estimated. The Bank was the main co-
financier, contributing about 24% of the final project cost and played a
catalytic role for obtaining additional funding from ADB, SFD, CIDA, KfW, BITS,
ODA and the Yugoslav Bank.
The project's success in reducing Kenya's dependence on imported oil
is marred by the lack of institutional development and a poor performance with
respect to cost recovery. Further, resettlement was not included as a project
component nor identified as an issue by Bank supervision. As a result, people
displaced by reservoir impoundment -- 4,500 persons according to the Tana River
Development Authority (TARDA), 7,500 persons according to a Bank consultant --
were paid monetary compensation only.
Overall, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory and
institutional development as negligible.   Its sustainability is rated as
uncertain as long as low electricity tariffs and uncertainty about who owns the
assets and liabilities of the Kiambere plant impede cost recovery by either TARDA
or the Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC).
The PCR provides a frank and informative account of project
performance but does not contain comments by cofinanciers. No audit is planned.
I    This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mey not otherwise be disclosed without Uorld Bank autherfzation.I



FOR omcia  USE (ONLY
RENYA
KIAMBlBE HYDROELECTrIC POWER PROJECr
LOAN 2359 KE
PROJECr COMLETION REPORT
Table of COntents
PREFACE                                                              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                   ii
PART I:. PROJECr REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                                               1
Background                                                     1
Proect Objectives and Description                              3
Project Design and Organization                                4
Project Implementation                                         5
Project Results                                                7
Project Sustainability                                        10
Bank Performance                                              10
Borrower Performance                                          12
Project Relationships                                         13
Consulting Services                                           13
Lessons Learned                                               14
PART II: PROJECI REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    15
(not available)
PART IIL: PROJECT PROFILE
Related Bank Loans and Credits                                16
Project rTmetable                                             17
Loan Disbursements                                            18
Project Implementation                                        19
Project Costs                                                 20
Project Financing                                             21
Project Results                                               22
Status of Covenants                                           23
Use of Bank Resources                                         24
This document hu a restricted distibution and may be uied by recipiens only in the performane
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be dbclosed without World Bank authodzaion.



-1-
KENYA
KIA1MBERE HYDROELECTIRC POWER PROJECr
LAN 2359-KE
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for Kenya's Kiambere Hydroelectric
Project, for which Loan 2359-KE in the amount of US$95 million was approved on December
6,1983. In October 1989 US$15 million were canceled and in January 1990 US$1 million was
anceled. The loan closed on June 30, 1992.
2     Parts I and m were prepared by the World Bank, and submitted to the Tana and Athi
River Development Authority (TARDA) for comment and the preparation of Part 11, and
to the Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) for comment.



KENYA
C[AMBERB HYDROELECIRIC POWE  PROJECT
LOAN 2359KLB
PROJECr COMPLUT1ON REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Prjec object   amd desciption
1.    The objective of the project was to reduce Kenya's dependence on himported oil, and
to increase the power generation of the Kenyan system, at least economic cost, by adding a
new, and fifth, hydroelectic power station on the Tana rrier, wnth the least envionmental
impact reasonably possible.
2.    The project consists of a 110 m high main dam and a 40 m high saddle dam, an
underground power station housing two 75 MW turbine generators, an outdoor switching
station, and 220 kV transmission lines to connect the plant to Kenya's grid.
Pwject suhs,
3.    The project was completed ahead of time, and below the estimated cost. Specifically,
the second of the turbine generator units, to be installed, was commissioned in February 1988,
about six months prior to the schedule identified at the time of appraisal, and the final cost
of the project (US$269 mfllion excluding interest during construction) was 86% of that
estimated at appraisal.
4.    Fnancing was provided by IBRD (US$79 mfllion), the African Development Bank
(US$19 million), the Saudi Fund for Development (US$8 million), Canada (US$36 milior),
KfW (US$51 mfllion), Sweden (US$63 million), United Kingdom (US$20 million), Yugoslav
Bank (US$11 million) and Kenya (US$43 million).
5.    Two issues detract from an otherwise very successful project. The resettlement of
some of those displaced by the project was not adequately dealt with, and the electricity tariffs
remain well below the long run marginal cost of production.
conduons
6.   Implementation of the project is judged to be successf  with an acceptable level of
net benefits, and excellent sustainability.
7.    Under the present mandatory requirements for the environmental assessment of
hydroelectric project the oversight, which led to the resettlement inadequacies could no
longer occur. A sector dialogue linked to sector or macroeconomic incentives would have
been apprpriate to help resolve some of the institutional and financial asnects which have
been a problem in the Kenya power subsector.



KENYA - KLAMBERE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT (Loan 2359-KE)
Africa Region - Project Completion Report - Part I
1.      rroject Identity
1.1.    With a capacity of 140 MW the Kiambere hydroelectric scheme is the second largest
power plant in Kenya. It is located on the Tana river in a semi-arid area 150 km r'orth-west of
Nairobi. Kiambere is the latest of a string of five plants regulated by the Masinga reservoir,
which is near the headwaters of the Tana river. Feasibility and engineering studies began in
1979, construction started in 1984 and was successfully completed in 1988. The plant is
operating satisfactorily.
1.2.    The owner of the plant is TARDA, the Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority,
a state owned regional authority charged since 1974 with planning and maintaining development
projects in the Tana and Athi river bLins. The operator and lessee of the plant is KPLC, the
Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited, a private corporation controlled, but not fully
owned (60 percent) by the state, who transmits and distributes electricity throughout Kenya.
2.      Background
2.1.    Sector development objectives: Kenya has one of the better developed power sectors
in Africa, and the consumption of electricity (130 kWh per capita per year), while modest by
industrial country standards, is higher than in many other African countries. When the Kiambere
project was appraised in 1982 the demand for electricity was forecast to grow at 6 percent per
year, a figure that is borne out by the statistics of the last 10 years. To support this grou^ :I the
Kenyan authorities have pursued a program of developing the domestic energy resources, both
hydro and geothermal. The World Bank has supported this effort with several loans and credits,
see part III, Table l.  It has been Government policy that the electric power sector should
expand its production by developing mainly domestic resources within the limits of the financial
support it can marshall from foreign lenders and donors.
2.2.    Context: As the number of users expands and demand grows, so do the financial
requirements of the sector. Costs are slowly but surely on the increase. Most of the less
expensive hydro sites are now developed, and generally only the less favorable ones remain for
future investments. Most of the people close to KPLC's system are connected, but the people
in more distant locations which are more costly to serve demand e'ectricity as well. The quantity
of external concessional financing is finite, and so are the possible resources from the treasury.
The ever-increasing remainder of the investment must be provided by the users themselves,
through higher tariffs, which are unpopular; and, tariffs have surfaced consistently as an issue
during the course of this project.
2.3.    Linkages: The contribution to electricity projects of funds from government sources
has been modest. For this project the Government provided no financing. Government's
contribution consisted of th& amount of notional duties and taxes t'lat might have been due on the
import of goods and services. A part of the local fiuds was supplied directly by KPLC to
TARDA. Foreign inflation had a modest impact. It was zero between 1983 and 1985, the crucial
years for this project's procurement; it began rising only in 1986; the exchange rate of the Kenya
shilling to the foreign currencies increased in line with inflation. Since a large part of the project
had been financed with foreign currency, its cost did not strain the local resources at that time.
The Government was acutely aware of the advantages of foreiEn financing, and managed to



2
attract a number of concessional lenders in addition to the World Bank. Much effort and skill
was devoted by the s x:o  ntkx,ities to qpromote and fiance this project, and their success was
remarkable. The 2anks team was inmtrumenal in providing support and leadership at the
Donors' meetings. Given th- conv.qrion at the political level that the domestic hydro and
geothermal resources must be developed in preference to other alternatives, the choice was
limited to the continued c.cade development of the Tana river, development of sites on the
Athia, Turkwell, Ewaso Ngiro, Sondo and Miriu rivers, and of the geothermal resources. The
Kiambere site on the Tana was deemed to be economically the most favorable one for the next
power plant.
2.4.    Partidpating agencdes: The Bank was the largest individual lender for the project.
Two other multilateral agencies were involved, the Arican Developmtent Bank, and the Saudi
Fund for Development. Six bilateral agencies provided tied concessional credits and grants.
These included the Yugoslav Bank for Inteonatinal Economic Cooperation, and the national
development agencies of Cat=s, Germnmy, Sweden (BITS and SIDA), and the United Kingdom.
This fimding arrang.ment iraJe the tetal fmancing package attractive and helped ensure the
success of the project.
2.5.    The financing plan at appraisal is shown below, along with the amounts acually
disbursed by each agency.
,andg Plan
(US$ million)
Plan at                    As
Financing agency                           appraisal               disbursed'4
IBRD                                 95.0                    79.0
African Development Bank             21.7                     18.9
Saudi Pund for Development           11.5                     8.3
Multilateral agcies subtl                   128.2                    106.2
CIDA (Canada)                                                36.3
KiW(Gernmy)                                                  50.6
BITS (Sweden)                                                62.6
ODA (U.K.)                                                   20.2
Yugoslav Bank                                                 11.2
Bilateral lenders subtotal                  131.3                    179.1
Government 2                         48.1                    21.5
KPLC/TARDA                           46.2                    21.5
TOTAL                                       353.8                   330.1
L 11i. amouts sauaL disbursed m therius ais oies fom ead seam of fandg bhve bn coverted into USS
at the enchae rate prevailing on Jon 30, 1992
a The Govemmt contbuion Is a notiol Snaiog ambeg the eatmmed value of imported buses and dudes not
cnflected



3
2.6.    The flnancing plan indicates the amounts actually disbursed in the various currencis
from each source of funding as recorded by TARDA up to June 30, 1992, and they have been
converted into US$ at the rate of exchanrg prevailing on that date, the closing date of the B&nk
loan. The difference between the pk^-ned and the actual disbursement is due to the project
having been completed below the orig'nal cost estimate. Paragraphs 5.3 and 8.5 below discuss
possble reasons.
3.      Project Objectives and Description
3.1,    The objective of the project was to reduce Kenya's dependence on imported oil, and to
incmase the power generation of the Kenyan system, by adding a new hydro plant on the Tana
rive. This is the major river in Kenya, with ten hydro sites along its 750 meter drop btween
the Masinga dam and the plains. A string of five power plants Including Kiambere has now been
buik, and four additional sites are available, down to Korah Hills, the lowest commercially
feasible site. The reservoir at Masinga is large enough (1,500 million m!) to store sufficient
water to even out the flow between the wet and dry seasons, and thus to regulate the production
of all thc downstream power stations.
3.2.    The specific goals of the Kiaber project were to increase by 140 MW the generating
capacity of the Kenyan system, and to increase by 910 GWh (million kilowatt-hours) the energy
available during a year of average rainfall. The dry year energy production at the site was
forecast at 683 GWh. For the Kenyan system in 1983, these goals represented substandal
incrases; 25 % in MW capacity, 33 % and 22 % in the energy production during an average
an a dry year respectively.
3.3.    The main physical components of the project include:
(a)    the main dam, approximately 110 m high and 840 m long, which, together with
the saddle dam creates a reservoir of 585 million tn gross storage in the Tana
ri er valley. The dam is rock faced, zoned earth-filled with impermeable core
and gramuki shell;
(b)    the saddle dam, approximately 40 m high and 1470 m long with a fsible
plugge ' aergency spillway. This spillway has a capacity to dicharge, in two
500 m' sUages, 1,000 m'
(c)    a concrete lined free overfall side channel spillway with flip bucket. Three high
level mechanical gates are insalled in the overflow weir to maintain river flows
when the power station is rPt operating and when no natural spillage is taking
place. This spillway, sited at the end of the main dam, will pass 3,600 rn
normally, and 4,500 mn at maximum dischage;
(d)    a low level outlet facility installed in one of the two diversion tunnels, to
maintain river flows when the power station is not operating and when the
reservoir level is bekw the high level mechanical gates;
(e)    water passages including a power tunnel 4,100 m long and 6.1 m in diameter,
complete with itake strucre and surge tank, and a tailrace tunnel 1400 m long
and 8.6 m high of horse-shoe shape, which discharges the flow from the
powerhouse back into the river;



4
(f)    an underground powerhouse equipped with two 75 MW turbines and 85 MVA
generators;
(g)    an outdoor rjnsforn:;r and switching station to step-up the voltage to 220 kV;
(h)    two sections of 220 LV-' high volt .pi transmission line totalling 80 kIn in length
to connect the Kiambere switchyat.. v ith the existing system of KPLC.
3.4.   The project also included three components of a managerial nature:
(g)    consulting engineering services for the technical design and supervision of the
project;
(h)    a panel of experts to supervise the consulting engineering firm, and to providi.
a s cond opinion on important technical matters; a financial expert and a
technical leader for the TARDA team charged with the implementation and
management of the project;
(i)    activities to protect the environment and to compensate displaced populations
3.5.   To ensure the financial viability of the power system the following policy component
were detailed in the SAR, agreed to at negotiation, and translated into conotactul clauses:
(a)    the aggregate of the power companies that comprise the electricity sector in
Kenya would earn a stated financial rate of return;
(b)    TARDA would submit each year the data required to make this calculation.
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.1.   By 1983 the physical components of the project were clearly defined, and had been
thoroughly preparedl. Feasibility stLdies had been completed during 1979 and 1980, and the
design was optmized and finalized by December 1981. An environmentl impact study had been
conmpleted and its main report was finalized by September 1983; ample field investigations, access
roads, and the construction workers' camp, which had been financed from TARDA's own
resources were readied in preparation for a quick start on the project. Both layout and design
were conventional and thus well proven. The scope and scale of the project were suited to the
site, and the scheme was designed to use the same flow as the other plants on the Tana river.
The timing was appropriate and all parties agreed that Kiambere was part of the least cost power
development plan at that time.
4.2.   The roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved were well defined on paper.
TARDA was to be both the owner of the project, and its executing agency. Upon completion
Kiambere would be leased to KPLC which would operate it and pay TARDA sufficient rent to
cover TAPDA's financial obligations towards its lenders, plus a contribution to TARDA towards
the project costs, the "devtlopment surcharge". Thus KPLC was the key to the financial
jusification of the project, and to the solvency of TARDA. KPLC only complied with its
commitments during the period of construction of the project upto November 1987 when it
stopped its payments to TARDA. The problems this caused are described in 6.8 below.
4.3. A discrepancy worth noting is the difference between the consultant engineer's estimate
of construction costs, and the lowest bids received, which were between 50 and 60 peMent of the



5
engineer's estimate. The Borrower and the consultant evaluated the bids very thoroughly, to
extract the maximum advantage from the concessional financing and grs  wbich were available
for some of the bids. Consequently, the contracts were awarded to the most advatages bid
when financing was taken in*; account. The aggregate of the contracts awarded was 72 percent
of the engineer's estimate, a chown -m the table below.
Comparison of engineer's estimate
wP.h flnal contract amnounts
(US$ million)
Estimate    Contract amounts
Component                              Dec. 1982       Dec. 1983
Dams                                           84.9              54.4
Tunnels                                        41.2              34.8
Powerhouse and ac'xss                          38.1              27.9
Mechanical and electrical Works                32.3              25.6
Transmission line                              9.1                6.2
Total base cost of the faclities               205.6            148.9
4.4.   The engineer's estimates were based on a rate of exchange of KSh 12.5 to the US dollar;
although by December 1983 the rate had changed to 13.8. A discussion of the causes of the
discrepancy between estimate and contract amounts follows in paragraph 8.5.
3.     ProJect Inplementation
5.1.   The physical imp     on of the project was completed on schedule. Unit number
2 was used for cowrmercial operation Irom Februay 21, 1988 and Unit number 1 from March
17, 1988. Manufacturing falts came to light in the turbine runner, but this did not cause much
loss of output because repairs and replacement operations took place mainly over weekends. The
Certificates of Completion, after taking account Use-Before-Taking-Over were, for Units 1 and
2 respectively May 18, 1988 and June 7, 1988 and the Taking Over Cetficates were respectively
dated March 24, 1989 and February 28, 1989. In summary:
(a)    the power facilities were completed on schedule im May 1988 and the costs were below
budget. Both generating units were commissioned by February 1988, although
production at full capacity was delayed one year due to having to replace and repair two
defective turbine runners;
(b)   the final cost of the project was substially lower than anticipated, and this
facter and the devalua- on of the Kenya shilling, which required a redced draw-
doi^n of the dollar loa, led to the cancellation of $16 million of the World Bank
loan amount;
(c)   the tariff issue was the subject of many discussions, reminders, and negotiations;



6
(d)   durng the disbursment period of the loan KPLC did not comply with the
financial covenant contained in the project agremet concerning rate of return,
and tariff levels. Moreover, since May 1988 KPLC has neglected to comply with
the Project Agreement to pay TARDA the amounts due for the lease of
Kiambere; and
(e)   the resettlement of the populations displaced by the project has not been exeute
in an acceptable manner.
5.2.   The physical implementation of the project proceeded as planned, without alterations in
the general layout, and without major changes in the components. Design, construction aaiC
project management were executed by a team that worked well together. No doubt this helped
maintain the schedule and helped to prevent sizeable claims by the contractors. Another reason
why the project ran on schedule and on budget was that it was amply financed, since funding,
in part, was tailored to the contract costs, and no cash flow problems arose. However, the tables
in paragraphs 4.3 and 5.2 suggest substantial contract escalations occurred between the time of
contract signing and the acual expenditures incurred.
Compjarison of apprased and actual costs
(US$ milliin)
At                      Actual
Component                      apprais                   expendtr/l
a)     Preliminary works                15.7                         10.9
b)     Dams                             62.5                         66.0
c)     Tunnels, powerhouse and access   67.5                        114.2
e)     Mechanical and electrical Works  38.4                         36.9
f)     Transmission line                 4.6                          7.0
g)     Engineering consultants          29.3                         26.5
h)     Panel of experts and team leader   1.6                         3.2
i)     Miscellaneous                     3.3                          4.4
Total base cost                        223.1                       269.1
Contingencies                    88.7                     Included above
Total project cost                     311.8                       269.1
Interest during construcon
Bank financed                    27.3                        21.2
Other sources                    13.9                        18.2
Front end fee on Bank loan               0.2                          0.2
Totl fhncing required                  353.8                       308.6
/1 The amocmts wlafly disbursed in the variour rendclss from each souse of #-Aing have been converted iho USS
at the exdne rate prevailig on June 30, 199Q
5.3. The actual total project cost; excluding interest during construction, was only 86 percent
of the original estimate. This is unmusual for a hydro project espeially considering that the Bank



7
took the precaution of finalizing the project estimate six months after the construction bids had
been received. The first cost estimaes for the project were prepared in 1979, and they were
revised periodically up to 1983, during the period just after the second oil crisis of 1979/80,
when inflation rates were high and were expected to remain so. Every time the costs were
recalculated, the total increased until it exceeded $500 million. The files indicate that both the
borrower and the Bank were :oncernt.J by this. A firm of consulting engineers was called in to
review the costs; and their D)cember ')82 report confimed the estimate. A second opinion by
another cost estinator reconfirmed it three months later, and even increased it by a few
percentage points. Yet when tenders were opened in May 1983, the low bids were almost half
of the engineers' estimates. Paragraph 8.5 below discusses possible reasons.
5.4.   While the physical implementation proceeded without delay or difficulties, the lack of
attention to the resettlement issue at appraisal and the somewhat complicated institutional situation
in Kenya led to a substantial staff input and effort by the Bank to deal with the consequences (see
section 6 below).
6.     Project Results
6.1.   The project objectives remained unchanged during the implementation of the project.
Thorough preparatihn of the p oject's physical design (see paragraph 4.1 above) meant that the
borrower was ready to awarl the construction contracts as soon as the loan was approved.
However, the lack of attentian to social issues during project preparation and appraisal led the
borrower to implement project activities without proper resettlement planning. Project objecives
and activities should have been revised during implementation to include adequate benefits for
the affected people, but this was not done.
6.2.   The production of energy at Kiambere is expected to be - )out 790 GWh per year as a
long term average for a year with average rainfall, compared with a figure of 910 GWh per year
quoted in the SAR. In fact, the average for the first four years of operation has beea 873 GWh.
The 13 percent discrepancy between 910 and 790 GWh is not due to any shortcoming in the
design or implementation of the project, but rather to the fact that the earlier estimate was
optimistic. The 1992 National Power Development Plan has confirmed the figure of 790 GWh
as the most probable considering, among otber factors the water withdrawals from the Tana river
up to 1995, the station's own use, and the system constrains on how the station may be operated.
6.3. The economic viability of the project was confirmed with a 10.2 percent actual economic
rate of return as compared with the 10 percent forecast at the time of the SAR. The economic
rate of return of Kiambere was rclulated based on actual costs and updated production
estimate. Benefts were estimated at 5.4 US cents/kWh (the cost of producing the same amount
of electricity in a low speed diesel plant). Had the benefits been estimated using willigness to
pay deduced from actual tariffs, the rate of return would have been lower since a tarff of only
4.4 US cents/kWh was charged to the users in 1990. The economic rate of retu  for the project
would have been reduced, but by less than 1%, if the resettlement issues had been addressed to
current acceptable standards.
6.4.   The financial rate of return in the SAR had been calulated for the aggregate of the
electricity sector. In order to reconfrm whether the projected financial returs were actually
achieved, it was necessary to have consolidated financial statements for all the Power Companies.
Without such submissions, which were not required under the financial covenans, it would be
extremely difficult to calculate the financial rate of return from the individual financial saments
which were required per section 5.03,(c) of the Loan Agreement. This reflects a fault in the



8
design of the financial covenants. And, since the individual statements have not been submitted
as well, it is not possible to calculate the financial rate of return.
6.5.   Environmental Impact:  The issues related to the environment and resettlement have
been inadequately dealt with. An area of 132 square kilometers was expropriated by TARDA
for the Kiambere project. Of this 25 sq.km represent the area inundated by the reservoir, and
the remainder is a buffer zor. aroune the lake and the project facilities where settlement and
human activity are no longer :'lowed, a:nd where teforestation is being undertaken. The project
affected indirectly other area; of undetermined size where the several thousand displaced people
had to move in the administrative districts of Embu and of Kitui, which border on the Tana river
at Kiambere.
6.6.   The number of people displaced or affected by the project is not known with accuracy.
The census taken before the beginning of construction, as part of the environmental impact study,
gave about 3,000 as the number "directly affected". The SAR relied on an earlier consultant's
report that there were no permanent settlers in the reservoir area, and that only about 1000 people
lived downstream of the dam. This particular report dealt with a different project layout than
what was eventually built. While the earlier proposal included a low dam and a 4.9 km2
reservoir, the project as appraised had a still higher dam and a much larger reservoir. The
addition of an extensive "buffer zone" brought the expropriated area to a total of 132 kmi2, and
greatly increased the number Jf peoplet Jisplaced. After the filling of the reservoir began in 1987
the matter acquired some urgeqcy. lI 1988 the Bank's and TARDA's consultant estimated the
number cf persons at 7,000, v.hile 1'ARDA reports that it compensated about 4,500 claimants.
TARDA paid out KSh3 I million and feels that it has fully complied with Kenyan law, which only
requires monetary compensation. This resettlement approach was not in compliance with the
Bank's guidelines, in force at time of appraisal (OMS 2.33), and is not considered sufficient
under the Bank's current directives which require that any involuntary resettlement should be
planned with the participation of the affected people, and should ensure that their welfare is at
least not negatively affected.
6.7.   Had the presence of permanent settlers in the reservoir areas been taken into account,
the Bank's resettlement guidelines would have required having a workable resettlement plan ready
at the loan negotiation stage, and that its implementation be made part of the borrower's
obligations. The SAR notes that a detailed environmental study was underway, presumably
referring to the Pre-construct:on Envi.-onmental Impact Study. This study, the main report of
which was co)mpleted in September :983 (after negotiations but before Board presentation),
recommended cash compensaion and proposed elements of a resettlement plan  However,
neither the loan agreement, nor the agreements listed in the staff appraisal report include any
mention of resettlement activities.
6.8.   Issues relating to the Allocation of the Benefts of the Concessional Financing
Under the loan and related project agreements, the lease payments due from KPLC consist of two
components; an amount sufficient to cover TARDA's financial obligations to its lenders, and a
development surcharge to finance part of the local costs of the Kiambere project. The
justification for the latter is that the financing received by TARDA is at concessional terms to
help regional (including river) development rather than to subsidize KPLC. In any case KPLC
ceased to remit its lease payments to TARDA in May 1988, ostensibly on the grounds that
ownership of the assets had been tranm:erred to KPC by Government. This action prevented the
latter from servicing its debt to the Bauk and prevented it also from carrying out its development
programs, including any of the resettle:nent initiatives which were discussed after October 1986.
Consequently neithir KPLC nor TARDA are now in compliance with the Project Agreement nor
with the Loan Agreement, and the Kenyan Treasury as guarantor has had to step in to fulfill



9
TARDA's obligations. It has been poinated out repeatedly to the Kenyan authorities that the
ownership of assets should not be at issue here; but what should be at issue is the spirit behind
the loan agreements with the donors, which call for the benefits of the concessional loan terms
to be used for regional development. As of May 1993 no action had been taken. In the
circumstances unless the benefit of the commercial terms are passed on to TARDA, in a
transparent manner, Government will remain in violation of the legal agreements.
6.9.   Electricity Tariffs   Government has not allowed tariffs to increase to a level which
covers the cost of el& tricity supplies - tariffs have remained consistently and significantly below
the long run marg:nal cost of supplics for most of the 1980's. Indeed, the inadequacy of the
tariffs has adversely affected KPLC's ability to service its obligations to TARDA, to cover its
costs, such as the servicing of its loans, which are affected by the deteriorating exchange rate,
and to compensate for a decline of its operating efficiency. However, tariff levels have been a
continuing concern of this project. A tariff increase was agreed with the Bank in 1983 in order
to meet the rate of return requirements of the power companies. The Government authorized it
in May 1985, rescinded it in July 1986, and finally implemented an increase in January 1987.
Moreover, as discussed in para 6.4, the absence of reporting requirements for consolidated
financial statements for the power companies has made it difficult to verify compliance with rate
of return requirements. Based on the fmancial statements of KPLC, it appears that the stipulated
8% ROR for the years up to 1990/91 was probably not met. KPLC has also not been successful
in submitting its finzticial statements vwithin the agreed six months period from the end of the
Plnancial year.
6.10.  TARDA's Finances   As lesee of the Kiambere plant KPLC is committed to pay
approximately Kenyan Shillings 300 million per year plus the equivalent, in Kenyan shillings, of
US$14 million, which would be used to service the loans from IBRD and the Yugoslav bank, and
to contribute to TARDA's development budget. KPLC contributed certain amounts during the
construction period, but ceased remitting power payments since May 1988. A payment of KSh
10 million per month was resumed in February 1991. As of April 15, 1993, The TARDA
accounts showed KSh 1,616 million in accumulated receivables from KPLC for the Kiambere
project. Another KSh 476 million were due by KPLC for energy from the Masinga project.
6.11. As a consequence of the refusal of KPLC to honor these debts TARDA is now
technically insolvent. The latest available financial statements (unaudited) show that as of June
30, 1991, TARDA's liabilities exceeded its assets. These assets do not include the outstanding
amounts due by KPI C, but neither do the expenditures include adequate depreciation. TARDA
has never recorded any depreriation for Kiambere, and ceased to record depreciation for its
Masinga power project in 1988/89. The financial accounting of TARDA for the project must be
qualified as irregular.
6.12. There is a discrepancy between the KPLC accounts and those of TARDA. The Auditor
General's reports which accompany both sets of accounts do not deal with it. The TARDA
accounts are qualified for a number of reasons, including TARDA's failure to record as
receivable accrued revenues due by KPLC in the amount of KShl,165.1 million. Yet the KPLC
accounts, which do not show the full indebtedness to TARDA, are certified without
qualifications. It appears that KPLC is not in compliance with the Project Agreement of June 28,
1984, wherein it accepted a commitment to enter into a leasing agreement with TARDA. Nor
is the Government in compliance with the Guarantee Agreement of the same date wherein it
accepted to cause KPLC to carry cut its obligations under the Project Agreement. A
reconciliation of the 3ccounts 4f all rover Companies, of TARDA and of KPLC is necessary,
as well as a fundamental reconciliation of their and the Government's positions. This will require
a detailed review of the accounting conventions and practices of all the Power Companies.



10
6.13.  Project Management  The management of the physical implementation of the project
was executed satisfactorily. Being mainly an adminstrative and a planning entity TARDA hired
two expatriates to act as the key project management staff for the duration of the project. It
appears that their function was mainly administrative and of liaison and that both the construction
management and the bulk of the project management were handled by the staff of the consulting
firn. As neither they nor the consultant have issued specific activity reports, it is unclear who
performed which function. In any case there was excellent coordination between owner and
consultant and the project's physical implementation was completed successfully.
6.14.  Soclal Impact  The social impact of the project was evidently favorable for the large
consumers and for the million and a half town dwellers who are served by KPLC and who
receive the benefit of an improved supply of electricity at a price that has not increased in real
terms since 1981. The impact of the project was far less favorable for the estimated 7,000 people
who were dispossessed and/or displaced by the project (see 6.05 to 6.07 above). In 1987
TARDA, the World Bank and ODA cooperated on a resettlement survey which was led by a
Kenyan social scientist. On the basis of interviews with an estmated 15% of resettler households
and an equal number of non-resettler households, results showed the resetflers averaged a loss
of about half their land, had reduced their livestock by more than a third and had reduced access
to pasture, firewood, water and trees for building. The cash compensatdon for lost land was
inadequate for buying land in the more densely populated resettlement area where land was
scarce.
7.           Project Sustalnablity
7.1.   The project is most likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits over its
economic life.
7.2. Technical risks are remote. The engineering design has taken into account any possible
earthquake risks, and the foundation rock is of good quality, thus minimizing geological risks.
There is no indication that river flow, and siltation may cause any problems in the foreseeable
future.
7.3.   A reduction of the availability of the generating sets, and therefore of producton and of
the quality of service, is always a risk; availability depends on the quality of management at
KPLC, which is good today, and on the availability of fumds for proper maintenance. The latter
may be at risk only if the KPLC tariffs continue to remain inadequate for a period of years.
8.           Bank Performance
8.1.   The Bank was both the major lender and the coordinator and leader of the group of co-
lenders. The Bank performed both tasks efficiently regarding the physical aspects of project
implementation, as is indicated by the smooth implementation of the project. Greater emphasis
and possibly stronger action should have been requird on financial policy issues (including
tariffs). The Bank could have provided a better lead in respect of the resetement issues.
8.2.   The Bank's role as lender of last resort was evident during the early stages of project
preparation. The Kenyan prospective borrowers were firmly convinced that Kiambere was the
project to build, promoted it with determination to the prospective lenders from 1980 onwards,
and financed the preparatory work with local funds. TRDC, a predecessor agency of TARDA,
hired the engineering consultant in February 1981, called for prequalification of contracto  in
August, and had the tender documents ready by November 1982. The Bank, which had followed
the progress of the project with preparatory missions since 1980, began to study the least cost



II
issue in April 1982, held a pre-appraisal mission in August, an appraisal mission in November
1982; the tariff issue and the social and enviromental issues were raised in March 1983. By
then the project had acquired a momentum of its own, and was buoyed by the submission of
unexpectedly low bid prices, and by attractive offers of financing from a number of co-lenders.
The Bank was ready to proceed with the loan approval as soon as some agreement was reached
on the financial/tariff conditions. After six months of hesitation the Kenyans agreed to the tariff
clauses and the project was approved in November 1983.
8.3.   The appraisal process was norrnl, except that it lacked resettlement expertise and the
TOR for the appraisJ missicn 'lid not :;ention resettlement or the environment. The Bank hired
a consultant to check that Ki=nbert- vs indeed the least cost alternative, and to finalize the
economic evaluation. The main altern 4ive to Kiambere was then a coal burning steam plant; the
possible alternative of diesel generation was excluded a priori. This is noted because the latest
(1992) issue of the Kenyan power development plan recommends a diesel plant as the next
component in a least cost development sequence; and this may possibly have been true even in
1983. The overestimate of the cost of the project in the appraisal report has been discussed in
paragraph 4.05 above. The appraisal underestimated the size of the resettlement problem (see
6.6 above) by relying on unqualified opinion. Furthermore, this underestimation remained
unchanged even when the results of the environmental study became available.
8.4.   The Bank supervised the project most diligently and there were no technical or
procurement problems to speak of. Svpervision missions were undertaken frequently, see table
8 B of part III. Th. missions could ri itly charactize the project technically as a success. It
was very difficult fit the sui -rvision :iissions to solve the two major problems, the electricity
tariffs of KPLC, which was n .t the borrower, and the resettlement issue. The tariff issue was
brought up repeatedly in follow-up ccmnmunications from headquarters; the resettlement issue
was the object of a number of meetings at headquarters, and gave rise to four missions by
resettlement experts between late 1986 and 1989. In March 1990 the Bank reviewed a proposal
from TARDA for the development of the Kiambere project area to benefit the local population.
However, neither issue has been be resolved to the Bank's satisfaction, and both are pending
today.
8.5.   From the experience with these three problems the following conclusions can be drawn.
The overestimate of the cost occurred despite having excellent iformation on the cost of the
work. At 52 percent of the total, the local component should have appeared unusualy large for
the capacity of Kenyan subcontractors. Part of the overestimate has to do with including taxes
and duties which were not due because tf the type of financing selected. The price contingencies
foresaw the effect of inflation in Kenya, but did not account for a compensating variation of the
rate of exchange to the Dollar. The foreign component was basicaUy overestimated, see
paragraph 4.3; in addition the increase in value of the US dolar during the construction period
had the effect of countering any cost increases in the currency of the contractor. The rise in the
exchange of the dollar was not foreseeable by the staff. A point that deserves notice is that what
appears to be an overestimate may have been in part the result of an astute procurement policy.
The specifications were well prepared,and left little scope for doubt, and little risk for the bidder;
TARDA had made sure that bilateral financing was available from five countries, but had not
assigned any contract package a priori to any donor country. Therefore each supplier had to bid
against a number of foreign competitors, and the bilateral funds were considered only during the
bid evaluation. This produced very competitive bids, to the advantage of the project.
8.6.   The design of the tariff/rate-of-retrn covenants did not allow for easy monitoring and
corrective action. First, as mLntioned '.arlier, there were no requirements to submit consolidated
financial statenent2 for the aggregat- of the power companies making the calculation of RoR



12
difficult. Second, even if such calculations had been undertaken and Rate of Return found to be
below appraisal estimates, there were no specific tariff covenants which would have allowed the
Bank to require the initiation of corrective actions. A related issue was the lack of studies or
system of calculation to determine the tariff changes needed. Third, in addition to the general
problem with initiating tariff increases in state owned utilities, there was a specific problem in
the Kiambere case since the responsibility was divided among the agencies involved. The
borrower, TARDA, has no influence, nor is directly affected by the level of tariffs, and the utility
has little power either, since tariff decisions are a prerogative of the cabinet of ministers if not
of the president.
8.7.   The resettlement iss-.te could perhaps have been dealt with more effectively if the Bank
had not relied on a statement (which was not verified) by a power consultant chosen for his
expertise in designing structuies, but w}o neither had, nor claimed any special skill in handling
people problems. Nowadays, the Bank gives these matters a high profile and there is no reason
why they should not have been handled with the same care as other components of this hydro
project as was provided under the then current Bank guidelines. Just as it was perfectly normal
to invest huge sums in topography or in geotechnical investigations, it should have been necessary
to carry out land surveys, a census of the population and sociallethnological investigations before
reservoir constuction was considered; and the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions should have
included an expert in agricultre, or other relevant discipline to assess the problem and its
solutions so that this issue could have been dealt with fully. The environmental impact study
which dealt with the resettlement issue should not have been ignored by the Bank. Based on it,
a resettement plan should have been devised, described, and explained in detail in the appraisal
report for the resettlement and environn.antal problems just as tender specifications are prepared
and precise estimates are prod-ced for the major physical project components. The costs though
small were not negligible, and should have been treated precisely. The resettlement structures,
be these houses, schools, water projects, or roads, could have been part of one of the civil works
packages, and should have been executed at the same time. Such matters are now dealt with
more rigorously by the Bank.
9.           Borrower Performance
9.1.   The Borrower TARDA worked diligently to carry out its duties. During the project
preparation stage TARDA (and its predecessor TRDC) promoted the project energetically, rallied
an impressive list of willing donors and co-financiers, and had the benefit of a good cooperation
with KPLC. It supervised the pre-construction environmental impact study but, having sent it
to the Bank, failed to follow rp and bring its conclusions to the Bank and other donors. After
the completion of the project the relationship with KPLC became less close, possibly linked with
the fact that the two institutions were no longer under the same ministry; and in the end KPLC's
failure to make its lease payments to TARDA jeopardized TARDA's ability to function as a
development authority.
9.2.   The physical implementation of the project was well prepared thanks to the decision of
TARDA to finance feasibility and design engineering with their own resources, and to finanee
enough preparatory work. This resulted in timely preparation of tender specifications, in
sufficient detail to eliminate uncertnties, which in turn allowed to maintain the selected schedule
and to promote competition among bidders, and to achieve excellent bid prices. The procurement
was executed skillfully.
9.3.   The project management finction was entirely satisfactory, and TARDA deserves much
credit for having chosen twvo competent outside experts as leaders, and having hired a good



13
consulting engineering team for the supervision/construction management. The cost of the latter
was substantial, but the work was well executed.
9.4.   The conclusion can be drawn that even a borrower without strong background in project
management can have a project implemented well if he is prepared to chose and pay for good
managers. Another conclusion is that TARDA's regional development fction was too weak
for it to perform better than it did in relation to resettlement issues witiout reinforcement by the
donors.
10.    Project Relationship
10.1. The relationship of the Bank with the borrower was good; as the physical aspects of the
project were implemented satisfactorily, no major problems had to be solved which could have
created stresses between the Bank and the borrower. TARDA responded cooperatively to the
Bank's belated efforts on behalf of the "resettlers", but, with mixed signals from the Bank, and,
without finds, TARDA was unable to solve the problem.
10.2.  The problem of the inadequacy of KPLC's tariffs could not be solved, neither during the
implementation period nor thereafter.
10.3.  The borrower and the Bank enjoyed good relations with the other co-fmanciers, who
provided the bulk of the financing for the project.
11.    Consulting Services
11.1. The consulting firm charged with the design and supervision of the project performed
well. TARDA followed their advice and financed sufficient preliminary surfce and sub-surface
investigations which eliminated uncertinttes from the specifications, and enabled a good
mnnelling route to be chosen which probably avoided claims by the conractors. The consult
assigned a large number of staff to the job, which assured good supervision and management.
The final cost of the engineering consultants plus the cost of the panel of experts was a little on
the high side, 11 percent of the total project cost but it was probably cost efective because the
cost of the project was consideraly less tha the appraisa estimate.
11.2. The contractors performed well. Only the dam contractor needed some prodding to
ensure that the schedule was kept. The suppliers delivered and instled satisctory goods and
equipment. An initial problem was a defective turbine runner, which affected full production for
a year until it was eventually replaced.
11.3.  Local consultants were used for the environmenta impact study, funded and supervised
by TARDA. The Bank did not comment on this crucial work which, although late, was
substantially completed before the loan was approved and was satisfactory in that it contained
enough information to provide the basis of a resettlement plan.



14
12.    LESSONS LEARNED
12.1.  Experience with implementation of the Kiambere project illustrates both the strengts and
weaknesses of a 'micro" approach to project lending:
(a)   The physical aspects of the project whose implementation could
be controlled by the Borrower and their consultanuts, and
supervised by the Bank, were all successful; this included
ensuring the readiness of the project prior to Board approval and
obtsining the benefits of ICB under bilateral co-financing.
(b)   Besides being weakly prepared and appraisei. the institutional
and fnacial aspects of the project did not lend dwmselves to a
"micro-management approach" as the project investments were
too lumpy for the Bank to make effective use of remedies when
the financial covenants were breached. A sector dialogue linked
to sector or macro-economic mcentives would have been more
appropriate (it took until the 1991 mid-term review of the
geothermal project (Credit 1973) and the incentive of a possible
future major sector investment project for the Bank to credibly,
and more successfully, raise sector-wide financial and
institutional issues).
12.3.  The resettlement aspects of the project unforunately escaped the attention of those
preparing and appraising the project as well as that of those then responsible for clearing the
environmental aspects of projects. UnJer the present mandatory mquirments for environmental
assessment of all hWroelectric project; prior to appraisal, such oversights could no longer occur.
12.4.  The current World Bank-wide initiatives aimed at improving the quality of audiing are
justified by experience under this project.
12.5.  The legal structure of projects deserves considerable attenion to ensure that key
covenants are enforceable.



15
PART II - Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
No comments have been received from the Borrower.



16
XENYA - KIAMBERE HYDROELECTRIC SCHEME (Loan 2359KO)
Africa Region - Project Competion Report - Par UI
PROF:LE OF THE PROJECI
1.              Related Bank Loans or Credits
LN 745-KE of 1971        Kamburu Hydroelectric Project
TRDC (Tana River Development Co.)
US$23 million -Fully disbursed
2     LN 1147-KE of 1975        Gitaru Hydroelectric Project
TRDC
US$63 million - 573 milion disbursed
Last disbursement in 1980
3.    LN S-12-KE of 1978        Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project
,KPC (The Kenya Power Company)
US$9 million - Fully disbursed
Last disbursement in 1980 - transferred to LN 1799?
4.    LN 1799-KE of 1980        Olkaria Geothermal Power Project
iKPC
US$40 million - 387 million disbursed
Last disbursement in 1987
5.    LN 2237-KE of 1983        Geothermal Power Expansion
KPC
US$12 million - $7.5 disbursed
Last disbursement in 1987
6.    CR 1486-KE of 1984        Geothermal Exploration Project
KPLC (Kenya Power and Lighting Company)
US$24.5 million - fuly disbursed
Last disbursement in 1990
7.    CR 1973-KE of 1988        Geothermal Development and Energy Preinvestment
Project Government of Kenya - US$40.7 credit.
US$31.1 disbursed as of May 25,1993.
Credit closes June 30, 1994



17
2. Project Tebtable
Date             Date              Date
Item                                   Planned           Revised           Actual
Identification                                                                     08/04/80
Preparation                                                                        08S22/82
Appraisal Mission                                                                  11/22/82
Loan Negotiations                              05/02/83                            10/. ./83
Board Approval                                 06/22/83          11/15/83          12/06/83
Loan Signature with TARDA                                        12/22/82          06/28/84
Loan Agreement with TARDA (*)                                                      06/28/84
Loan Effectiveness                             01/07/83          09/13/84
Loan Closing                                   06/30189          06/30/90          06130192
10/31/90
06/30/91
12/31/91
Project Completion                              May 1988                           01/20/93(**)
Comments:
(*)     ne agreement ince the obligation to achieve a rate of return a rate of return of 10% for FY 1986 and 1987,
and of B % for FY 1984, 1985, 1988 and succeeding years. On October 1. 1989 $15 million were canceled,
and on Jamuy 29, 1991, $1 million of the loan amount were canceled, thus reducing the loan amount to $79
million
(5*)    The date wben the makienae period for the replcd runner for Unt 2 ended.



18
3.   Loan Disbursements
Disbursements In $ million
Loan 23S9-S E
Bank Fiscal Year          Estimated           Actual              Actual % of
and Quarter               Cumulative          CumulatIve          Estimated
1983/84      3                8                                         0
4               12                   1                     8
1984/85      1               16                  13                    81
2               24                  17                   71
3               31                 22                    71
4               37                 25                    68
1985186      1               42                  27                    64
2               47                 33                    70
3               52                 36                    69
4               57                 42                    74
1986/87      1               62                  45                    73
2               66                 52                    79
3               70                 55                    79
4               74                  59                   80
1987/88      1               78                  61                    77
2               82                 66                    81
3               86                 66                    77
4               89                 66                    75
1988/89      1               91                  67                    74
2               93                  71                   76
3               94                 73                    77
1989/90      1                -                  74                    78
2                -                  74                   78
3                -                 75                    79
4                -                  75                   79
1990/91      1                -                  78                    82
2                -                  78                   82
3                -                 78                    82
4                -                  78                   82
1991/92      1                -                  78                    82
2                -                  79                   83
On October 1, 1989 $15 million were canceed, and on Jamay 29, 1991, $1 million of the loan amount were canceled,
dms reducitg the Joan amount to $79 milhin.



19
4. Project Implementation
Indiators                              Appraial Estimate              Actual
Bid Closing                                    May 1983                       May  1983
Construction Start                             Dec. 1983                      Feb. 1983
Completion of the Dam                          June 1987                      June 1987
Commissioning of Unit No.1                     Feb. 1988                      Feb.1988
Commissioning of Unit No.2                     June 1988                      Feb.1988
Comineus Whie both geneating units were installed in 1988, exensive repairs had to be caied out on the turbine
rnnr, which had been supphed with defective castigs. ITis procem delayed full availability of both uoits until
1989.



20
5. Project Costs ar.- FLncing
A. Project Costs (US$ mnllion)
At Appraisal                 Actual I/
Project component                     Local Forelgn Total        Local  Foreign  Total
Preliminary works                     14.3    1.4   15.7         9.5     1.4      10.9
Dams                                  36.9   25.6   62.5        31.3   34.7       66.0
Tunnels, powerhouse and access        16.4   17.4   33.8        18.1   96.1    114.2
Mechanical and electrical works       14.5   23.9   38.4         2.4   34.5       36.9
Transmission line                      0.7    3.9    4.6         0.6    6.4        7.0
Engineering consultants                5.6   23.9   29.5         1.0   25.5       26.5
Panel of expvts and
project team leader                  0.4    1.2    1.6         0.02    3.2       3.2
Miscellaneous                          3.3    0.0    3.3         4.3     0.1       4.4
Base cost                          108.4  114.7  223.1        67.2  201.9    269.1
Coningencies
Physical                            19.9   13.7   33.6            Included in above
Price                               35.9   19.2   55.1            Included in above
Total project cost                   164.2  147.6  311.8        67.2  201.9    269.1
bnteest during constucton
Bank-fianced                         0.0   27.3   27.3         0.0   21.1       21.1
Other sources                        0.6   13.9   14.5         0.2    18.0      18.2
Front-end fee on Bank loan             0.0    0.2    0.2         0.0    0.2        0.2
Tota financin required               164.8  189.0  353.8        67.4  241.2    308.6
L lme amounts acually disbursed in the various currencies from each source of funding have been comverted into US$ at the
exasuge rate pevailig on June 30, 1992



21
B. Project Financing
Planned
(Loan 23591-KE)
Source                           Agreement                             Final
(US$'000)                          (US$'000)
IBRD  Expenditure Categories
1.    Works Part A (the dam)            36,000                             27,794
2.     Consultants for                  25,000                             25,528
Parts A, B, C
3.     Project leader and                1,600                              3,238
Panel of experts
4.     Interest and other               27,000                             21,i87
charges up to July 89
5.     Refund of Project                 1,000                               1,016
Preparation Advance
6.     Fee                                 237                                237
7.     Unallocated                       4,163                      Included above
Total IBRD                       95,000                             79,000
Co-Financing Tstitutions
Multilateral                     33,200                             27,200
Bilateral                       131,300                            180,900
Domestic
KPLC through TARDA               46,200                             21,500
Government                       48,100                             21,500
Total                           353,800                            330,100
Comments: The fnal amounts are the amulative disbursemb_ by each agency at fte rste of exchange prevailing at Jhe 30,
1992. KPLC contibution was KSh 693,670,934.15, and has been converted at fte rate of 1 USS - KSh 32.3075 which prevailed
on Jume 30, 1992



22
6. Pro3ect Results
AppraLsl                              Actual
Estimate
A. Direct Benefits
Energy production during an
average hydrological year, long-
term average, Gigawatthours                         910                                  790
Generating capacity available
to Kenyan power system                               140                                 140
B. Economic and finandal Impact
Economic Rate of Retun                              10.0                               10.17
Financial rate of return for the                      8.2%                              n.a.
aggregate of the power companies
Financial rate of return for                         not calculated                     1.7%
Kiambere project alone
Notes and udeln assump
Mr. fina rate of retum for te aggrgat of the power compan, was v   lcalcuied at appraisal based on constant prices in
Kenya shIm. It has not been recalculated beause ) the finncl stments of all Power Companies were not available
and those which were available (KPLC and Tarda for 1990) use curreat Kenya shillings and histoncal rates of exchange; and
(i) ther are disorpancis in the tratmet of KPLC's indebdnss to TARDA.
The rate of return for the Kiambere prject alone has been estaimaed as an indication, using as asset value the aggregate of the
financing in foreign cuency (paragrph 5.2 of the text), as return the lease payments (KSh 284 million) due, although not
paid, by KPLC converted at the rate of exchange of KSh 21.61USS prevailing in 1990, less depreiation and overhead.
If the lease paymes are not considered due, the rate of rehum becomes negative.



23
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                           Section         Compliance          Status
Loan Agreement
Repay interest and principal       2.08 & 2.09     Twice yearly        No, paid by
guarantor
Hire consultants and panel of experts    3.02 (a) & (b)    During execution  Complied with
Furnish plans and specifications   3.02 (a),       During execution   Complied with
keep records                       (b) & (c)
Report on execution and initial    3.04 (d)        Dec. 31, 1992       Report was
operation of the Project                                               not provided
Acquire land                       3.05            During execution    Complied with
Maintain insurance                 4.03            Ongoing             Not known
No sale of assets                  4.04            Ongoing             Not known
Maintain records                   5.01            Ongoing             Complied with
!ndependent auditors               5.02 (a)        Ongoing             Delayed, and
outstanding
Timely reporting                   5.02 (b)        Ongoing             Delayed, and
outstanding
Reporting on Power Companies       5.02 (c)        Ongoing             Delayed, and
outstanding
Project Agreement
KPLC to yield ROR of 10%           3.01 (a)        Annually            Probably failed
in FY1986 & 1987, and 8%           3.01 (at)       Annually            Probably failed
in FY1988 and thereafter
KPLC to provide financial          3.02 (d)(e)     Annually            Did not comply
reports



24
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
-    _=     =    _                     -    -    -... _ =
'83  '84  '85  'sft   87  '88  '89  '"0  '91  '92   '93   Total
Preappraisal    8                                                             8
Appraisal     40                                                             40
Negotiation    10                                                            10
Supervision         12    8    10   12   -I   10   12    5    6    12    98
Total         58   12    8    10   12   11   1O   12    5    6    12    156
B. Missions
Stage of Proj. cycle  Month/Year    No.of Persons   Specializations a/
Preparation        Oct. 1980              2         FA,ENG
Preparation        Jun. 1981              2         FA,ECON
Preparation        Feb. 1992              2         FA,ENG
Preappraisal       Aug. 1982              3         FA,ENG,ECON
Appraisal          May 1983               6         FA,ENG,ENG,
ECON,ECON,TA
Supervision        Feb. 1984              3         FA,ENG,ECON
Supervision        Dec. 1984              3         FA,ECON,ENG
Supervision        June 1985              2         FA,ENG
Supervision        Feb. 1986              2         FA,ENG
Supervision        Sept.1986              2         FA,ENG
Supervision        Dec. 1986              4         FA,ENG,ECON,
ENG
Supervision        Feb. 1987              2         ENG,ECON
Supervision        Aug. 1987              1         ENG
Supervision        Aug. 1988              2         ENG,FA
Supervision        Dec. 1988              2         ENG,FA
Supervision        Mar. 1989              I         ENVIR.
Key: a/ ECO=Economist, ENG=Engineer, FA=Fincial Analyst, TS=Training Specialist,
ENVIR=11wmtimenta or Resdeeme Specials



