GC iA
LOAN NUMBER 2359 KE
Project Agreement
(Kiambere Hydroelectric Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
Dated                     P           , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2359 KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 0, 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY
(hereinafter called KP&L).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Tana and Athi Rivers Development Authority (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that KP&L agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS KP&L, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Management and Operations of KP&L;
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) KP&L shall at all times: (i) manage its
affairs, plan the development of its properties and facilities,
and maintain its financial position, and (ii) cause its plant,
equipment, properties and facilities to be maintained and all
necessary renewals and repairs there to be made, all in accord-
ance with appropriate public utility, engineering, financial and
business principles and practices.


﻿- 2 -
(b) KP&L shall enter into a leasing agreement with the
Borrower, satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank, for the
operation and management of the facilities included in the
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank and the Guarantor shall
otherwise agree, KP&L shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Leasing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a)
KP&L shall not amend its Memorandum and Articles of Association
in any material respect; and (b) KP&L shall at all times maintain
its corporate existence and right to conduct its operations and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, licenses, concessions and franchises
which are necessary in the conduct of such operations.
Section 2.04. KP&L shall, without undue delay, make avail-
able to the Borrower funds for the Project on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank and the Guarantor, and in an
aggregate amount at least equal to 15% of the estimated cost of
the Project, including interest during construction, duties and
taxes.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants;
Amendment to a Prior Agreement
between the Bank and KP&L
Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
KP&L shall take all necessary steps within its power as shall be
required to provide the Power Companies with consolidated net
operating income to yield a rate of return on the value of their
combined net fixed assets in operation of not less than: (i) 8%
for the calendar years 1984 and 1985; (ii) 10% for the calendar
years 1986 and 1987; and (iii) thereafter, not less than 8% for
each succeeding calendar year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the consolidated net operating income of
the Power Companies for the year in question to


﻿-3-
the average of the value of the net fixed assets
in operation of the Power Companies at the
beginning and at the end of that year.
(ii) The term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion" shall mean the gross book value of fixed
assets used for electric utility operations,
including any buildings primarily used as offices
for electric utility operations, less the amount
of accumulated depreciation thereon computed under
Section 47 (1) (d) (ii) of the Electric Power Act
and any amount contributed by customers for assets
in operation, such gross book value of fixed
assets used for electric utility operations and
accumulated depreciation applicable thereto to be
revalued annually on the basis of a price index
system satisfactory to the Bank and KP&L, which
shall take into account the fluctuations in the
replacement values of those assets as well as the
fluctuations in the value of Kenya currency.
(iii) The term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross revenues from electric utility opera-
tions, including rents from buildings pri-
marily used as offices for electric utility
operations and excluding interest on invest-
ments and other income applicable to opera-
tions or activities which are not electric
utility in character; and
(B) the expenses    related  to  electric utility
operations including:
(1) operation, maintenance, purchased power
and administration expenses;
(2) the costs of experimental and general
research work for the electric utility
industry and of preliminary surveys,
plans and investigations of utility
projects which do not prove to be feasi-
ble and are abandoned;


﻿-4-
(3)  taxes, including income taxes related to
net operating income; and
(4) the allowance for depreciation, at rates
prescribed or approved under Section 47
(1) (d) (ii) of the Electric Power Act,
applied to the gross book value of fixed
assets as revalued pursuant to paragraph
(b) (ii) of this Section.
Intercompany transactions among the Power Companies
shall not be taken into account in calculating the
amount of consolidated "net operating income".
(iv) Interest and other charges on debt are not to be
deducted as expenses under paragraph (b) (iii) (B)
of this Section, but the amount of such charges
related to electric utility operations shall be
taken into account in calculating the amount of
"income taxes related to net operating income"
under such paragraph.
(v) If the Guarantor makes payment to KP&L for rural
electrification projects, then any such payments
to:
(A) cover all or part of the capital cost of such
projects shall be considered "amounts contri-
buted by customers" under paragraph (b) (ii)
of this Section; and
(B) indemnify operating losses shall be consid-
ered part of "gross revenues" under paragraph
(b) (iii) (A) of this Section. For the pur-
poses of this subparagraph the term "operat-
ing losses" means amounts by which the ex-
penses of operating such projects, including
the allocatable costs of generation, trans-
mission and administration as well as direct
costs of operation, and excluding deprecia-
tion which is not charged on amounts con-
tributed by customers, exceed the revenues
collected  from   customers  served  by  such
projects.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. (a) KP&L shall continue to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condi-
tion.
(b) Without limitation or restriction of its obligations
under paragraph (a) of this Section, KP&L shall continue to
prepare and maintain its accounts on a depreciation accounting
basis.
(c) KP&L shall prepare pro forma statements combining
KP&L's financial statements with those of the other Power Com-
panies which pro forma statements shall: (i) exclude intercompany
payments or items not affecting the consolidated net income or
equity capital of the Power Companies; but (ii) identify the
portion of s,id net income and equity capital allocatable to each
of the Power Companies.
(d) KP&L shall: (i) have its individual accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses, statements of sources and application of funds and
related statements) for each financial year audited, in accord-
ance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the said accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(e) KP&L shall furnish to the Bank, contemporaneously with
its submission of its audited individual accounts and financial
statements, the combined financial statement of the Power Com-
panies referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Section and such
other information concerning such statements as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Sections 4.01 and 4.03 of the Project Agree-
ment, dated April 23, 1980, between KP&L and the Bank (Loan
No. 1799 KE) are hereby amended to read as Sections 3.01 and 3.02
hereof, respectively.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of KP&L thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify KP&L thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-7-
For KP&L:
The Kenya Power and
Lighting Company Limited
P.O. Box 30099
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable Address:                     Telex:
ELECTRIC                          22253
Nairobi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KP&L may be taken or executed by the Chief
Executive of KP&L or sLc other person or persons as KP&L shall
designate in writing, and KP&L shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE KENYA POWER AND
LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of_        198,
FOR SECRETARY


