                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29517

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (PPFI-Q1720 PPFI-Q1721 TF-25923 IDA-33800)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT




                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 16.2 MILLION

                                      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                               TANZANIA

                                                 FOR A

                            HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                              June 28, 2004




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective 30 June 2004)

                                           Currency Unit = TSh
                                                  TSh 1 = US$ 0.00090
                                                  US$ 1 = T.Sh1107.5
                                                SDR 1=US$1.47
                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                                July 1  June 30

                                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL Adaptable Program Loan                                 MCH Maternal and Child Health
CHF Community Health Fund                                  MMC Muhimbili Medical Center
CMS Central Medical Store                                  MoF Ministry of Finance
CHMT Council Health Management Team                        MoH Ministry of Health
DANIDA Danish Agency for Development Assistance            MOU Memorandum of Understanding
DFID Department for International Development              MSD Medical Stores Department
DHMT District Health Management Team                       MTEF Medium-term Expenditure Framework
DHS Demographic and Health Survey                          NBC National Competitive Bidding
DRF Drug Revolving Fund                                    NHIF National Health Insurance Fund
EHP Essential Health Package                               NGO Non-Governmental Organization
FY Fiscal year                                             PER Public Expenditure Review
GFAMT Global Fund against AIDS, Malaria, and               PoW Program of Work
TB Tuberculosis                                            PORALG President's Office Regional and Local
Government
GoT Government of Tanzania                                 PRS Poverty Reduction Strategy
HIPC Highly Indebted Poor Countries                        PSR Project Supervision Report
HMIS Health Management Information System                  QAG Quality Assessment Group
HRH Human Resources for Health                             QA Quality Assurance
HSDP Health Sector Development Program                     RBM Roll-back Malaria
ICB International Competitive Bidding                      RHST Regional Health Support Team
KCMC Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Center                  RS Regional Secretariat
LGA Local Government Authority                             SWAp Sector-wide Approach
                                                           TB Tuberculosis


                                         Vice President:    Calisto E. Madavo
                                        Country Director    Judy M. O'Connor
                                         Sector Manager     Dzingai Mutumbuka
                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Emmanuel Malangalila

                                          TANZANIA
                             Health Sector Development Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    2
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            23
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 27
8. Lessons Learned                                                               29
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             40
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47

Project ID: P058627                                                  Project Name: Health Sector Development Program
Team Leader: Emmanuel G. Malangalila                                 TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Sector Development Program                        L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1720;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1721; TF-25923;
                                                                                                     IDA-33800
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (82%); Compulsory health finance (11%); Central
                            government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); HIV/AIDS (P); Gender (S);
                            Decentralization (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/17/1998                                     Effective: 07/01/2000                09/29/2000
     Appraisal: 03/15/1999                                         MTR:                             03/01/2002
      Approval: 06/15/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH & MIN. OF
                                           REGIONAL ADMIN. AND LOCAL GOVT
                      Other Partners:      Governments of Denmark, Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and
                                           the United Kingdom

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader at ICR:             Emmanuel Malangalila                           Phillip Gowers
ICR Primary Author:             Wacuka W. Ikua; Jean-Pierre
                                Manshande


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In support of the Government of Tanzania's health sector reforms, IDA approved a three-phase
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to support the Health Sector Development Program (HSDP)
over the period 2000-2011. HSDP's overall purpose was "to improve access, utilization,
quality, and financing of health services through increased efficiency and effectiveness in
use and allocation of resources, and to maximize the impacts on health outcomes, especially
among the poor, women, and children". This ICR addresses Phase 1 of the Program which
covered the period from September 28, 2000 to December 31, 2003 with a Credit amount of SDR
16.2 million (US$22 million equivalent). Its specific objective was to accelerate the reforms and
emphasize institutional capacity development. It focused on: (i) strengthening human resource
capacity (particularly at local levels) to manage and adapt to the changing roles and
responsibilities; (ii) developing and piloting systems to improve quality and delivery of services
which in turn would improve the health status; and (iii) improving resource mobilization and
management through increased coordination, and strengthening of the support systems.

Progression to Phase 2 was triggered by: (i) the integration of health sector financing, with at
least 50% of donor resources for the sector reflected in the MTEF; (ii) the testing and
implementation of district block grants, linking inputs to outputs, outcomes and performance, in
at least 30% of the 113 districts; and (iii) the establishment of effective national guidelines for an
Essential Health Package for use by district management teams to ensure the quality of services.
All triggers were determined to have been achieved by May, 2003.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Improve resource management and quality of health services through sector reforms and
institutional capacity building. The objectives were not revised The Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was amended (on March 6, 2001) to establish two new Special Accounts; in
addition to the original Special Account (SA-A, used for activities outside the Basket), the DCA
created the US Dollar Holding Account (SA-B to fund Basket activities) and the multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS component (SA-C).

3.3 Original Components:
The Program's four components and six sub-components were:
1.       Strengthening Service Delivery, comprising:
         i.     District Health Services;
         ii.    Level 2 and 3 Hospitals; and
         iii.   Public/Private mix
2.       Strengthening the MoH & Central Support Systems, comprising:
         i.     the Role of Central MoH & Sector-wide Management;
         ii.    Central Support Systems; and
         iii.   Human Resource Development & Management;
3.       Health Financing; and
4.       the National HIV/AIDS Fund.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A




                                                   - 2 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the project quality at entry was rated satisfactory in June, 2000 by QAG. Per the
reviewers, the team showed a broad mastery of the sector and its issues and also an ability to build
borrower ownership for the project (the project was actually presented to the PAD decision meeting by
the Tanzanian Minister of Health). There was a strong indication of donor support for a coordinated
sector strategy managed by the government and well-formulated, long-term objectives of
improving the access, utilization, quality and financing of health services so as to maximize
impacts over the long term on health outcomes especially among the poor, women and children.
The project employed innovative financing instrumentation, enabling joint programmatic donor
support in addition to traditional parallel financing of elements of the sector development
program. On the other hand, the reviewers found that the task team did not provide sufficient
clarity about what would be monitored overtime. Given that this operation was prepared over a
long time period, with considerable investment of staff and budgetary resources, it was felt
monitoring should have been more developed. There were also understated risks, especially
regarding (i) the likelihood that the donors would maintain discipline overtime, (ii) the weak
capacity of the Tanzanian institutions as well as in the low level of community participation in
project development, and (iii) the potential for conflict among stakeholder groups.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Given Phase 1's emphasis on capacity building and systems development to improve MoH's
capacity to manage the sector and the regions/districts' ability to implement the activities, HSDP
achievement of Development Objectives (Dos) is rated as satisfactory. As a SWAp, IDA's
contribution to these achievements has been assessed on the basis of GoT's attainment of the
PoW's 1999-2003 objectives and targets.

Annex 1 summarizes the key performance measures. Program successes were obvious in many
areas: (i) annual PERs and annual reviews of rolling three-year MTEFs have been fully established
in the sector; (ii) basket funding functions smoothly; (iii) district-based health planning and
management system and its financing through block grants have been expanded; (iv) immunization
coverage has increased; and (v) zonal training centers have been strengthened.

While HSDP resulted in the scale-up of several key reforms, it did not fully implement some
important accompanying measures. In particular, it was less successful in: (i) setting up a
functional quality assurance system; (ii) finding solutions to the insufficient and unbalanced mix of
human resources; and (iii) persuading the Civil Service Department to accept propositions for
revision of remuneration and incentive package for health manpower.

Also, although the MoH has made progress in establishing indicators of sector performance (as
presented in the Public Health Sector Performance Profile), the HMIS is currently unable to
provide the kind of information and evidence required to report upon these indicators, and there
has been no progress on strengthening the HMIS in the last year. The 1999 Tanzanian
Reproductive and Child Health Survey and the 2002 census (results of IMR and U5M) not yet
released) should provide enough evidence to measure the program's impact during Phase 1; these
will be augmented by a Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), which is planned in August



                                                  - 3 -

2004.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1.       Strengthening Service Delivery The table in Annex 1b summarizes the current status of
HSDP's efforts to develop systems to improve the quality and delivery of services and presents
considerations for Phase II. (Total cost: US$520.00million; IDA: US$ 12.90 million) comprising:
(a) District Health Services; (b) Level 2 and 3 Hospitals; and (c) Public/Private Mix

(a) District Health Services

Health systems development: As of July 2003, the MoH had devolved authority for managing the
district hospitals, health centers and dispensaries to all 113 Council Health Management Teams
(CHMT), thereby exceeding the initial target of 30% of the districts. In addition, managerial
capacity has been strengthened in a number of important areas:

·        Planning and budgeting skills of the CHMT have improved considerably, especially for
HSDP's Phase 1 and Phase 2 districts Technical Review of Health Service Delivery at District
Level, HERA, March 2003.. CHMTs have been helped by the development of harmonized set of
guidelines for comprehensive health planning, budgeting, reporting and procurement for all
resources, GoT's, basket funds as well as "non basket" resources. Certain problems persist,
however; as noted in March 2003 and again in the 2004 Joint Annual Review Meetings, the
CHMTs have not always sufficiently used the planning, budgeting and reporting process to
support service delivery. Too much time may have been spent (between 2.5 and 3 months per
year) on the planning and budgeting process, diverting the attention of the CHMT from service
delivery.

·        Resource allocation criteria and disbursement procedures have been improved. Though
budget allocations were initially norm-based, input oriented, and established on national Minimum
Standards, a new resource allocation formula was introduced last year and comprises population,
poverty index, health (as illustrated by the under-five mortality) and number of km of road in the
district, improved allocations to the districts by linking them to the district poverty level and to
the district logistical constraints. (see also latest MoH and Local Government Reform Program
proposals). MoH: Age and sex-weighted population (50%); Poverty levels, based on the Poverty
Welfare; Index of the geographical area under question (15%); An index of mileage, to and within
the LGA (15%); and Burden of disease, to incorporate under-five and adult mortality rates plus
any others available (20%). LGRP: Population (70%), poverty count (regional) (10%), vehicle
route mileage (10%), and infant or under-five mortality (10%), most closely reflecting the MoH
proposed formula, but with an increased weighting for population In addition, restrictions on the
use of the basket funds have been reviewed to improve their flexibility; the reported average delay
(in March 2003) of one quarter in release of funds from the central level to the councils and, in
some cases, between the District Council and the DMO's office has been reduced (2004).

·        Local financial management capacity remains a problem, as the council accountant was
often overstretched, or sometimes not qualified. Auditing of the initial 37 districts during the first
two years was relatively satisfactory; a third audit, covering 82 councils, provides a mixed picture,



                                                    - 4 -

with some deterioration, some improvement, and some unchanged.

·        A Master of Public Health Program (MPH) has been designed and introduced at the
Muhimbili University College of Health Sciences (MUCHS) and at the Kilimanjaro Christian
Medical Center (KCMC) to train the District Teams (LGAs) to manage the devolved District
Health Services and Systems.

Health service delivery: Phase I focused on the organization and delivery of key health services
and on the population's satisfaction with the quality of services. To date, the results have been
mixed.

·        The organization of health services has been based on a series of approximately 30
policy and disease specific guidelines. Unfortunately, these guidelines have proven to be
confusing, not always consistent, and not as helpful for the DHMTs. In response, the MoH has
recently streamlined the guidelines by level, establishing "Quality Standards & Criteria for District
Health Services". The recent Technical Review determined that supervision of peripheral health
facilities by DHMTs was inadequate and supervision of districts by regions was insufficient
because only a single public health officer has been appointed at the Regional Secretariat (RS).

·        MoH has developed and disseminated national guidelines for an Essential Health
Package (EHP), and personnel in all districts have been trained. The Office of the CMO has
developed and disseminated Quality Assurance (QA) guidelines which employ criteria based on
standards and norms for manpower, equipment and infrastructure and routine inspection. As
perceived by some district level staff who were interviewed by the technical review team,
however, the few QA activities that were conducted consisted of inspections by junior or
inappropriate staff.

·        PORALG: a key actor in the provision of health services through its decentralized agents
. This ministry:
         §      Established and maintained close linkage and collaboration with the ministry of
         health at central and district levels. At the central level, PORALG is a core partner in the
         Basket Financing Committee
         §      Reviewed the submission by the districts of their comprehensive plans, includes the
         submissions in its national budget and finances them. The financing is done through
         government block grants and basket funding.
         §      Maintained oversight, coordination, and implementation of districts programs by
         the presence of its staff, the District Executive Officer, who chairs the district committee.

·        Districts (and municipalities) had the tasks of guaranteeing health service delivery, and
ensuring the decentralization process. Their role involved disseminating government policy to
various stakeholders and to the communities. They:
         §      Prepared comprehensive district plans through a participatory process, which
         included the voluntary agencies and the private sector health providers in the districts.
         §      Ensured the provision of curative, promotional and preventive health services.
         §      Raised awareness of communities on the tools of the health reform agenda, for



                                                   - 5 -

         example the NHIF, user fees and the CHF.
         §      Ensured that facilities receive an adequate level of drugs and supplies and,
         wherever MSD supply is not adequate, that top-ups are freed from the different district
         funds, CHF/user fees.
         §      Reviewed the facilities requests for utilization of user fees, ensured the
         maintenance and renovation of buildings, and equipped health centers as deemed necessary
         with the available resources.
         §      The capacity of Council Treasurer (CT) widely varies across the districts,
         especially those operating manual accounting systems, being unable to account and report
         the basket expenditures separately.
·        Immunization coverage of children under one year old receiving DPT3 increased from
71% in 1999 to 85% in 2003.Though this data is consistent with previous household surveys, this
result will be confirmed during the upcoming DHS.

·        IMCI was implemented in 28 districts, and a recent multi-country evaluation of IMCI
showed a significant impact in Tanzania. Over the last years, the TEHIP TEHIP is the Tanzania
Essential Health Interventions Project supported by the Canadian International Development
Research Center (IDRC) which employs continuous demographic surveillance to assess the
demographic impact of delivery of an essential package of services. project documented that
IMCI, even if limited to the health facility level (as opposed to the comprehensive approach
combining facility and community levels), can significantly lower the child mortality rate at a
relatively low cost. The approach is currently being expanded to more districts to test the
feasibility of scaling up IMCI countrywide.

·        Tanzania has effectively promoted locally made bed nets impregnated at an affordable
price (Tsh.3,500-5,000). More recently, the Tanzania National Voucher Scheme (TNVS), with
support from the Global Fund, provided vouchers worth Tsh.2,500 to pregnant women to further
reduce the price of bed nets. Re-impregnation (at least once annually) remains a problem, and an
evaluation of the re-impregnation rate in Tanzania could help reorient the bed net strategy.

·        Satisfaction with the accessibility/availability, affordability, and quality of preventive,
curative and referral health services increased from 30% prior to Phase 1 to 62% in 2001
(based on the Household Budget Survey). No interim assessment has been conducted since then.
Users probably perceive positively the availability of drugs and equipment. Bribery in service
delivery practice is often cited as a significant problem at all levels, but it is reportedly less at the
district level due to the recent increased involvement of LGA and communities in the overview of
the health facilities.

(b) Level 2 and 3 Hospitals

Hospital reforms were intended to devolve management authority to Level 2 and 3 hospitals,
thereby improving current resource utilization (financial, human, and infrastructure) and
broadening future financing options.

·        Hospital reforms were initiated at Muhimbili Medical Centre (MMC), the national



                                                  - 6 -

referral hospital: a situation analysis was carried out, a Bill was to revise the current legislation
and grant MMC autonomy, and an Executive Board was installed. In December 2003, the
Director for the MMC was recruited internationally. The new management team however raised
user fees substantially, which has resulted in overcrowding of the other lower level health facilities
in Dar. The issue of user fees needs to be considered together with efforts to strengthen lower
level health facilities and exemption systems to protect the poor.

·        Bugando and KCMC hospitals (level 3) are completely autonomous under the Catholic
and Lutheran churches, respectively Bugando being more advanced than KCMC on the pay
reform. Hospital Boards are being established and by December 2004 all hospitals will have
boards (current level at 40%). Starting in July 2004, some Regional Hospitals (such as Morogoro,
Tanga, Kagera,etc.) will start contracting out non-professional functions.

(c) Public/Private Mix

Development of a more collaborative relationship between the public and private sectors has been
initiated during Phase I:

·        A study on health services delivery in the private sector, a precursor for the elaboration
of a policy/strategy for private-public sector collaboration, is in progress.

·        A steering group on Private-Public Partnership (PPP), including active participants from
the private sector, was put into place at the end of 2003. The group began drafting a standard
service agreement, based upon the existing contractual relationships with the Designated District
Hospitals (DDH). This standard agreement is expected to be adaptable to partnerships for
"non-profit" as well as "for-profit" hospitals and clinics.

·        The Private Practice Bill, passed in 1977 and amended in 1991, was recently submitted
to the Parliament for review. This bill now includes private hospitals, private health laboratories
and pharmacies, and registered nurses. It will need to address as well the possibility for
government doctors to practice privately within the public health infrastructure during certain
hours (as is now the case in MMC and Bugando and as intended as well for district level
facilities), and the role of local government PORALG - President's Office Regional
Administration and Local Government - is the central agency responsible for district government.
It has been one of the implementing agencies together with the MoH. in regulating local health
facilities.

·        The MoH has initiated a number of accreditation and quality assurance systems. The QA
unit of MoH registers Voluntary and NGO hospitals. Without a reliable system to track
shortcomings in the quality of care on a continuous basis, the accreditation program for the
private providers may not fulfill its role however.

·        The QA unit of the National Health Insurance Funds (NHIF) has developed an
accreditation system which allows accredited private providers to be reimbursed for services.
The criteria used for accreditation are currently limited to norms and standards for manpower



                                                 - 7 -

qualification, equipment and building.

·       The MoH has introduced a pharmacy accreditation system intended to increase the
coverage of pharmacies and the availability of over-the-counter drugs. The Pharmacy Board,
which is responsible for implementing the system, currently supervises 2,907 public facilities and
is over-stretched in its ability to supervise the 4,600 pharmacies country-wide. The Pharmacy
Board has established a pilot on Accredited Drug Dispensing Outlets (ADDO). ADDOs are
authorized to sell drugs to public health facilities.

·       A bill has been issued outlining how the public health system should better coordinate
with traditional healers, including their training on relevant subjects.


2.      Strengthening the MoH & Central Support Systems which included:

(a) Role of Central MoH & Sector-wide Management

During Phase 1, HSDP concentrated on improving resource mobilization and management
through increased coordination, and strengthening of support systems.

·       The MoH established operational structures and processes for implementing the SWAp.
This has reduced the transaction costs associated with bilateral planning/negotiations/monitoring,
However this has imposed a lot of load on MoH staff who are required to attend the many
technical meetings of the SWAp sub-committees, the Bilateral and Multilateral Health Forum
(BMHF) and the Basket Financing Committee. AJR improved over time as did the quality of the
dialogue and follow-up among MoH, MoF, the local government authorities, and donors.

·       The MoH has increasingly focused on its role and responsibilities for reviewing and
revising legislation, regulations, and national guidelines. A joint financing system (budgeting,
disbursement, accounting, financial management, and reporting) was progressively set in place
over the three-year period.

·       The Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) provided GoT with ownership of
health sector activities and put MoH in the driver's seat regarding the health reforms. The share
of on-budget spending has continued to rise, largely as a result of the concerted effort by MoH
and MoF to strengthen the planning and budgeting process and to improve (and incorporate into
the budget) information on external funding to the sector. As a result, on-budget estimates have
risen dramatically from 69.5% in FY01 to 79.3% of the FY03 budget, while in terms of actual
expenditure, the figure rose from 57.3% to 62.4% between FY01 and FY02. The MTEF
continues to have certain limitations. First, because the block grants allocated by the GoT, as well
as the conditional block grants provided through the Basket Fund at regional and district levels
are only captured in the Local Government MTEF, a comprehensive overview of existing financial
resources in the health sector is only possible through the annual PER, which consolidates the
MoH and Local Government MTEFs. Second, at 700 pages, the current MTEF is extremely
detailed, and it is difficult to discern a clear direction of planned, priority health sector



                                                    - 8 -

expenditures with regard to the sector policy priorities.

·       Basket expenditures (actual versus budgeted) substantially improved from 47% in FY01
to 86.6% in FY02. At the same time, there seems to have been a change in the total sector
budget/expenditure as percentage of the total government budget/expenditure. Reallocations
during FY04 have seen the Health Sector budget reduced by an additional Tsh 3.7 bn, and the
proposed MoH budget ceiling for FY05 has been reduced by Tsh 3 bn . However, since the share
of foreign aid in the total public expenditure has increased and thus has made the GoT more
dependent on foreign aid to finance its recurrent expenditures, it is understandable for the GoT to
focus on the total allocation to priority sectors rather than "domestic" resource allocations. The
MoH can use the sector resource management tools (MTEF, PER) to lobby for more resources to
the health sector, in particular since there are still large financing gaps in the MTEF: for example
while total drug needs are estimated at around $42 million for FY04, available funds for drugs
amount at approx $26 million (from 31 bn Tsh in FY03).

(b) Central Support Systems

·       Management of Medical Store Departments (formerly known as Central Medical Stores)
improved significantly during Phase 1. MSD was reorganized, an autonomous Executive Board
installed, and new management was selected internationally. Procurement of supplies for several
vertical programs (vaccines, contraceptives, TB drugs) was successfully integrated, and could be
further expanded to other programs. Stock management however remains weak, and it is
debatable as to whether the MSD list should include medical equipment.

·       Anti-malarias are available almost 100% in all health facilities through the kit and indent
system. In fact the sector is now facing problems of excess of sulfadoxine /pyrimethamine (SP) in
many of the health facilities after media distortion about it.

·       Strategies and financing for maintaining health facilities, medical equipment and
transportation remain inadequate. Although the MoH developed a strategy for rehabilitating
primary health care facilities, no comprehensive inventory was made to provide the basis for an
affordable rehabilitation and rationalization plan. For hospitals, neither a strategy nor a plan was
developed. The lack of a maintenance system for medical equipment constitutes a major
impediment for hospitals to function properly countrywide. Vehicle maintenance has received
attention, but no definitive solution has been proposed. The appropriateness of zonal maintenance
centers, as proposed by the MoH, is not widely endorsed

(c) Human Resource Development & Management

HSDP had as a principal objective to strengthen human resource capacity (particularly at local
levels) through improved personnel planning and management and through training to adapt
health staff skills to changing roles and responsibilities.

·       Despite some progress in managing human resources, MoH has not succeeded in
establishing the basis for a mid-term human resource development strategy. The MoH has thus



                                                   - 9 -

far been fairly unsuccessful in its HRH development efforts. It submitted proposals to the Civil
Service Department to revise the remuneration and incentive package, but they have not been
accepted. In 2003, MoH succeeded in opening vacant posts at district level to meet staff
shortages; these posts were to be filled by the local government, but confusion about the process
for recruiting health staff undermined the potential benefits of this measure.

·       A 2001 study focusing on Human Resources for Health (HRH) requirements and
availability in the context of scaling-up priority interventions Human Resources for Health:
Requirements and availability in the context of scaling-up priority interventions, A case study
from Tanzania; Cristoph Kurowski, Salim Abdulla; and Anne Mills; October 2003.          shows that
current employment in the public sector falls considerably short of agreed staffing norms and
the future size of the workforce will be grossly insufficient for a substantial scale up of priority
interventions by 2015. In addition, it is likely that under current conditions surpluses of unskilled
staff compensate for significant deficits among health professionals with a probable impact on
service quality. As confirmed by all stakeholders, the HRH issue constitutes a major constraint
that should receive priority attention during Phase 2.

·       In 2003, MoH created the National Human Resources for Health Working group,
bringing together representatives of the HR Development Department of the MoH, the
Presidential Office for Public Service Management, academia and development partners to
facilitate policy decisions. However there are several limitations that were not addressed: key
stakeholders were left out, no resources are available to perform policy analysis and the current
action plan lacks prioritization.

·       The Bank, together with a local research institute, is currently preparing a review on
health labor market outcomes, determinants and issues to be presented to the HR working group
to stimulate the prioritization process within the objectives. The development of an HR mid-term
strategy is facilitated by the analytical work that is undertaken by the Bank and other partners. To
ensure that the translation of the findings into policy decisions takes place, a workshop will take
place in January 2005.

·       Training capacity has been gradually improved during Phase 1. Curricula for almost all
cadres were reviewed and corresponding health learning materials (HLM) were developed and
disseminated to training institutions. Zonal training centers were strengthened to provide
in-service training to health workers in regions and districts on a continuous basis. Computer
training has also been provided to the MoH/Sector staff. This allowed for the progress reports,
financial cash-flows, MTEF, HSSP and District Plans to be computerized.

·       The progress achieved by the health sector capacity to articulate reforms, managing
change and policy development, would not have been possible without the deliberate move by the
World Bank and the GoT to train its staff in the areas which were observed to be weak during the
analytical phase.


3.      Health Financing



                                                 - 10 -

The Government passed important pieces of legislation related to increasing available financing
for the health sector.

·       At the end of Phase 1, user fees were expected to reach 13% of non-salary recurrent
expenditures, but in fact represented less than 1% of the total sector resources in 2001-2002.
User fees, initiated in 1994, are being implemented in a phased approach starting with national
hospitals, followed by specialized hospitals, regional and district hospitals. With heavy
subsidization and an exemption policy for the very poor, revenue collection reached a maximum
of 15% of the non-salary recurrent expenditures for the health facilities. Cost sharing at health
center and dispensary level is not yet compulsory, but if the District Board opts for it, user fees
must be implemented per guidelines (for fee collection, record keeping, internal controls)
provided by the MoH. A planned in-depth study of the cost sharing system planned before
December 2002 was not conducted.

·       At the end of Phase 1, hospital drug revolving funds were in place in several hospitals.
The drug revolving fund (DRF) was expected to improve availability of drugs and management of
the hospital pharmacies and to build capacity at the hospital level to manage supplies and the
ability to calculate the drug needs and improve supervision. However, to be sustainable the
concept whereby hospitals sell drugs at half their purchase price demands a more efficient
reimbursement system by the MoH.

·       The Community Health Fund (CHF) demonstrates both the potential for and difficulties
of pre-payment schemes. The CHF was introduced as a form of annual prepayment for rural
populations linked to the household's ability to pay (for example after harvest or sale of cash
crops). Under Phase 1, Government matched the amount paid by household with funds from the
IDA Credit. This fund exists alongside user fees, and both sources of funds are put in one CHF
account, managed by the Council Health Board. The district boards have benefited from these
new resources, which have been used for the improvement of facilities and additional drugs. The
CHF also gives communities management and financial control over the health funds, and allows
them to articulate locally defined criteria for user fees thus protecting the indigent groups. It also
ensures that the communities' voices are included in decision-making and therefore mitigating
corrupt practices. At the end of Phase 1, 45 districts were running CHFs with variable results.
While this fund has potential to increase access to health services for the poor, more advocacy is
necessary within the communities. Further, the utilization of health services by CHF members at
Voluntary Agency hospitals seems to cause a burden on these facilities. Issues include: (i)
centralized management of the CHF; (ii) reduced membership, due in several cases to the
departure of public servants for NHIF; (iii) high utilization; (iv) protection of the poor; (v) delays
in reimbursing the provider are caused by retaining the funds to the district instead of the facility
level.

·       The National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) has been successful enough to elicit
multiple demands from the private sector to join. A compulsory contributory insurance scheme
for public servants is administered by NHIF, a public institution established by the Act of the
Parliament (1999). Envisioned as a social health insurance scheme for 55,000 civil servants, it



                                                 - 11 -

quickly expanded to cover teachers and local authority workers (public servants). It now has a
242,508 employee members contributing 3% of their monthly salary with employers matching
these contributions. The scheme aims at ensuring access of health services for outpatient and
inpatient care throughout the country in public, private and voluntary agencies accredited facilities
as well as private practitioners, for its members and their approved dependants.

4. National HIV/AIDS Fund HIV/AIDS

·        The Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS), a Multi-sectoral coordinating body,
was established in December 2001 with a budget of USD 2 million, and a mandate "to provide
strategic leadership and to coordinate the implementation of a national multi-sectoral response
to HIV/AIDS". While it was intended to work closely with the MoH, specifically with the former
National AIDS Control Program (NACP) secretariat, which initiated work on the Health Sector
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, tensions aroused since it was not clear which organization was in
charge of HIV/AIDS in the country. The implementation of this component was therefore
delayed, and the budgeted financing was not fully utilized.

·        $0.8 million was used, mostly by MoH and TACAIDS, to:
    Ø produceguidelines/protocolstoimprovetheHIV/AIDScomponentofthedistrictwork
    plans (disseminated to all districts in May 2002) and quality surveillance system through Ante
    Natal Care surveillance in 6 regions
    Ø intervenewithspecialprogramsforAdolescentsReproductiveandSexualHealth(ARSH)
    through Behavior Change Communication (BCC) campaigns in partnership with the private
    sector
    Ø trainserviceprovidersatdistrictlevelthroughoutthecountry
    Ø provide,toallhospitals,guidelinesonappropriateuseandscreeningofblood
    Ø createaHIV/AIDS/STIlaboratory,andvoluntarycounselingandtesting(VCT)centersin
    170 facilities; train 200 counselors
    Ø createanstructuredhome-basedcaremodelforthepublicsectoranddevelopetrainingfor
    district health facility staff and community people (as a result, twenty-eight districts had home
    based care services established, over 100 providers and trainers were trained and close to 200
    voluntary agencies, NGOs and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) are now providing
    HBC).
    Ø producetheNationalMulti-sectoralStrategicFramework (2003-2007)forHIV/AIDS
    and the HIV/AIDS policy; while this was adopted, the elaboration of a HIV/AIDS work plan
    (2003-2006) was delayed.

Upon Effectiveness of the Tanzania MAP in October 15 2003, with a fund component to finance
the community/driven HIV/AIDS response, the funding of HIV/AIDS from HSDP was subsumed
in TMAP. Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMCT) was piloted in five public health
facilities, benefiting from intense research, resources and planning, and a Medical Waste
Management Plan was developed and disclosed in Tanzania in preparation for TMAP.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable




                                                 - 12 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
HSDP has contributed to a more effective enabling environment for health sector develop-ment
through the adoption of polices, strategies, legislation, and regulation, specifically by:

·       harmonizing guidelines for comprehensive health planning, budgeting, reporting and
procurement for all resources, government, basket funds as well as "non basket" resources;
·       promulgating national guidelines for an Essential Health Package (EHP) in all districts;
·       devolving management authority to tertiary hospitals;
·       strengthening Public Private Partnership by passing legislation, elaborating regulations
(standard service agreement, accreditation) and making progress towards regulatory frameworks
for service delivery, traditional practitioners and pharmaceuticals;
·       promoting a Quality Assurance program based on multiple criteria including norms and
standards in terms of infrastructure, equipment and human resources as well as quality control
supervisions.

HSDP has established and/or reinforced the structures required to develop and maintain the
evolving SWAp, in particular by:

·       establishing a Joint Donor Funding system (basket) with a well-defined Memorandum of
Understanding and quarterly meetings of the Basket Financing Committee;
·       enabling the Bilateral and Multilateral Health Forum to monitor the implementation of the
MTEF through regular meetings and annual reviews; and
·       bringing the experience of PIU staff to the SWAp management (ex. The head of the
HSR/SWAp secretariat is a former PIU coordinator and current staff worked formerly for PIUs).
The SWAp management has built capacity within MoH staff for planning, budgeting and policy
dialogue with the partners. All departments are now actively involved in SWAp meetings, BFC
meetings, PER/MTEF processes and various technical committee meetings.
HSDP has contributed to the strengthening sectoral systems and capacity for managing scarce
resources more efficiently and effectively by:
·       establishing an MTEF at central MoH and local government levels, allowing planning and
budgeting to cover multiple financing sources;
·       conducting annual PER, capturing the financial flows in the sector, allowing an in-depth
analysis of sector financing and timely identification of constraints and issues;
·       developing a planning tool at district level, based on priority setting using the Burden of
Diseases Profile that allows an accurate and realistic assessment of health needs;
·       elaborating a budget allocation formula for districts, aiming both at efficiency and equity,
by taking into account relevant variables Population, poverty level, burden of disease and logistical
constraints;
·       strengthening procurement capacity and financial management in MoH and MSD;
·       developing a cost-sharing system that includes an exemption facility for the indigent (albeit
one which is not yet fully successfully implemented) and ensures partial recovery of health costs;
and



                                                  - 13 -

developing a range of health-financing schemes (NHIF, CHF, cost-sharing) adapted to specific
group needs and their financial capacity.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Overall macroeconomic context: Structural transformation has been extremely limited, with
agriculture still dominating the non-diversified economy, hampering flexibility necessary to
withstand shock occurrences. Nonetheless, the country intensified macroeconomic policy reforms,
significantly stabilizing the economy, with falling inflation levels, climbing foreign exchange
reserves, and an overall fiscal balance. The main factors identified behind the slow development
progress are primarily: inadequate capital accumulation and productivity growth, poor support for
the transformation of agriculture, disrupted progress in building human capital and the delayed
demographic transition (Economic and Social Research Foundation, Justice Joel; 23 Dec 2003).

Worsening HIV/AIDS epidemic: A steep increase in the number of TB infections associated with
AIDS has placed an additional burden on all levels of the health care system (Tanzania Health
Sector Joint Review, March 2004).

Poverty undermines the community's ability to significantly participate in the health financing
reform program introduced by government through the Community Health Fund.

Donor resources channeled through "earmarked funding": The GoT is unable to completely
capture financial flows as some partners remain with earmarked funding. Also, disbursement from
the basket fund was delayed when donors' contributions were delayed; and when some donors
requested specific reports.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government reform policies: GoT developed a Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), and ensured
that all sectors, including health, conformed to it as they prepared their individual policy and
strategic papers. Liberalization of the economy and decentralization occurred at a swift pace,
which district reforms to move more rapidly than initially envisaged. Progress was less obvious in
inter-sectoral collaboration as illustrated by the limited improvements in water, sanitation and
nutrition. However, the GoT established the institutional setting for a strong and structured
multi-sectoral response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. GoT failed to launch a strong civil service
reform to allow the revision of remuneration schemes and incentive package for health workers.
In 2002, with financing from DANIDA the GoT introduced the Selective Accelerated Salary
Enhancement (SASE), which will end in 2005. The beneficiaries of SASE are all directors and
section heads of the MoH including HSR/SWAP secretariat and 5-7 members of the
RHMT/DHMTs. However, the impact of this program has not yet been evaluated.

Local government capacity: Lack of financial management capacity at the district level hampered
proper accountability at the decentralized level.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MoH: The MoH developed and started implementing a health policy reform. Based on the
National Health Policy, the MoH developed a Strategic Health Plan 1999-2002, which was


                                                     - 14 -

revised for the period 2003- 2008. The 1999-2002 Plan of Work was developed to guide the
implementation of the sector strategies, which included actions to promote a "Sector-wide
Approach"(SWAp) to streamline implementation arrangements and coordinate inputs from
development partners. The MoH coordinated the donors by: (i) producing and using the MTEF
as the single common reference for donors' interventions; (ii) encouraging the largest donors to
pool their resources in one basket and to use common implementation procedures; and (iii)
holding Annual Joint Reviews. The MoH, through the Annual Joint Review, ensured the
coordination among stakeholders and created an opportunity to address issues. This enhanced
accountability, commitment and ownership of the process. In addition to taking the lead in
coordinating the financial resources of the sector, the MoH was involved in:
    1. Decentralization and devolution of authority to the District Health Board working in close
        collaboration with Presidents Office, Regional Administration and Local Government
        (PORALG).
    2. Developing and revising when necessary policy guidelines, norms and standards, rules and
        regulations to ensure delivery of quality health services
    3. Strengthening health care financing including the introduction of National Health
        Insurance Fund (NHIF) and the Community Health Fund (CHF).

In the early stages of the reform, the MoH had difficulties in allocating adequate resources to the
districts once they presented a comprehensive district plan. Due to the lack of resources, districts
were unable to purchase adequate drugs and supplies resulting in shortages in many public
facilities. However, substantial progress was made. In most health centers, dispensaries and
district hospitals visited adequate stock of drugs and supplies, provided through MDS, were
reported.

The MoH also:
    1. Introduced cost sharing at national, regional, and district health facilities levels. While
        providing a regulatory framework, the MoH left the responsibility to the District Board for
        enforcing this at the health center or the dispensary levels.
    2. Initiated the tertiary and secondary hospital reform through the passing of the MMC Bill.

    3. Provided strong commitment and support for HIV/AIDS prevention and control. The
        health sector response to HIV/AIDS is implemented through the Health Sector Strategic
        Plan.

Implementing the above activities put a strain on the MoH's financial and human resources. The
number of reforms and their implementation pace at times overloaded limited human resources,
while incentives, financial and professional, are still lacking. The technical skills necessary for
implementing reforms are also still limited. The lack in procurement capacity within the MoH and
the other implementing agencies further slowed down processes. Recently this issue has been
addressed by implementing the recommendations made in the joint procurement and financial
assessments, but the results are pending.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total program cost was estimate at US$654.0 million. Three sources of
financing were envisaged:


                                                 - 15 -

    1. Government, with a contribution of US$ 369.14. Government contribution was expected
        to be financed from the public budget (US$ 351.6 million) and from internally generated
        funds, mainly through user fees, which were expected to contribute US$17.5 million
    2. IDA with a credit of US$22.0 million.
    3. Other co-financing partners with an expected contribution of US$262.86 million (of which
        US$94.40 was unidentified in the PAD); this included pooled funds in the health account,
        earmarked financial contributions for the achievement of the health sector's objectives, or
        both.

Government contributed more than foreseen (120 percent), however in FY04 the GoT allocation
to the health sector has fallen to 9.2% from 10.4% recorded the previous year (Health Sector
PER Update 2004). While the allocation to the sector has increased by 75% in real terms over
the past three-years, this is from a very low base and generally the health sector is not doing as
well compared to other PRS priority sectors such as education.

Nominal spending on health has been rising. In FY02, spending increased 15 percent over the
previous year, and in FY03 it increased 20 percent (Actuals for FY03 were calculated from the
budgeted amount reflecting the same percentage spent as in FY02 actual vs. budgeted).
However, much of this can be accounted for by the increase in basket funds, which rose by over
71 percent in FY03 over the previous year, and 80 percent in FY02 (expected increases at
appraisal were 43 percent and 75 percent respectively).

The share of the recurrent budget has continued to rise as a percentage of the on-budget total,
from 83 percent in FY01 to 86 percent in FY03. This is largely due to the increasing share of the
basket, and the fact that the majority of basket spending is accounted for through the recurrent
budget. However, the expected rates set at 95.5 percent during appraisal could not be reached
given the unforeseen increase in development expenditures.

Contributions from donors exceeded expectations (137 percent of expected donor's contribution
at appraisal) Expected expenditure from PAD Annex 5 Section B Table 2: Estimated Resource
Envelope for the Health Sector; actual expenditure from Health Sector PER Update 2004, Table
7 Public health spending, by funding type (Billion shillings); exchange rate shillings/USD was
calculated based on the average of the exchange rate at the end of the month for 12 months of
each FY (Integrated Controller's System, Common Data Stores: Currencies database)), although
actual spending from the pooled funds was less than projected (75 percent). While the nominal
contribution of the donors was higher than expected in total, it varied by year - in the third year of
the project donor financing decreased from the previous year, from US$128.73 million to
US$119.88 million The exchange rate was calculated based on the average of the exchange rate at
the end of the month for12 months in the FY. Integrated Controller's System, Common Data
Stores: Currencies. The foreign contribution to on-budget expenditure (i.e. captured in MTEF)
has increased from 22 percent in FY01 to 35 percent in FY03.

Basket funds: For the first two fiscal years, 2001, 2002, the donor basket was at 64 percent and
66 percent respectively of the amounts anticipated at appraisal. In FY03, actual basket spending
reached 79 percent of the expected amount. This translates into a growth in the donor basket to



                                                - 16 -

an estimated 23 percent of total on-budget spending and 27 percent of the recurrent budget in
FY03.

Intra-sectoral trends: There has been a decrease year by year in the proportions of domestic
allocations for all categories ( level 1, 2 & 3, hospitals and preventive/primary, although
preventive/primary got the biggest share as compared to hospitals except for FY01. This means
that the government continued to maintain its commitment to preventive/primary health care
policy despite constrained budget

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is assessed as `likely', due to (i) the government's commitment to continue
and deepen the reforms; (ii) improvements in institutional capacity which have taken place to
implement reforms; and (iii) the donors' commitment to work through a SWAp, with the annual
reviews giving an opportunity for reviewing progress and agreeing upon the future. However, the
challenges to sustainability are: (i) the continued dependence on external financing, (ii) the
uncertainty of the GoT sustaining the level of financial resources to the MoH budget as donor
shift to budget support; and (iii) the problem of human resources, particularly considering the
difficulty faced by staff in responding to HIV/AIDS.

Policy and Reform:
The MoH has effectively ensured its leadership of the health sector by: (i) using the MTEF to
capture most of the sector financing resources; (ii) harmonizing and simplifying budget and
planning guidelines down to the district level; (iii) instituting a joint disbursement system and
common implementation procedures; (iv) organizing annual joint reviews; and (v) conducting
annual comprehensive PERs. These advances seem irreversible, and constitute major
organizational progress.

Institutional: The successful implementation of the reforms significantly increased health
manpower's productivity from central level down to the district level. In particular, the reform
agenda has strengthened and empowered the local level by creating councils to direct the
implementation of services in the districts. In some cases (where the CHF is being implemented),
the local authorities were able to hire technical staff as needed, and pay them from the CHF funds.
After two years, and a negotiation process, the responsibility of employing this staff was handed
over to the government.

Donors: The donors funding the sector fully supported the SWAp and worked closely with the
government, actively participating in the annual joint review and its output. While the Basket
commenced with some initial "teething" problems most of them have been overcome and
disbursements have became more regular and dependable. While a number of partners including
the Bank are committed to finance Phase II of the program, some of them will opt to provide
budget support ­ this includes the Bank, which will gradually shift financing to the PRSC if the
MoF retains current levels of financing for the sector.

Financial: In terms of total public expenditure in the sector, there has been a small increase in the



                                                  - 17 -

share of the health budget over few years since the publication of the PRS, from 7.5% in FY00 to
an estimated 8.7% in FY03 (expenditures continued to rise from 6.6% to 8.3% between FY00
and FY02). However, this remains low relative to the target of 15% of government budget agreed
in Abuja in 2001 (a target not achieved by Sub-Saharan Africa in general). Furthermore, there
has been a continued downward trend, in both budget and expenditure, in the share of domestic
funding in the on-budget total. The progressive move to general budget support opens the sector
to the risk that the GoT may not allocate sufficient resources to the sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory

Bank performance during the project lending was satisfactory, consistent with QAG's assessment.
The Bank incorporated the lessons learned from the Health and Nutrition project in the design of
the HSDP I. It innovatively employed an APL, an instrument that had recently debuted to
support SWAps and long-term policy reforms. The pharmaceuticals sector reforms were pursued
as project outcomes rather than made a conditionality. The Bank employed global and regional
knowledge on SWAps, particularly from the Ugandan and Ghanaian experiences. The Bank
pre-appraisal team, thanks to its diversity, was able to ensure a thorough review of the issues.
The composition of the pre-appraisal and appraisal teams demonstrated the Bank's serious
commitment to the preparation of this project. The GoT showed a strong commitment and
leadership in preparation, demonstrated partly by their presentation at Concept and Decision
Meetings, a close collaboration and joint preparation with other donors (including some division
of labor in financing technical work/analysis).

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory

The Bank TTL was initially based at headquarters, although the presence of a local Senior HNP
Specialist in the field was critical to continuous supervision and support. Subsequently, the Bank
placed the Lead Specialist TTL in the field office, but responsibility was later passed to the local
senior staff. The posting of the HQ-based TTL to the field allowed him to be closely involved
with all other relevant stakeholders in the preparation and holding of the Annual Joint Review
meeting which was a crucial moment for the Project's supervision. The subsequent appointment
of the TTL who managed the project through Closing ensured continuity and close collaboration
and greatly informed the preparation of Phase II. The presence of financial and procurement
specialists in the field has provided useful support to the government to implement the project and
maintained bank supervision in the respective areas.

In December 2000, a Bank supervision mission expanded its TORs to include a joint stock-taking
exercise on the implementation of the government's health sector program, which identified the
major constraints in the sector and assisted in the preparations of the following year's joint



                                                  - 18 -

review.

After the MTR, conducted in March 2002, supervision missions were less often documented by
Aide Memoires, relying more on the Annual Joint Review meetings that benefited from a wider
scope of technical capabilities provided through the other donors and was increasingly better
documented. PSRs reflected comments from the Sector Manager and the Country Director from
July 2001 onward.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory

The Borrower was very efficient in putting into place the partnership setting and the institutional
arrangements to initiate a SWAp with a Basket Fund involving some of the major donors, and a
MTEF which sought to capture all donors. At Preparation the government revised the three-year
Program of Work and a one-year Plan of Action, which was intended to serve as a framework for
coordinated sector-wide approach.

The Borrower effectively took steps to implement reforms. The government remained steadfast
even when opposition was high, for example, the establishment of the NHIF and making
mandatory deductions from employees despite initial opposition from the unions. Also, the GoT
sought ways of revising addressing the reform rather than abandoning it. Government
coordinated the participation of different stakeholders and maintained intensive collaboration
within and out of government agencies.

Finally, the Borrower swiftly processed conditions of effectiveness: (i) accounting and financial
management (FM) system established satisfactory to IDA; (ii) independent auditors appointed
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; and (iii) the Project Implementation Plan adopted,
and an annual work plan for July 2000 to June 2001. However, once the SWAp was underway
and the project was launched, the reduced pressure may have resulted in the implementation of
some reforms--specifically the hospital and the civil reform ones--being delayed.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory

The borrower organized the Annual Joint Reviews according to the TORs produced by the MoH.
The review process was organized in two parts: (i)a technical review; and (ii) a main review. The
technical review consolidated key information and findings among six working groups, also
making use of the information collected prior by a consulting Review Team Contracted out to HERA,
an International Consulting Firm, prior to the AJR. The main review, a huge forum led by the MoH
with a large participation of representatives from the stakeholders (MoH, PORALG, districts,
donors, "basket" and "non-basket", NGOs, for profit and non-profit private sector and other civil
society), had the responsibility to set milestones to be achieved in the following year.



                                                   - 19 -

The government introduced reforms that had very far-reaching consequences and did its best to
manage the outcomes. Donor coordination is complex including the management of the
Memorandum of Understanding, which the government made efforts to enforce though not
always successfully. The project closed with a disbursement of 96.5%, as scheduled, and with
some procurement withheld until phase II due to exhaustion of resources and time constraints.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory

Overall responsibility of the project was with the MoH while the day-to-day management of the
different components was with Health Sector Reform Secretariat under the Policy and Planning
Department within MoH. This department maintained close collaboration with the
implementation agencies at national, regional, district and community levels. Despite being
overstretched in overseeing a project with such complexity, the components were reasonably
related to achieving the development project objectives.

Furthermore, the MoH succeeded in leading an open and frank dialog with all the donors within
the SWAp framework, particularly during the preparation and holding of the Annual Joint Review
Meetings. The MoH quickly and smoothly imposed the MTEF as the single reference for most
interventions in the health sector. As a result, the shift to the SWAp, implying transparency in
managing GoT's and donors's activities, was highly successful.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

Major issues were identified and addressed; most reform topics agreed at project identification
were implemented though with diverse outcome and success. Moreover, the Borrower took the
lead of the SWAp and remained in control while gradually improving its quality. However, the
Borrower could have improved the SWAp reviewing process by increasing the review frequency,
for example semi-annually, and by widening the scope of the review through joint field visits.

8. Lessons Learned

·       Advocacy for reform and information dissemination at all levels is essential for
success. While government senior staff and partners may have been fully aware of the expected
reform, and had access to most of the reform documents, this information was not readily
available at the lower levels, especially within communities. This sometimes led to delayed
appreciation and ownership of reforms hence slowing the process. The government and partners
need to invest in reform advocacy on a continuous basis with the different stakeholders including
the community level.

·       Donor coordination, a necessary input to health reform especially when it involves a
SWAp, demands commitment from partners, and management skills from the government.
The management of pooled financing has been a challenge for the ministry, evolving over-time
and causing delays in the implementation of the programs. This, mainly because donors have
different mandates, and disbursement periods which often differ from government's. There was


                                                 - 20 -

also inconsistency between the financial years of local and central government. To coordinate all
these different and sometimes conflicting mandates, requires high leadership to anticipate and
prepare for various issues and to negotiate an acceptable compromise for all, while not derailing
the project. However, the high coordination transactions costs translated into a sharp increase in
basket funding and its efficient utilization. There have also been challenges for the government
staff in shifting from project financing (where they prepare procurement plans for IDA's financing,
for example) to programmatic support (where a procurement plan for the entire budget is
required).

·       Reforms require new and diversified skills. Reform introduces new and unfamiliar
ways of doing things in most areas, which poses a challenge for local staff. Training and
continuous education has to be a core pillar of reform program. Investment in the training and
retraining of staff has to be integrated in the resource allocation of reform if success is to be
achieved.

·       During the critical transition from Project lending to budget support (PRSC) it is
important to maintain a transparent dialog between MoF, MoH and donors to ensure
proper level of financial resources in the health sector. With the progressive move to general
budget support, the sector may become at risk of being unable to maintain expenditure at the
needed level without strong advocacy by MoH and donors. Since the GoT, as well as the Bank
and some other donors take into account inter-sectoral priority shifts due to macroeconomic
circumstances, it is expected that the MoH uses tools like the MTEF and the PER, to elicit
adequate actions from MoF on the health share of the GoT budget. At the same time, the
popularity of the health sector can distort the budget. Although some partners are frustrated that
donor financing accounts for a large share of the health budget, it is understandable that because
donors earmark financing for health, the GoT will reallocate some of its discretionary resources to
less well-financed, but important sectors.

·       Trade-off between capacity strengthening and service delivery. Like in other African
countries which adopted the SWAp, the experience in Tanzania shows that while focusing on
system capacity strengthening can be initially detrimental to service delivery due to overall
capacity weakness, it is a necessary step in achieving long term acceptable performance of health
service delivery.

·       Human resources issues can be resolved only by addressing the civil service as a
whole (throughout all ministries). Although the health sector can try to address its special
issues, because staff are employed by the public sector, there are limitations on what the sector
alone can accomplish.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
REHABILITATION OF HEALTH IN INFRASTRUCTURE UNDER PORALG:
·       implementation of project was slowed due to the frequent changes in the strategies and
approaches in implementing the project, as well as the few resources allocated by the government
towards the health sector



                                                  - 21 -

·        generally the government was well prepared; however project ranked as medium as some
of the good lessons captured from the previous Health and Nutrition Project have not been
brought on board

CAPITALIZATION OF HOSPITAL PHARMACIES
·        after one year of piloting this program, one of the major successes were an increase on
availability of drugs and medical supplies in hospitals and an increase in utilization of public
hospital services
·        there are problems with this program, especially due to lack of adequate right skill mix of
human resources and monopoly of government procedures of printing government documents,
lack of motivation of staff implementing DRF in hospitals which has lead to low morale at work
and lack of good management on the part of hospital administration to hold responsible heads of
cost centers for not overseeing collection of revenue in their centers
·        the Drug Revolving Fund (DRF), established in order to ensure uninterrupted supply of
drugs and medical supplies, was found to be sustainable
·        the overall performance of the DRF is ranked medium and some of the lessons learnt are
not to budget WB funds to procure products which cannot follow WB procedures, that training is
vital to avoid misunderstandings and misconceptions especially in harmonizing all hospital
accounts and that close supervision of staff under DRF is mandatory to solve operational issues
on the ground

PROCUREMENT
·        some of the major factors affecting implementation and outcome were the long procedures
with authorities who take part in the decision making during the procurement process, the poor
cooperation between end users of goods and services and lack of sufficient training on part of
procurement staff
·        more authority will be vested to the Ministries and most of the decision making will be
done there which will reduce the bureaucracy and therefore reduce delays

DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES
·        some of the factors contributing to the success of the implementation process of the
Council Health Service Board (CHSB) are the availability of financial and technical support from
the donor community such as the WB and the Basket Fund, the high support from PORALG and
the community at all levels and the recognition and approval of decentralization policy by
devolution by relevant stakeholders such as the Parliament/Cabinet and NGOs.
·        However there were some constraints encountered during the implementation such as the
delay of disbursement of basket funds, inadequate resources for capacity building at local levels,
low speed in civil servant and local government reforms which contributed to the delay of the
Health Sector Reforms implementation and inadequate supervision and follow-up at all levels

COMMUNITY HEALTH FUND (CHF)
·        some of the major achievements of the CHF, which is a fund whereby families can
contribute a premium in order to have medication for the whole family per year, are the improved
availability of drugs and medical supplies, rehabilitation/construction of infrastructure facilities,
am improved sense of ownership due to community involvement and participation in planning,


                                                 - 22 -

monitoring and spending of the money
·       however, the fund encountered some shortcomings such as the fact the enrolment of CHF
members is increasing slowly, there is an over utilization of health services by the members and
the current limited coverage
·       in order to make sure that the implementation of the fund is sustainable, more resources
are required for promotion and advocacy of the scheme, there is a need to improve the health
services at all levels so as to attract more people, especially the poor, to ensure community
involvement and participation of planning and monitoring and management of health services
·       some of the future challenges are for the government to provide matching funds and to
provide guidelines and regulations for running the scheme, for the contributors to advocate and
promote the scheme and for the health providers to improve availability of drugs and medical
supplies

Comments regarding IDA supported project by the component manager of
Environmental and Health Sanitation:
·       implementation of environmental activities, such as the development and printing of the
PHAST guidelines and the waste management guidelines, despite the long time it took for this, as
well as the development of hygiene tools and construction of 30 incinerators for health care waste
management, were mostly successful, except the last 2, due to auditing procedures; the
non-implementation of these last two activities would produce negative results in addressing
HIV/AIDS
·       the performance of the bank was good, but the implementation of some activities did not
materialize because of the late response from the regions
·       the performance of the project was ranked as medium because of the non-implementation
of some activities

Comments regarding HSDP-Phase I by the HRH-Section:
·       some of the factors affecting the implementation of the project are delay in the
disbursement of the funds to the project, the human resource shortage in the health sector to
implement decentralized roles effectively, insufficient improvement in planning, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as inadequate capacity building due to limited financial
resources leading to few opportunities for training
·       in order for the project to be successful, there is a need for more decentralization, which
currently is taking place at a low speed
·       strong commitment is necessary at all stages by GoT and donors, particularly in the
disbursement of the funds which is normally done very late.

(b) Cofinanciers:
SWISS
1. Currently the MTEF captures 65-70% of recurrent and development planned expenditures in
the sector.

2. The MoH has made tremendous strides in strengthening the budgetary process through the
MTEF process, however, a number of issues to note include the following:
        a) limitation of the MTEF within a decentralized health system (it only covers the Ministry
        of Health);


                                                 - 23 -

         b) it is extremely detailed on inputs making it very long (2 Volumes - approx 700 pages);
         c) More clearer alignment is required between the MTEF and the Health Sector Strategic
         Plan/Poverty reduction Strategy (it is difficult to link how the MTEF itself is actually
         translating the strategic outputs of the HSSP into a medium term financial framework);
         d) more clearer prioritization is required in light of the potential resources available;
         e) it should be a dynamic and rolling expenditure plan that programs resources to strategic
         activities.
         f) Government block grants to Councils and the conditional council grant from basket are
         not captured by MoH MTEF and are under the PORALG MTEF (global figures).
         Therefore, the Public Expenditure Review (PER) is a necessary consolidating instrument.
         However, PER needs to be further strengthened and institutionalized within the Sector as
         it currently relies heavily on an external consultant to undertake the work.

The domestic allocations to the Sector are stagnant for FY04, it appears that external resources
are replacing GoT resources and in FY05 we will see an actual decline in domestic allocations to
the Sector. This at a time when there are tremendous funding needs/gaps in the Sector and
additional new demands coming on stream. There will be a reduction in GoT budget resources to
the Sector for FY04 following a supplementary budget that reduced the MoH budget by TSh
3.7bn.

While the Human Resource (HR) plan was not updated since 1995, norms ands standards for HR
were elaborated in 1999. The HR database for the Ministry has been developed over the last 3
years.

HMIS is collecting too detailed/too much information and should be streamlined into an essential
package of information. Data entry is computerized at the regional level and is still manual at
district level although there are two ongoing district level computerized data entry pilots.

IRISH AID (Development Cooperation Ireland - DCI)
MTEF: It should be reviewed to avoid repetition of already completed activities, calculations
mistakes, and should be linked to the 5 years strategy plan. In its current form it does not include
DCI's and SDC's contribution on National Malaria Control Program.

While not being a pressing need since it is overwhelmingly carried out at the district level,
procurement is a sensitive issue that the Irish Aid, like many other donors, would prefer to
subcontract it to a specialized agency rather than be left under the responsibility of the MoH.

On WB contribution, Irish Aid believed that seed funds provided outside the basket by the WB
rightly focused on system improvement, and the participation of the WB in Basket Financing was
crucial to its existence. However, while the WB recently pledged important funds for the
upcoming phase, it failed to properly communicate its strategy. From a questionnaire provided to
the co-financiers it can be drawn that the WB did address the right issues during the preparation
of the project and did not impose it on the government, but that the supervision of the project did
not reach its potential. The government on the other hand, had only a `medium' rated
performance. Community participation is crucial to the sustainability of the Program.



                                                  - 24 -

Private sector involvement is improving, being actively represented in Annual Joint Reviews.

Health Service delivery: Irish Aid underlines the inappropriate advertisement of the media as the
reason why some people revert back from SP to chloroquine, which is no more effective. On
family planning, Irish Aid believes that CPR is stagnating over the last years because the MoH
does not raise awareness. Community participation should be in kind due to the seasonal
economies and shortages in cash in rural areas. The indent system for drug supply proved to be
more cost-effective than the kit system.

DANIDA
While the WB is going to reduce its share in the basket and increases its PRSC support, DANIDA
strongly supports the advocacy for an increase of government share into the MTEF or at least to
prevent the government reducing its share. Regarding the District basket, DANIDA wanted to
follow the Zambia model: a deconcentrated reform leading to a new system.

In the implementation of the district basket there were too many restrictions, confusing guidelines,
problematic financial management (shown by a recent audit), possible corruption (still to
determine) during the 1st phase. Number of disclaimers, suggesting mismanaging, increased for
unclear reasons. Council accountants are obviously overstretched or not enough qualified.
While the indent system is much cheaper than the kit system, it is logistically more complex. The
management of MSD is getting better, although the MSD Board is not fully autonomous and is
therefore not effective in firing less effective staff. There is no strategic thinking in the Board, in
particular regarding the introduction of ARV for which MSD has no clear direction. Management
remains too conservative, relying on too much stock. Hence expanding to medical equipment will
be difficult.

HMIS, the result of two decades of DANIDA support, did not produced credible results ­
questionable data collection at the base among other reasons. The new LGA might rectify this
with it emphasis on having reliable statistics.

GTZ and KFW
GTZ also emphasized that MTEF is not fully articulated with the 5 years HSP. While the regional
level is moderately integrated in the central level, the regional hospitals are not. SWAp, which
focuses mainly on system improvement, impacted as well the quality of service through increased
availability of funds, drugs, and equipment at the periphery during the previous 3 years.

The hospital reform is making slow improvements, and the process encounters no opposition.

GTZ underlined the critical issue of HR. Since 1995 the workforce lost approximately 20,000
units, leaving only 48,000 out of which only 36% are qualified. Furthermore, the urban/rural
repartition is biased. Immediate solutions suggested by GTZ were: (i) recruit the qualified,
outside of the system, medical and paramedical staff (estimated to be in significant numbers), (ii)
increase the productivity and improve personnel management, (iii) expand SASE, a training and
better housing program, (iv) increase output, and (v) allow private practice in public hospitals to



                                                   - 25 -

increase the incentive to work in the public sector.

GTZ noted that given the enormous workload implied by the introduction of anti-retroviral
(ARV) drugs, the government should be cautious in introducing them without accompanying
measures.

User fees were recently expanded. CHF is used to purchase equipment.

Health delivery (coverage >70% - first contact at less 5 km): IMCI approach cannot be expanded
further than the 20 districts in which it is currently enforced due to lack of funding. Also, the
IMCI community component is not yet implemented. The steady increase in EPI (DPT3 coverage
of 89% including HSb) is due to the significant contributions of JICA and GAVI

Since chloroquine resistance reached levels >50% there was a switch to Sulfadoxine-
pyrimethamine (SP), but some is of low quality (even the quantity supplied by MoH).

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


                Domain                                       Issue                             Recommendations
                                               Health System Administration
Annual setting of priorities among MoH's It is currently focusing on frequency of  Use the Burden of Diseases Profile
activities                               health problems, severity, feasibility of (derived from the frequency and ranking
                                         case management and population's point of health problems), supported by a
                                         of view. HERA Review Team considered simple computerized methodology
                                         it to be inadequate                       developed by the TEHIP project.
Budget allocation formula                Until last year, it was norm-based, input Should validate the new formula: Age and
                                         oriented, and established on national     sex-weighted population (50%); Poverty
                                         Minimum Standards                         levels, based on the Poverty Welfare;
                                                                                   Index of the geographical area under
                                                                                   question (15%); An index of mileage, to
                                                                                   and within the LGA (15%); and Burden
                                                                                   of disease, to incorporate under-five and
                                                                                   adult mortality rates plus any others
                                                                                   available (20%)
Budget execution                         Lack of clear and concise guidelines      Need to review and streamline all
                                                                                   guidelines to avoid over-lapping and
                                                                                   incoherence.
                                         Local capacity is weak (council
                                         accountant overstretched or not qualified Support needs to be provided by Regional
                                                                                   Health Support Teams to improve the
                                                                                   capacity of local staff in health planning
                                                                                   and management. Zonal training centers
                                                                                   need to offer the necessary short-term
                                                                                   skill-building training modules in
                                                                                   planning management and quality care.

                                         Auditing of the first 37 districts during
                                         the first two year satisfactory. The third
                                         audit, covering 82 councils, provided a
                                         mixed picture




                                                             - 26 -

HMIS                                     The system is too detailed.                  System needs to be streamlined to an
                                                                                      essential package of information.
                                         Data collection at the periphery is weak     Computerized data entry (pilot program in
                                         not systematic, and handled manually         two districts) should be extended to all
                                                                                      districts.

                                                                                      Set as priority for Phase 2
                                                 Health care service delivery

Policy and disease specific control      There are too many sets of guidelines,       A review should be undertaken to avoid
guidelines                               incoherent and overlapping                   repetition and incoherence
Supervision                              Lack of supervision guidelines               Proper guidelines to be developed

                                         Supervision of peripheral health facilities Feedback of supervision report should be
                                         by DHMT was insufficient.                    properly documented and distributed.

                                         Supervision of districts by regional level Expand Regional Secretariat and RHMT
                                         was improper; lack of proper staff           technical capacity, and review their roles
Malaria                                  Low coverage in bed nets and                 Boost distribution, by encouraging
                                         re-impregnation                              activites like the Tanzania National
                                                                                      Voucher Scheme which permits pregnant
                                                                                      women to buy the bed nets at a significant
                                                                                      discount. Organize re-impregnation
                                                                                      campaigns and evaluate the
                                                                                      re-impregnation rate in Tanazania to
                                                                                      reorient bed net strategy if necessary

                                         Delay in shifting from CQ to effective       Given already high resistance to SP,
                                         first line treatment                         swiftly program shift from SP to ACT
IMCI                                     Shown to be effective in Tanzanian           Scale-up community IMCI country wide.
                                         context. Implemented in 28 districts.
Family planning                          Stagnated at 15% contraceptive               Boost CPR through community based
                                         prevalence rate for modern methods over distribution of oral contraceptives and
                                         the last years                               expansion of long duration methods.
Guidelines for Quality Assurance programBased on standards and norms for              Should be oriented towards assessing the
(developed under the office of the CMO, manpower, equipment and infrastructure quality of services measured against
and later disseminated)                  and routine inspection. There is a lack in standards and clients' perspective.
                                         monitoring the quality of services on a      Analyze and adapt the experiences of
                                         continuous basis.                            other QA cases like the one in Ghana
                                                   Level 2 and 3 hospitals
Autonomy of MMC                          Situation analysis done                      Simplify procedures and speed up process
                                         Revision of relevant legislation             for extension of Hospital reform to other
                                         Bill on the autonomy passed                  selected tertiary and regional hospitals.
                                         Executive Board installed.
MMC new management fee policy            The PPP steering group elaborating           Expand scope of service agreement to
                                         standard service agreement based on          include QA issues distinguish respective
                                         existing Designated District Hospitals oneroles    of district, region and central levels


Pharmacy Board set up pilot to provide   Accredited dispensing outlets authorized Carefully monitor quality assurance,
Accreditation to Drug Dispensing Outlets to sell drugs to public health facilities on scope, duration and price of the drugs that
(ADDO) to prevent them illegally selling recovered funds in case of drug shortage. can be purchased by health facility at the
prescription drugs.                                                                   outlet


                                    Role of Central MoH & Sector-wide Management
MTEF / Annual PER                        MoH in control of and provides               MoH should use the MTEF and the PER
                                         ownership of health sector activities.       as supports of advocacy for appropriate
                                         Budget estimates rose from 69.5% to          funding of the sector by MoF and donors




                                                           - 27 -

                                         79.3% of the FY03 budget (actual          given increased absorption capacity and
                                         expenditure, rose from 57.3% to 62.4%     existing huge financing gaps.
                                         between FY01 and FY02)
                                                                                   Develop medium term planning (3 years)
                                         Inadequate medium-term horizon and        and analyze past performance
                                         trend analysis.
MoH organized Regular meetings of:         Improved quality of dialog between      Basket funding (abandoned by DFID and
-        Annual Joint Review             donors and MoH, MoF and LGA.              attracted UNFPA) should be attractive
-        Basket financing committee and Joint financing system (disbursement,      enough to involve more donors and more
-        SWAp committee                  accounting, financial management, and     funding.
                                         reporting) progressively set in place.
                                         Basket expenditures disbursement rate
                                         improved (actual versus budgeted) from
                                         47% in FY01 up to 86.6% in FY02.


The following tables provide additional information as it relates to Program Costs and Disbursements:

      Table 2.2: Program Projected costs and Actual expenditures per financing sources
                                                  (in US$ millions)
                           2001          2002            2003            2004     Total 2001-2004
 GoT                      102.30       121.70          145.10         146.63                 515.73
  Actual                  125.01       144.30          172.91                                442.22
 Loans                      0.00          0.00           0.00                                   0.00
  Actual                    0.00          0.00           0.00                                   0.00
 Internally                 5.50          5.80           6.20            1.56                 19.06
 Generated
  Actual                    2.25          1.47           1.67                                   5.39
 External Aid -IDA         20.00         35.00          50.00         105.05                 210.05
 credit included
  Actual                   12.87         23.19          32.28            3.11                 71.44
 Total                    127.80       162.50          201.30         253.23                 744.83
                          140.13       168.96          206.86            3.11                519.06


n.b.: Actual expenditure data is from the final draft of the Health Sector PER update FY2004, unless otherwise
noted; and program projected cost is from PAD page 60. The amounts from 2004 are actual data; estimated data is
available from PER update FY2004

                  Table 2.3: Disbursement into Health Account and IDA financing
                                           (in US$ million equivalent)
                  All Sources                                                              IDA
   Year       Health      Project       Total    Exchange Health              Project      Total       % of     % of Total
               Fund        Direct                    rate        Fund          Direct                 Health
             (Basket                               (TSh/$)      (Basket                                Fund
               Fund)                                             Fund)
   2001           12.87      106.05      118.91       826.15          0.00        2.28        2.28      0.00%        1.92%
   2002           23.19      105.54      128.73       930.34          0.16        4.46        4.62      0.70%        3.59%
   2003           32.28       86.92      119.19       999.71          6.28        4.96       11.24     19.45%        9.43%

n.b.: Data for the above table is from the final draft of the Health Sector PER update FY2004, unless otherwise
noted.
Contributions to the Health Fund are taken from MOH data.
Project direct data is calculated as the difference between the MOH data for the contribution to the Health Fund
and the Project data for disbursement.



                                                           - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
A health sector program integrated in GOT's 61% of external resources are on-budget              79.3% of external resources were on-budget
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework                for FY03% as per Public Expenditure Review per the FY02 Public Expenditure Review
(MTEF), with at least 50% of donor               (PER)                                           (PER). The FY03 PER will not be available
resources for the sector reflected in the                                                        until after the Project has Closed.
MTEF.*
District-based health planning and               i) Comprehensive District health Plans have     As of July 2003, all districts produce
management system and its financing              been prepare by all of the 37 councils and      comprehensive plans and receive grants
through block grants, that are linked to         block grants allocatied on this basis to these against these plans.
outputs, outcomes and performance, tested        districts/councils and ii) For Phase 2 and 3 ,
and operational in at least 30% of the 113       these processes are ongoing
districts.*
National guidelines for an Essential Health                                                      i) The national guidelines for an EHP have
Package completed, costed, district                                                              been developed and costing done ii) Training
management teams trained for its use, and                                                        guidelines have been developed being used.
quality assurance program in place.*                                                             iii) A District level training is ongoing. iv)
                                                                                                 Access to drugs and training strengthened
                                                                                                 and v) supervision improved
Performance-based budgeting and                                                                  Quartery progress reports are submitted by
monitoring at the central level introduced and                                                   districts to monitor progress in the
tested.                                                                                          implementation of the district health plans
                                                                                                 based on the 19 performance indicators
                                                                                                 established
For HIV/AIDS, high level national bodies         A national HIV/AIDS fund fully operational      i) HIV/AIDS policy in place ii) TACAIDS
(NABA, NAC, NACP) to oversee the                 and financing approved projects.                establish to coordinate national response iii)
multi-sectoral response, strengthened in staff                                                   NMSF developed and HIV/AIDS
and fully functional.*                                                                           maistreamed into sectors
% of children under one year old receiving       75%                                             85%
DPT3 is increased from 71.0% in 1996 to
75% in 2003.
% of population satisfied with quality,          50% positive response                           This indicator has not yet been measured,
quantity, access, affordability and availability                                                 but anecdotale evidence suggests that the
of preventive, curative and referral health                                                      population is more satisfied, particularly as
services (baseline and target figures to be                                                      drug availability has improved.
established).


Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                 i) 37 plus all remaining in the process ii) 37  As of July 2003, all districts produce
(i) No. of districts trained in district-based   plus all remaining districts in the process and comprehensive plans and receive grants
planning and management.                         37 plus all remaining districts in the process  against these plans.
(ii) No. of districts with approved health
plans.
(ii) No. of districts producing quarterly
financial and physical progress reports in a
timely manner with satisfactory quality.
(i) MMC reform: Legislation & regulation for     (i) MMC management restructured. Capacity Less progress has been made in this area
restructuring approved. Management               building implemented. (ii) Strategies and       that was envisioned. Hospital reforms have
restructured. Capacity building implemented action hospitals for other reform hospitals          thus been prioritized under th 2nd Health
as in the action plan.                           approved and new management structure in        Sector Strategic Plan which is to be
(ii) Reform of tertiary/regional hospitals:      place.                                          supported by the 2nd Phase of the APL.
Strategies & action plans approved. New
management in place.
A policy/strategy for private sector             (A policy/strategy for private sector           A bill has been passed on practice of
collaboration drafted in a consultative          collaboration drafted in a consultative         traditional medicine and private practice.
manner.                                          manner.                                         Privare providers are being accredited to
                                                                                                 deliver care and drugs under the national
                                                                                                 health insurance fund ( NHIF)
A sector program integrated in the MTEF.         PER and MTEF processes fully established        This target has been fully achieved.




                                                                    - 29 -

Reform strategy for the new role of central    in the sector with improved reporting ,
MoH developed. Legislation/regulations         monitoring and evaluation systems
reviewed/revised. QA guidelines developed.
Annual reporting of sector program
implementation. Annual joint reviews carried
out.
Decreased stock-out rates of (selected)                                                  A rehabilitation plan for primary health
essential drugs/supplies at public health                                                facilities prepared and approved. Percentage
facilities. Assessment of the public health                                              of health facilities with designated malaria
facility network. A realistic & affordable                                               drugs in stock has increased to 25%. HMIS
infrastructure investment/maintenance plan.                                              however remains weak and a target for
Hospital HMIS operational.                                                               Phase II.
Database for human resource for health                                                   There is shortage of both number and skills
(HRH). Five-year plan for HRH                                                            in the district staff. Recruitment of district
reviewed/updated. Remuneration and                                                       staff lags and authorization to fill vacant posts
incentive packages for health workers                                                    are not addressesd in a uniform manner
reviewed/revised. Curricula for all cadres                                               nationawide.
revised as needed. Zonal centers
strengthened.
(i) % of recurrent GoT budget for health. (ii)                                           - Recurrent GOT budget for health was 83%
% of user fees generated from the Cost                                                   in FY02
Sharing Program to total non-salary recurrent                                            - % of user fees generated not yet
expenditures. (iii) NHI established. (iv) CHF                                            determined
replicated with declining start-up costs. (v)                                            - NHI established.
Hospital DRF operational.                                                                - CHF replicated
                                                                                         - DRF operational
A multi-sectoral national HIV/AIDS fund                                                  Tanzania MAP is effective since October 15,
established & operational. Enhanced, more                                                2003 with a community AIDS response Fund
visible leadership and advocacy. Number. of                                              component to finance community/drived
high-impact, innovative, and/or                                                          HIV/AIDS response. More resources for
community-based AIDS-related programs                                                    HIV/AIDs eg Global Fund Clinton Foudation
financed & implemented. National AIDS                                                    are forthcoming.
strategy.(

1 End of project
Additional information is provided in ANNEX 10




                                                                   - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
2001 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                     1.81                 2.28                  126
2002 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                     3.69                 4.62                  125
2003 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                     7.70               11.24                   146
2004 PROGRAM OF WORK                                                     8.80                 3.11                   35

Total Baseline Cost                                                     22.00               21.25
                            Total Project Costs                         22.00               21.25
                    Total Financing Required                            22.00               21.25
Data is from the project disbursement schedule

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.06               0.00             0.00              0.06
                                       (0.00)             (0.06)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.06)
2. Goods                                0.24               0.22               0.05             0.00              0.51
                                       (0.24)             (0.22)             (0.05)           (0.00)             (0.51)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               0.43             0.00              0.43
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.43)           (0.00)             (0.43)
4. Incremental Costs                    0.00               0.00               5.60             0.00              5.60
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (5.60)           (0.00)             (5.60)
   Total                                0.24               0.28               6.08             0.00              6.60
                                       (0.24)             (0.28)             (6.08)           (0.00)             (6.60)



 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis at appraisal concluded that public sector involvement in the health sector
was justified and given the then prevailing sector constraints called for a comprehensive approach
of health sector reform under a sector-wide mode of program planning and financing. Consistent
with the 1995 Tanzania Social Sector Review and the CAS, the GoT would target its efforts in
the following domains: (i) decentralization and increased community participation; (ii)
concentration of fiscal resources on primary health care while ensuring a policy environment that
facilitates greater private participation in curative services; (iii) decentralize responsibility,
increase local resource mobilization, and rationalize expenditures; (iv) shift resources to child and
maternity care and preventive health services; and (v) shift authority to local agencies. The
proposed benchmark was increased rural access to primary health care.

The $ 21.3 million IDA contribution to the $ 654 million Program over the project period, i.e.;
3.7% percent of the total, constitutes a relatively small share compared to the GoT' share and to
some other donors. Moreover, the focus of Phase 1 of HSDP was on system improvement as
demonstrated by the Development Objectives, which were, except for the immunization coverage,
more oriented towards reform and process indicators. This was also true for the Program in
general and for most other "basket" donors. The following considerations apply to the total
program.

1. Planning and budgeting most of the sector resources using the MTEF, both at central and
    PORALG level, resulted in a dramatic improvement in the MoH efficiently allocating the
    resources across domains and across levels: preventive versus curative care, central and
    intermediate versus peripheral level; primary health care versus secondary and tertiary hospital
    level care. Furthermore, expanding a robust method to plan and budget activities using
    objective criteria (population, poverty, burden of diseases, logistical constraints) to all the
    districts countrywide over 3 years had an impact on allocative efficiency at district level.
2. The pooling of a significant portion of the foreign aid using a joint financing system
    (disbursement, accounting, financial management, and reporting) and jointly agreed
    procurement procedures has improved the efficiency of the health expenditures financed by
    development assistance. The increase in the volume of drugs purchased and channeled to the
    districts combined with an expanding cost-sharing system as well as setting in place drug
    revolving funds at hospital level improved drug availability countrywide. This at the cost of
    accessibility, particularly for the poor since the exemption system was not yet systematic.
3. All these improvements benefited the quality of health service delivery as demonstrated by the
    doubling of the percentage of population satisfied with quality of health services (from 30%
    prior to Phase 1 to 62% in the Household Budget Survey FY01). In view of the stagnating
    child mortality, despite excellent immunization coverage and a relatively high utilization rate,
    the impact from the above benefits may have been lessened due to the conjunction of the
    delayed decision regarding an appropriate first line malaria treatment and the high toll due to
    the spreading of the HIV/AIDS epidemic




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 1999                6    Economist, TTL
                                             Sr. Health Specialists (2)
                                             Health Economist
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             Procurement Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal August          8    Procurement Analyst
              ­ September 1999               Lead Financial Specialist
                                             Lead Procurement Specialist
                                             HIV/AIDS Specialist
                                             Sr. Economist (Health)
                                             Sr. Health Specialists (3)
              Negotiations
              November 1999

 Supervision
              December 2000             8    Sr Health Specialist                S               S
                                             Sr. Economist
                                             Legal Officer
                                             Disbursement Officer
                                             Sr. Procurement Specialist
                                             FM Specialists (2)
                                             Sr. Operations Officer
              March 2001                6    Sr. Health Specialist               S               S
                                             Lead Health Specialist
                                             Sr. Economist
                                             FM Specialist
                                             Task Assistant
                                             M&E Specialist
              November 2001             6    Sr. Health Specialist               S               S
                                             Sr. Economist
                                             FM Specialist
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Disbursement Assistant
                                             Task Assistant
              March 2002 (MTR)          6    Sr. Health Specialist               S               S
                                             Lead Implementation Specialist
                                             Health Specialists (2)
                                             FM Specialist
                                             TB Specialist
              December 2002             3    Sr. Health Specialist               S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             FM Specialist
              May 2003                  9    Sr. Health Specialist (2)           S               S



                                              - 33 -

                                            Sr. Nutritionist
                                            Sr. Economist
                                            FM Specialist (2)
                                            Procurement Specialist
                                            Nutrition/Community Health
                                            Specialists (2)
                                            Task Team Assistant


 ICR
               ICR                    7     Sr. Health Specialist (3)           S    S
                                            Operations Officer
                                            Task Team Assistants (3)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               85                        365,863
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                            148                         262,216
  ICR                                       8                         31,000
  Total                                  241                         659,079




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Community Health Financing Scheme in Tanzania
2.  Final Report of the Health sector Main Review 2002
3.  Health Care Under Community Health Financing in Songea Rural District
4.  Health Financing with a Focus on Exemptions: Iringa District Council Experience, First
    Annual DMOs Meeting held at Tanesco Training Centre, Morogoro June 9-15, 2003
5.  Health Sector PER, Update 2004
6.  How to Solve the Human Resources for Health Problems at Local Government Authority
    Level, Experience of CHF Mbinga District Council
7.  Human Resources for Health: Requirements and availability in the context of scaling-up
    priority interventions, A case study from Tanzania; Cristoph Kurowski, Salim Abdulla; and
    Anne Mills; October 2003.
8.  Implementation Completion Report, Tanzania Health and Nutrition Project Report No.
    19964
9.  Ministry of Health Vote 52 - Medium Term Expenditure Framework 2001/2002 -
    2003/2004
10. Ministry of Health Vote 52 - Medium Term Expenditure Framework 2002/2003 -
    2004/2005
11. National HIV Multisectoral Framework - final document
12. NHIF REPORT progress report
13. Project Appraisal Document, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program
14. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 1
15. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 2
16. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 3
17. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 4
18. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 5
19. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 6
20. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 7
21. Project Status Report, Tanzania Health Sector Development Program Sequence 8
22. PRSP Progress report 2002
23. Setting and Monitoring Health, Nutrition, and Population Goals from a Poverty Perspective,
    The Case          of Tanzania's Poverty Reduction Strategy; Davidson Gwatkin; July 2001
24. Technical Review of Health Service Delivery at District Level, HERA, March 2003.
25. Technical Review of Health Service Delivery at District Level, HERA, March 2004.
26. Progress report on implementation status on some of key milestones to facilitate improved
    performance in the health sector: Tanzania Joint Health Review 11-13 March 2003 Main
    Report
27. Supplemental Aide Memoire - March 12 - 30, 2001
28. Supervision Mission - March 20-31, 2000
29. Aide Memoire: Appraisal Mission - August 23 to September 03, 1999
30. Aide Memoire HSDP SPN - March 2001
31. Ministry of Health Vote 52 - Detailed Cash Flow for July 2002 - June 2003
32. Final PER Draft report Feb 2003
33. Tanzania Health Sector Joint Review, March 2004



                                              - 37 -

34. Tanzania Joint Annual Health Sector Review, March 15-7, 2004
35. Aide Memoire ­ Final: Supervision - December 4-12. 2003
36. Supervision Mission - November 12-16, 2001
37. Aide Memoire for the SPN and MTR of the HSDP - March 11 - 22, 2002
38. Aide Memoire HSDP Supervision Mission - March 10 - 26, 1999




                                          - 38 -

- 39 -

