Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3380 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 12, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3380 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 2000, between the UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received the following documents: (i) a letter 
from the Borrower, dated February 25, 2000, describing the Borrower’s Health 
Sector Reform, which constitutes the framework for improving health services in 
Tanzania; (ii) the three-year Program of Works (POW), dated June 1999, from the 
Borrower, part of which describes a program of actions, objectives, and policies 
designed to implement activities under the Borrower's Health Sector Reform for 
the Fiscal Years 1999 to 2002; and (iii) the Proposals for Health Sector Reform, 
dated December 1994 (the three documents collectively referred to as the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(C)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 12 years, 
the proceeds of such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the 
Program;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from various Donors (as hereinafter 
defined) grants and loans to assist in financing the Program;
(E)
the Borrower, the Association, and the Donors intend to enter into 
a Memorandum of Understanding providing for common procedures on procurement, 
disbursement, cooperation, and exchange of information; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below, (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes 
under the Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall, in 
its sole discretion, determine”; and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the 
word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end 
of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed 
by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Reviews” means the annual reviews referred to in Section I, 
paragraph 9 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Basket Financing Committee” means the committee, established on 
October 29, 1999, co-chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MOH (as 
hereinafter defined) and the Permanent Secretary of the MRALG (as hereinafter 
defined), consisting of senior officials of the MOH, the MRALG, the Ministry of 
Finance, and representatives of the Donors (as hereinafter defined), including 
the Association, and referred to in Section I, paragraphs 6 and 7 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(c)
“Beneficiaries” means the CHF Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter 
defined), the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined), and 
the Local Authority Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
“BOT” means the Bank of Tanzania established pursuant to the Bank 
of Tanzania Act, No. 12 of 1965, as amended;
(e)
“Central Subprogram" means the annual central program of activities 
included in the Program to be carried out in each Fiscal Year (as hereinafter 
defined) under Parts A, B, and C of the Project, as agreed upon between the 
Borrower, the Association, and any participating Donors, referred to in Section 
II, paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
"CHF" means Community Health Fund, a community-based prepayment 
scheme for basic health services;
(g)
“CHF Grants” means matching grants under Part C of the Project, 
made to CHF Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) to match the funds 
provided by such CHF Grant Beneficiaries to the CHF; 
(h)
“CHF Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Borrower and a 
CHF Grant Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) setting forth the terms and 
conditions under which CHF Grants shall be made available to the CHF Grant 
Beneficiaries under Part C of the Project;
(i)
“CHF Grant Beneficiaries” means district health boards determined 
to be eligible for CHF Grants and to whom or for whose benefit CHF Grants are 
made or proposed to be made;
(j)
"CHF Grant Manual" means the manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the terms and conditions under 
which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to the CHF Grant 
Beneficiaries under Part C of the Project;
(k)
"Donors" means, collectively, the Association, the Danish 
International Development Agency, the Department for International Development 
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Ireland Aid, the 
Norwegian Agency for International Development, the Swiss Agency for Development 
Cooperation, the Netherlands, and any other national or international agency 
contributing funds or technical assistance for the Program, and "Donor" means 
each and every donor individually;
(l)
"Fiscal Year” or “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower which 
commences on July 1 and ends on June 30 of the year immediately following;
(m)
"HIV/AIDS Fund" means the Borrower's national HIV/AIDS Fund to be 
set up by the Borrower to finance HIV/AIDS-related programs, proposed and to be 
implemented by the Borrower’s ministries, local government authorities, and 
NGOs;
(n)
"HIV/AIDS Fund Grants" means grants under Part D of the Project, 
made to HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) to finance 
activities under the HIV/AIDS Fund;
(o)
“HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the 
Borrower and an HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) setting 
forth the terms and conditions under which  HIV/AIDS Fund Grants shall be made 
available to the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries under Part D of the Project;
(p)
“HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries” means government entities and 
NGOs determined to be eligible for HIV/AIDS Fund Grants and to whom or for whose 
benefit HIV/AIDS Fund Grants are made or proposed to be made;
(q)
"HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Manual" means the manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the terms and 
conditions under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to the 
HIV/AIDS Fund under Part D of the Project, referred to in paragraph 3 (d) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(r)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office,  
established by the United Nations Development Programme;
(s)
“Local Authority Grants" means grants under Part A.1 of the Project 
made to Local Authority Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) to improve 
the access to, and the quality and efficiency of, district-based primary health 
services;
(t)
“Local Authority Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the 
MRALG  and Local Authority Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) setting 
forth the terms and conditions under which Local Authority Grants shall be made 
Page  4
available to the Local Authority Beneficiaries under Part A.1 of the Project;
(u)
“Local Authority Grant Beneficiaries” means elected city councils, 
municipal councils, town councils, and district councils, determined to be 
eligible for Local Authority Grants and to whom or for whose benefit a Local 
Authority Grant is made or proposed to be made;
(v)
"Local Authority Grant Manual" means the manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the terms and 
conditions under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to Local 
Authority Grant Beneficiaries under Part A.1 of the Project, referred to in 
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(w)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in Section I, 
paragraph 9 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(x)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health;
(y)
"MOU" or "Memorandum of Understanding" means the memorandum of 
understanding to be entered into by the Borrower, the Association, and the 
Donors, providing for common procedures on procurement, disbursement, 
cooperation, and exchange of information;
(z)
“MRALG” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Regional Administration 
and Local Government;
(aa)
“NGO” means a non-profit nongovernmental organization, operating 
within the Borrower's territories;
(bb)
"PIP" means the plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, to which is attached the MOU, containing, inter alia: (i) annual 
work plans and budgets approved by the Association and the Donors for each 
Fiscal Year; (ii) monitoring and performance indicators; (iii) details of all 
procurement and disbursement arrangements under the Project; (iv) guidelines and 
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementation of the Program and 
Project; and (v) such other administrative, financial, and organizational 
arrangements as shall be required, as the plan may be amended from time to time 
in consultation with the Association and the Donors, and such term includes any 
schedules to the PIP;
(cc)
“Pooled Funds” means funds deposited in the US Dollar Holding 
Account (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Donors in support of the 
Program;
(dd)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(ee)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreements 
signed (i) on behalf of the Association on July 22, 1999 and on behalf of the 
Borrower on August 3, 1999; and on behalf of the Association on March 27, 2000 
and on behalf of the Borrower on April 6, 2000;
(ff)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
(gg)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund; 
(hh)
"US Dollar Holding Account" means the account in the BOT, or 
another bank acceptable to the Association, set up for the purpose of holding 
the Pooled Funds, referred to in Section I, paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization.
Page  5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million, two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of any 
Beneficiaries under CHF Grant Agreements,  HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Agreements and 
Local Authority Grant Agreements, to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works, 
and services required for the CHF Grants, the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants and the Local 
Authority Grants under, respectively, Parts A.1, C, and D of the Project, and in 
respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in U.S. dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. 
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  6
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 2010 and ending 
April 1, 2040. Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, 
April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, and public health practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, including those for the Special Account, 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial management 
system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 
31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
Page  8
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for 
such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Program shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Program are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to 
the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management 
system satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the PIP; and
(d)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association an annual work plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, covering the period July 1, 2000, through June 
30, 2001.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
TREASURY
41329
(255-51) 
117790
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Page  10
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Central Subprograms
(a) Pooled Funds
Up to 1,500,000 in
50% of 
eligible
financing
the aggregate for the
expenditures 
under
expenditures,
period covering July
the Central Sub-
including civil
1, 2000 to June 30,
program or 
such 
works, drugs,
2001, and thereafter,
other 
percentage
equipment,
such amount as may
as the 
Association
vehicles, train-
be allocated for each
may determine 
from
ing materails
FY by the Association
time to time.
consultants'
services, studies,
training, and
incremental 
operating costs;
(b) Association
Up to 3,300,000 in
100% of 
eligible foreign
financing
the aggregate for
expenditures 
under the
expenditures,
the period covering
Central 
Subprogram or
including civil
July 1, 2000 to
such other 
percentage
works, drugs,
June 30, 2001, and
as the 
Association may
equipment, vehicles,
thereafter, such
determine from time to
training materails
amount as may be
time; and 90% 
of eligible
consultants'
allocated for each
local 
Page  11
expenditures under
services, studies,
FY by the Association
the Central 
Subprogram or
training, and
such other 
percentage as
incremental the 
Association may
operating costs;
determine from 
time to time.
and
(c) CHF Grants
Up to 350,000 in
100% of 
amounts disbursed
the aggregate for
the period covering
July 1, 2000 to 
June 30, 2001, and
thereafter, such
amount as may be
allocated for each
FY by the Association
(2)
Local Authority
Up to 100,000 in the
100% of amount disbursed
Grants
aggregate for the
period covering July 1,
2000 to June 30, 2001,
and thereafter, such
amount as may be
allocated for each
FY by the Association
(3)
HIV/AIDS Fund
   1,500,000
100% of 
amounts disbursed
Grants
(4)
Refunding of Project
   1,000,000
Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 
(c) of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   8,450,000
TOTAL
  16,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Program implementation, management, and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation, travel, 
and per diems, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil and 
public service;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means eligible expenditures as 
listed in the PIP and agreed to by the Association;
(c)
the term “Pooled Funds expenditures” means expenditures financed 
out of the US Dollar Holding Account; 
(d)
the term “Association financing expenditures” means expenditures 
solely financed by the Association;
(e)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  12
(f)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR 500,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1 (a), (b), 
and (c) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 1, 2000;
(b)
under Categories 1 (a) and (b), unless the Central Subprograms have 
been approved by the Association in accordance with, and subject to, the 
provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
under Category (2), unless such Local Authority Grants have been 
made (i) pursuant to the terms of the Local Authority Grant Manual; and (ii) in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 7 and 8 of Section 
II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
under Category (3), unless such HIV/AIDS Fund Grants have been made 
(i) pursuant to the terms of the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Manual; and (ii) in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of Section 
II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures for goods and services supplied 
under a contract which any national or international financing institution or 
agency, other than the Association, shall have financed or agreed to finance 
under any other credit or grant.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods and 
drugs under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) civil 
works under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (iii) 
consultants' services (firms) under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each;  (iv) consultants' services (individuals) under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) operating costs and training 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the 
resource management and quality of health services in the territory of the 
Borrower through health sector reforms and institutional capacity building.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Strengthening Health Service Delivery
The carrying out of Central Subprograms for:
1.
District Health Services
Improving the access to, and the quality and efficiency of, district-based 
primary health services by strengthening the planning and management capacity of 
decentralized district health and administration systems through the 
rehabilitation of health facilities and the provision of training, technical 
advisory services, equipment, drugs and medical supplies, and the provision of 
Page  13
Local Authority Grants.
2.
Regional and Tertiary Hospitals 
Strengthening and reorienting secondary and tertiary health services and 
improving the quality, efficiency, and financial viability of regional and 
tertiary hospitals, through rehabilitation of facilities, provision of training, 
provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of drugs and 
equipment.
3.
Promotion of Private Sector Involvement 
Increasing the promotion of private sector involvement in the delivery of 
health services through training of health service providers and the provision 
of technical advisory services.
Part B:
Strengthening the MOH and Central Support Systems  
The carrying out of Central Subprograms for:
1.
Strengthening the capacity of MOH in the areas of policy development, 
analysis and national planning, quality assurance, performance-based budgeting, 
performance monitoring and evaluation, development of health legislation and 
regulations, and the implementation and management of the Program, through the 
provision of equipment, training, and technical advisory services.
2.
Strengthening the national support system for drugs, medical supplies and 
equipment, infrastructure, health management information systems, and 
transportation management, through the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the 
provision of works, equipment, training, and technical advisory services.
3.
Strengthening of human resource development in the health sector through 
(a) the development and implementation of training programs for health workers 
in clinical, public health, and management skills, as well as hospital 
administration, including finance and budget; and (b) strengthening the capacity 
of local health training institutions through the rehabilitation of school 
infrastructure, acquisition of supplies and teaching materials, revision of 
curricula, retraining of trainers, and the provision of technical advisory 
services.
Part C:
Health Financing  
The carrying out of Central Subprograms for the strengthening of financing 
options and financial management of the health sector by developing and refining 
alternative financing mechanisms (including the establishment of a national 
health insurance scheme and the piloting of a revolving financing scheme for 
drugs), through the provision of CHF Grants, training, technical advisory 
services, and equipment.
Part D:
HIV/AIDS  
1.
Strengthening the institutional framework and capacity of the Borrower to 
manage and coordinate the national and multi-sectoral responses to HIV/AIDS, the 
establishment of a modality for effective coordination and advocacy, and the 
identification of best practices to minimize the negative impacts of the 
epidemic, through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and 
equipment.
2.
Carrying out of HIV/AIDS-related programs proposed by HIV/AIDS Fund Grant 
Beneficiaries, through the provision of HIV/AIDS Fund Grants.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  14
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 and September 1997 and January 1999, (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for 
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
3.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures 
Page  15
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000, may 
be procured from UNICEF, WHO, and other specialized agencies of the United 
Nations, and goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000, may be procured from IAPSO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts A and C of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines 
and
procedures acceptable to the Association.  
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) the first three contracts for goods, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more; and (ii) the first three contracts 
for works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and
(b)
Thereafter, with respect to each contract for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
Page  16
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for simple assignments may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits and non-complex engineering estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for consultants may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants to be employed may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under each Subprogram shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
Page  17
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Section I:
General Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Program in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the PIP and, except as the Association and the Donors shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, 
in the opinion of the Association and the Donors, such amendment, abrogation, or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Program.
2.
The Permanent Secretary of the MOH, in close cooperation with the 
Permanent Secretary of the MRALG, shall be responsible for the overall 
coordination, monitoring, and supervision of activities under the Project, 
including, inter alia, overseeing the health sector policy reform, coordinating 
the Central Subprograms, and coordinating the assistance from Donors to the 
Program.
3.
In order to facilitate implementation of the Project, the day-to-day 
monitoring and coordination of the Project shall be carried out by the Director 
of Health Policy and Planning of the MOH, in close cooperation with the Chief 
Medical Officer of the MOH and the Director of Local Government of MRALG.  
4.
The coordination and supervision of all accounting and financial matters 
under the Project shall be the responsibility of the Chief Accountant of the 
MOH.  The coordination and supervision of the procurement of goods, works, and 
services financed under the Program, including the reviewing of procurement 
procedures and processes, shall be the responsibility of the MOH Director of 
Administration and Personnel.  All professional accounting and procurement staff 
responsible for the implementation of the Project shall have terms of reference 
and qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and the Donors, an assessment of the health facilities network, 
and based on the results thereof, deliver a report setting forth a realistic and 
affordable strategy for health infrastructure development and maintenance to be 
financed under the Project.
6.
Basket Financing Committee
The Basket Financing Committee shall be responsible for (i) reviewing and 
approving annual work plans and budgets which are to be financed from the Pooled 
Funds; (ii) agreeing on the level of Donor funding; (iii) reviewing and 
approving the allocation and, if necessary, the reallocation of Pooled Funds; 
(iv) reviewing and approving quarterly progress reports related to any 
activities financed by the Pooled Funds; and (v) releasing the Pooled Funds for 
the following quarter.
7.
The Borrower shall, not later than six weeks after every quarter after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the 
Basket Financing Committee for its approval any activities to be financed 
through the Pooled Funds, to be carried out in the following quarter, modified 
in a manner satisfactory to the Basket Financing Committee, taking into account 
its comments and views on the matter. 
Page  18
8.
US Dollar Holding Account
The Borrower shall open and maintain in BOT or another bank acceptable to 
the Association the US Dollar Holding Account into which the Pooled Funds will 
be deposited.  The Pooled Funds shall be used exclusively for the purpose of the 
Program.
9.
Performance Indicators, Annual Reviews and Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Association and the Donors, (i) not 
later than March 31, 2001 and March 31, 2003, the Annual Reviews; and (ii) not 
later than March 31, 2002, the Midterm Review. The Annual Reviews and the 
Midterm Review shall cover, among other things (A) progress made in meeting the 
Project’s objectives; and (B) overall Project performance as measured against 
Project performance indicators;
(c)
The Borrower shall, at least three (3) weeks prior to the Annual 
Reviews and the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association (i) annual work plans 
and budgets, as well as (ii) a report describing the status of the items listed 
in paragraph (a) above and of Project implementation generally;
(d)
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) weeks after the Annual 
Reviews and the Midterm Review, revise the annual workplans and budgets and 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Annual 
Reviews and the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program; 
and
(e)
consolidate quarterly reports on the activities of the Project, 
financed through the Pooled Funds, not later than six (6) weeks after the end of 
each quarter, or such later date as the Association shall agree, and furnish 
reports to the Basket Financing Committee for its review and comments.  
10.
Procurement Audits
The Borrower shall, not later than six (6) weeks after the end of each 
Fiscal Year, or such later date as the Association shall agree, furnish to the 
Association an audit report on the procurement of goods, works, and consultants' 
services carried out under the Project, drafted by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association.
Section II:
Central Subprograms/Grants
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
 not later than August 15, November 15, February 15 and May 15 of 
each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, or such later date as 
the Association may agree, commencing on August 15, 2000, furnish to the 
Association for its approval the proposed Central Subprogram to be carried out 
in the following quarter, modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, 
taking into account its comments and views on the matter;
(b)
carry out, or cause to be carried out, each such Central Subprogram 
in accordance with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner 
satisfactory to, the Association and in accordance with the PIP; and
(c) 
not make any material change to the approved Central Subprogram 
without the prior approval of the Association.
2.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  19
Association shall not approve any proposal for a Central Subprogram furnished to 
it pursuant to subparagraph 1 (a) above unless and until:
(a)
the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to the Association 
an operational plan for the Central Subprogram, setting forth, inter alia, the 
activities to be carried out, any policy reforms and other measures to be 
implemented, the expenditures to be incurred, the sources of financing of such 
expenditures, and the procurement plan to be followed; and
(b)
the Association shall have been satisfied with the progress made to 
date in the carrying out of the current activities under the Central Subprogram 
to which the proposal relates on the basis of indicators referred to in Section 
I, paragraph 9 of this Schedule. 
3.
Eligibility Criteria for CHF Grants
No CHF Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of this 
Credit unless the Borrower has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the CHF Grant Manual, 
that the CHF Grant satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the CHF Grant 
Manual, including, in particular, the following:
(a)
the CHF Grant shall be for activities related to health, including 
small works and minor repairs of facilities; purchase of furniture, equipment, 
drugs and medical supplies; community-based preventative and health promoting 
activities; training of community members and medical/clinical staff in the 
ward; 
(b)
the CHF Grant shall be initiated by CHF Grant Beneficiaries;
(c)
the CHF Grant shall be in compliance with the standards set forth 
in the applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety, and 
environmental protection, as well as the Association’s applicable guidelines.
4.
Terms and Conditions Regarding CHF Grants
Activities under the CHF Grants shall be carried out pursuant to CHF Grant 
Agreements, to be concluded between the Borrower and the legally established and 
authorized representative or representatives of the CHF Grant Beneficiaries, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, 
shall include the following:
(a)
financing by the Borrower on a grant basis, except that all CHF 
Grant Beneficiaries shall make a matching contribution as provided for in the 
CHF Grant Manual;
(b)
the obligation to (i) carry out the CHF Grants in accordance with 
the CHF Grant Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, environmental, and managerial standards; and (ii) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the CHF 
Grants;
(c)
the requirement that (i) the goods, works, and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, 
works, and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of activities 
to be financed by the CHF Grants;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association and the Donors, if the Association and the Donors shall so request, 
the goods, works, sites, plants, and construction included in the CHF Grants, 
the operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower 
or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
Page  20
operation, and financial condition of the CHF Grants; and
(f)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
CHF Grant Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Credit for the CHF Grants 
upon the failure by the CHF Grant Beneficiaries to perform any of their 
obligations under the relevant agreement.
5.
Eligibility Criteria for HIV/AIDS Fund Grants
No HIV/AIDS Fund Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of this Credit unless the Borrower has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant 
Manual, that the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant satisfies the eligibility criteria 
specified in the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Manual, including, in particular, the 
following:
(a)
the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants shall be for activities aimed at 
preventing HIV infection or mitigating the adverse impact of HIV/AIDS, 
including, inter alia, the dissemination of information on HIV/AIDS, the 
purchase and distribution of preservatives, home-based care of AIDS patients, 
and care for AIDS orphans;
(b)
the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants shall be initiated by HIV/AIDS Fund Grant 
Beneficiaries;
(c)
the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries shall have a proven track 
record in implementing the types of activities proposed; 
(d)
the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries shall submit a report after 
the completion of activities under the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants indicating the 
impact of such activities; and
(e)
the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants shall be in compliance with the standards 
set forth in the applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety, and 
environmental protection, as well as the Association’s applicable guidelines.
6.
Terms and Conditions Regarding HIV/AIDS Fund Grants
Activities under the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants shall be carried out pursuant to 
HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Agreements, to be concluded between the Borrower and the 
legally established and authorized representative or representatives of the 
HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing by the Borrower on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to (i) carry out the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants in 
accordance with the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Manual, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, and 
managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and 
expenditures in respect of the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants;
(c)
the requirement that (i) the goods, works, and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, 
works, and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of activities 
to be financed by the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association and the Donors, if the Association and the Donors shall so request, 
the goods, works, sites, plants, and construction included in the HIV/AIDS Fund 
Grants, the operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower 
or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
Page  21
operation, and financial condition of the HIV/AIDS Fund Grants; and
(f)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Credit for the 
HIV/AIDS Fund Grants upon the failure by the HIV/AIDS Fund Grant Beneficiaries 
to perform any of their obligations under the relevant agreement.
7.
Eligibility Criteria for Local Authority Grants
No Local Authority Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of this Credit unless the Borrower has determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Local 
Authority Grant Manual, that the Local Authority Grant satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified in the Local Authority Grant Manual, including, in 
particular, the following:
(a)
the Local Authority Grants shall be for activities related to the 
improvement of the quality of basic health services in districts, including the 
acquisition of drugs and medical supplies, the purchase of furniture and 
equipment for health services and community outreach activities, health 
education, preventive or promotive health services, training of the staff, 
monitoring and supervision of health activities in the district, minor civil 
works, and incremental operating costs;
(b)
the Local Authority Grants shall be initiated by Local Authority 
Grant Beneficiaries; and
(c)
the Local Authority Grants shall be in compliance with the 
standards set forth in the applicable laws of the Borrower, relating to health, 
safety, and environmental protection, as well as the Association’s applicable 
guidelines.
8.
Terms and Conditions Regarding Local Authority Grants
Activities under the Local Authority Grants shall be carried out pursuant 
to Local Authority Grant Agreements to be concluded between MRALG and the 
legally established and authorized representative or representatives of the 
Local Authority Grant Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing by the Borrower on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to (i) carry out the Local Authority Grants in 
accordance with the Local Authority Grant Manual, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, and 
managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and 
expenditures in respect of the Local Authority Grants;
(c)
the requirement that (i) the goods, works, and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, 
works, and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of activities 
to be financed by the Local Authority
Grants;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association and the Donors, if the Association and the Donors shall so request, 
the goods, works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Local 
Authority Grants, the operations thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower 
or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation, and financial condition of the Local Authority Grants; and
(f)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Local Authority Grant Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Credit for the 
Page  22
Local Authority Grants upon the failure by the Local Authority Grant 
Beneficiaries to perform any of their obligations under the relevant agreement. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), 
(1) (c), (2), and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent to $1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required, pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Page  23
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b), 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
