Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5136
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TA-ZANIA FISEERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 652-TA)
June 18, 1984
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document h2s a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CPS            Central Projects Staff (now OPS)
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DDC       =    District Development Corporation
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
KILIMO         Ministry of Agriculture
MNR       =    Ministry of Natural Resources
NCCO           National Cold Chain Organisation
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for International Development
OED       =    Operations Evaluation Department
ODA       =    Overseas Development Authority
PCR            Project Completion Report
PCU       =    Project Coordination Unit
RIDEP          Rural Integrated Development Project
RME&      =    Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
SAR       =    Staff Appraisal Report
TAFICO    =    Tanzania Fisheries Corporation
TRDB      =    Tanzania Rural Development Bank



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 652-TA)
PROJECT CC0IPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ....................                                             i
Basic Data Sheet ................           ..........    ii
Highlights ..............  06*000...**  ...  ....   iii
1.      Background .................,,........................... 1
II.    Project Formlain u...................                             4
III. The Project.....0 .....**..   8
IV.    Iplmepato e........................                              10
V.   Project Impac..........                                            19
VI.    Institutional Perfornancee................. ......               20
VII.   IDA Performzance ...... 9... o....-.... . ......                 22
VIII.  Conclusions ....... 0*..     .......... **..** .......*...    23
MAP 11795 - Tanzania Fisheries Development
I This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



- i -
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 652-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the project completion report (PCR) for the Fisheries
Development Project, for which Credit 952-TA was approved in July 1976 for
the sum of US$9 million. IDA indicated its willingness in September 1981
to extend the closing date of December 31, 1981 to June 30, 1984, subject
to several satisfactory steps in project implementation; but these were not
achieved and the credit account was closed on September 13, 1983; USS4.82
million was cancelled at that time.
This PCR was prepared by the Eastern Africa Projects Department,
Southern Agriculture Division, in July 1983. The PCR was prepared on the
basis of information available in the EAP Department.  The sources of
information for the PCR were: Appraisal Report No. 963a-TA dated March 8,
1976; President's Report July 12, 1976; supervision reports, correspondence
with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda as contained in relevant Bank
files. The PCR was received by OED on October 18, 1983.
The Project was not selected for audit by OED and the PCR was
sent to the Borrower for comment on April 13, 1984; however, no comments
were received.



- 11 -
MVEIL - lP lMm  1zAMm  mm.a rfedlt 652.O)
IWIC DM Suzr
Acbal ar                 Abaa _ 2
Appndid                    Estimated               ao Appmis
Pm                                                                                                     47: e^ 
Pn.eca COt (Us {M1)                              IL4                       5.B                        47
cm_t lMt( gIESll)                                9.0                        4.2                       47
Date &wd  Apprtul                                                        07/01/76
*          Dote B odsw                                                             (0711276
1Dot Efciine                                                             10112176
lkte Rjmo3 G      _poc G-pltd                  Mb/30/8                   I31/8
-           sar prtly  1iralI
ftzportia lhin Coileted (2)             100"/;lINb/;lOw/           39:Obl;ZIP/
*                                                         T     iDae  i              9//83 
Em c Rote aE Renm CZ)                           27                     p    ly Mctw                  rdl
Fi s w Rave of heir. (2)                     2E/.Ze1.Z3c/ r1A Uy mgp1w                               nid
huziztiul Perfofen                            Amte                        poW
Tedudal Perfaone                               A                           pOW
CMUME DISOLFS09M                  ~~~~~~~FY77      FMX,       FM7           F 18         FMt        F111    FMn
App-d Eate (I5E a.1Um)                            1.2           4.2                                   -9          = 
AcauL (US$-"i tm)                                04             0.2         0.6           1.5          2.7        3.3    4.2
_ala Z of Esdumre                                 8              5          9             19          30          -       -
rhz ot Pinal D Jswmi                            5126m
MilSS1  l WA
H - day.     arfI m           mm                 l1p  of
ua lm .aH cf ID              in field    d         d            T Tree      frebIjZ
iitet1fka ff1c~p..-im                 f bf      4              40          N/A
Ap*_1md                           M175           4             128       FA (2) F 72)
SIttot                                           a             168
SI _V1s UI                        1/76           2              35       FA    r           2         -             -
SqevlBInM2                        06/            2              18       FA    r           2          2            n
Sqmersimu3                        10/7l          I               1.      FA                2          2            1
su5viy3 4                         mm78           2              21       VA    C           2          1            T
S ,visim 5                        56/78           1              2       FA                2          I            T
S5 ;vislm 6                       10/78          2              22       ER    r           2         2             n T
s tv1s1o 7                       mm/79           1              11       FA                2         2             N T
Supecw1 a8 i/                     07179          2              25       rA    r           -         -
S5dvilsn 9                        03179          2              25       PA    P           2         2             NT
5pawlm        10                  mm11           1              14       PA                2         2             1 T
S         1islm                 (709/8          2              28       FA    F           2         3             n T
SqmeAid 12 1/                     11/M1          1               7       PA                -         -             _
S&pwviim 13                      05/81           1              12       PA                3         2             FMT
Secnwlmjm 14 ii                   01I8           1               3       FA                     -           -
s5Vendrvl     15                 03/             2              12       PA    F           3         2             FnT
S*.di..n 16                       10J82          I               5       PA                3         2             FHnT
subal                                            Z              2a
*  TOWal                                        32              424
alm PwM  --M
Erdtd arphle of T.ida
Emtie Apnq                       Ixdmry of Nota  3ea5nP; Twmla Fte               1Iew1aM COCECdm; -d TbMi. auzm  MdOP-  BE*
F1mlB  Jwuay I - je30
xw of a wuwy( Ab*_}mvIda:        T.na Shatlll   C(ab.)
GC4ry -    R-
"calwal YAvr aF              1975       I$ 1.00 - 8&05
Iat. jW   Y- A-=W            1975-1902  2s$ 1.0I   - 8.2
tOplccim TY   ^ura           1982       IIS 1.00- 9.1
a1   ooCal fSlddm    -
SI pio f1jd   rce.
I/ UJin doF 1u pteSg
/  PA - Vsandl Aalyst; F - Flaeqy 24mt; C - Co ,enltmt
'e   I -   ftobae.41w cr aghr  prbl; 2 - I1     prd,1; -d 3 - Ibja probim.
T/  I - rzrodz; 2- Z=.Uer3. ad 3 - Der1matm.
1 f   - r pI.I; n - Ibmhexa; T - Teutl  P - PoliFimam ad 0- Odm.
W/  Doe- c tcd.e project prpim    d-w lf de Co          -.
tSinir  aIr    ewfid



- il -
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 652-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.        The Fisheries Development Project, approved by the Baord in 1976,
was designed to support the establishment and development of commercial
fisheries at selected centres, improve fishing techniques and marketing
data and provide the basis for fisheries development in the traditional
sector by supporting a Dilot fisheries program for Ujamaa villages on Lake
Tanganyika.
2.        Except for partial initiation of commercial fisheries and the
Ujamaa pilot program and collection of some marketing data, none of the
project objectives have been achieved to date. Major problems (including
some which should have been resolved during appraisal and negotiations)
were encountered in implementing the project. Implementation of lake
Fisheries component was frustrated by numerous complications, e.g.,
difficulties encountered in the establishment and management of a joint
venture company (paras 4.03 and 4.06), and the type and design of boats to
be provided under the project (paras 4.04 and 4.05). This component was
dropped in the fifth project year (para 4.06). Only two of three coastal
centres were established with some onshore facilities financed under the
project (para 4.08). Establishment of a third commercial centre (at
Mtwara) was not proceeded with because of uncertainty about fish resource
potential. Delivery of 10 boats (30 were originally planned) ordered for
the coastal centres started close to the original Project Closing Date
(December 1981); however, no significant fishing operations had commenced
as of the last supervision mission in October 1982 (para 4.11). Investment
programs for the 5 approved Ujamaa villages (20 villages were included in
the project) had not been completeA as of October 1982 (paras 4.13 and
4.14). The Lake Transport program was not implemented because of adequacy
of alternate facilities provided by the Government (para 4.15). The
Marketing Study was completed after the original Project Closing Date of
December 1981 (para 4.16) while the Pollution Study did not get off the
ground (para 4.17). Many changes to perceived technical assistance needs
were made during implementation to fit project requirements (para 4.18,
4.19 and 4.20).
3.        Pending final accounting, total project costs are estimated at
about US$5.8 million compared to the SAR's estimate of US$12.4 million. No
financial results are available to make meaningful comparison with the
projections made at project appraisal or a re-evaluation of the rates of
return, though the latter have most probably been negative. Accounting and
project reporting were poor during most of the implementation period.



-iv -
4.        The only apparent project success was the training provided by
technical assistance personnel to the staff of coastal centres and
fishermen in the villages. The principal weaknessess were the lack of
attention given to progress in physical implementation of the project, poor
accounting and project implementation reporting, and weak cooperation from
the Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO), one of the key institutions
involved in the project implementation. IDA performance in retrospect has
been weak (PCR Chapter VII). Four main lessons were learned:
(a) country capability (institutional, manpower, financial and
physical resources) is key to successful project
implementation and in designing projects particular
attention should be given to resource availability;
(b) the basic institutional framework required for project
implementation should be present and not left to be
developed during implementation (e.g. creation of commercial
fishing centres);
Cc) common understandings on important issues should be
established prior to or during negotiations and
appropriately reflected (e.g., type and design of boats,
establishment of a new commercial centre at Kigoma, location
of marine fishing centres);
(d) pertinent data having significant impact on project scope
and design should be developed prior to project
implementation (e.g., fish resource potential at Mtwara and
market study).



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 652-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      General.  Agriculture is the dominant sector in the Tanzanian
economy. It contributes 85Z to export earnings, accounts for 40% of GDP
and supports 90% of the population. Since the early 1970s the agricultural
sector has experienced a severe decline and the agricultural surplus needed
to support development in other sectors has fallen drastically. To what
extent this development is the result of drought and external factors
beyond the control of the Government and to what extent these external
factors have precipitated a crisis which stems from economic policies and
other internal problems and shortcomings is a central and debatable
question for both the Government and the donor community 1/.
1.02      In the 1960s and early 1970s Tanzania underwent a reassessment of
its development objectives and strategies. The Arusha Declaration of 1967
and related policy statements reaffirmed Tanzania's commitment to a
socialist society and identified the Ujamaa village as a means of effecting
self-reliance and a community approach to development. To accomplish these
goals, the Arusha Declaration emphasized that the state, with guidance from
the Party, should play a leading role, especially in the creation of
appropriate institutions. The government emphasized an approach to rural
development which on one hand transformed the organization of peasant
agriculture through village formation (Ujamaa) and, on the other hand,
brought about an increasing degree of Government intervention in the sector
and in the supporting services for agriculture. These institutional
changes altered the framework and organization within which agricultural
production would occur. Among the critical changes were the villagization
(Ujauaa) schemes and the decentralization of Government whereby regional
authories were given control over Government programs and the distribution
of services within their regions.
1.03      Ujamaa Village.  The Ujamaa village was seen as a vehicle for
providing economies of scale in delivering inputs and social services,
which would improve the lives of rural people. The ultimate objective was
that Ujamaa villages become multipurpose cooperative societies with powers
to own land and borrow. Most villages have been formed by physical
resettlement. The precise pattern of development within each Ujamaa
village has been left to the villages themselves to decide, and Ujamaa
development has varied considerably among regions. The extent of
collective activity also varies among villages, ranging from a
predominantly communal or block farm approach to one which continues
traditional individual family farms with a small communal venture for
1/ Tanzania Agricultural Sector Report, August 19, 1983.



- 2 -
cash. On the one hand, there has been some dissatisfaction and opposition
to Ujamaa, particularly by farmers in areas where proximity to plantings
and personal stewardship of assets were disrupted. On the other hand, the
process has been accompanied by notable achievements in the broadening of
health and education services.
1.04      Decentralization.  Under the reorganization of government carried
out in 1972, the regional and district administrations were made directly
responsible for most aspects of rural development. The regions were
authorized to prepare and implement their own development programs, and
were given a high degree of autonomy in regional administration. However,
the Prime Minister's Office has continued to provide overall policy
direction, assistance in preparing their development programs, and
coordination in regional plans and budgets. Significant developments
resulting from the decentralization exercise have been: the transfer of
extension staff administration to the regional authorities (while Ministry
of Agriculture (KILIMO) and Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) maintain
control over the technical aspects of extension); and the scattering of
scarce skilled personnel throughout regional offices.
1.05      Parastatals.  Official policy dictated an increased Government
Intervention in the means of production, marketing and distribution of
agricultural products. The specialized narketing boards were, thus,
transformed into parastatal crop authorities with wider functions and
responsibilities. The Intended role for the parastatals was to function as
a countervailing force to private middlemen, but after their establishment
they were soon given monopoly control over major crops. The structure,
organization and operations of parastatals vary, but generally the tendency
has been to expand their role into production, extension services,
financing, licencing, grading, processing, importing and exporting the
primary products. The rapid increase in the number of parastatals and
their expanded role combined with the low level of skilled and experienced
manpower available in the country has resulted In inadequate staffing of
key posts and weak management and persistent financial weakness.
1.06      Manpower Constraints.  Lack of experienced and skilled manpower
has clearly been one of the major constraints in Tanzania's development
process. Available manpower resourcefs have been grossly inadequate for the
overly ambitious and often redundant or overlapping roles assigned to the
parastatals. Africanization of civil service has further increased the
competition and demand for the limited number of skilled people within the
country.
The Fisheries Sub-Sector
1.07      Tanzania has substantial fish resources in the territorial waters
of Lakes Tanganyika and Victoria as -well as limited resources available
from the coastal inshore waters of the Indian Ocean. At the time of
project development the need to exploit these resources was being felt.
Government had formulated a long-term fisheries development plan and had
charged the Fisheries Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources with
Its implementation. As a part of this effort studies were carried out
under a UNDP/FAO project in the Kigoma region to assess the standing stocks
and potential sustainable annual yield from the Tanzanian part of Lake



- 3 -
Tanganyika and it was expected that similar investigations in other areas
of the country would be undertaken with UNDP, FAD and bilateral support.
1.08      Fishing in Tanzania is carried out by two distinct groups;
commercial operators using motorized vessels and traditional fishermen who
account for about 90% of the production. Commercial fisheries are
generally organized in small companies, most of which are owned by regional
and district development corporations.2/ Traditional fishermen living
along the coast and near the various inland lakes usually also cultivate
small subsistance farm plots.
1.09      About 25% of total fish production comes from marine fishing, and
75Z from inland lakes and other fresh water sources. The marine fish are
generally sold fresh, while inland production Is sold both fresh and
dried. Market expansion especially for lake fisheries is limited by the
distances from the landing points to the major consumer centres; access to
certain lake areas by road is almost totally lacking, and rail facilities
likewise are inadequate. Between 5% and 10% of total production is
commercially marketed. Both the wholesale and retail trade are almost
entirely in the hands of private traders, although some wholesaling of
fresh fish is carried out by the parastatal organizations, National Cold
Chain Organization (NCCO) and Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO).
1.10      Government services to the fisheries sub-sector are the
responsibility of the Fisheries Division of the Ministry of Natural
Resources. This Division administers an extension service organized on a
regional and district level, with policy direction and technical support
provided by the Ministry. The regional fisheries staff are headed by a
Regional Fisheries Development Officer; he supervises District Fisheries
Officers who have under them Field Officers, Assistant Field Officers, and
Field Assistants. The extension service operates a few mobile fishing
units 3/ on the major lakes; these units are used to demonstrate improved
fishing techniques and to train local fishermen in their use.
1.11      Tanzania Fisheries Corporation was established in 1974 as a
parastatal with responsibility for the support and development of
commercial fishing. At the time of appraisal it was expected that TAFICO
would assume responsibility for Government boat building and net making
programs; 4, TAFICO then operated four large and several smaller boat
building yards. The larger yards were considered to be capable of
constructing boats of 10-15 meters, and there were plans to expand these
facilities. Lack of wood-working machinery and workshop equipment and the
*         small number of skilled craftsmen and mechanics available were identified
at appraisal as the main factors inhibiting the expansion of boat building
capacity. It was expected that TAFICO would not undertake large scale
2/ The District Development Corporation (DDC) was introduced in the
mid-1960's as the local counterpart of the centrally organized
parastatals. A DDC is a limited liability company and is the
commercial wing of the District Development and Planning Committee.
Its objectives are to stimulate commercial activity in the District by
participation in business enterprises.
3/ Each unit consists of a net and gear specialist, an engine operator
mechanic, two fishermen and a team leader.
4/ There are no significant privately owned boatyards.



- 4 -
fishing operations on its own 5/ but would participate jointly with
District Development Corporations or other interested parties.
1.12      At the time of appraisal a number of research and training
efforts under the auspices of the Fisheries Division were underway, some of
them receiving considerable assistance from bilateral donors. A fisheries
training program for Field Officers was being carried out at Kunduchi. A
vocational training institute at Mbegani supported by NORAD was expected to
be operational shortly. Some on-the-job training was provided at TAFICO
boatyards. The Fisheries Division had also initiated a number of research
progiams and pilot studies. Research stations had been established at Lake
Victoria (assisted by Netherlands Development Aid) and at Lake Tanganyika
(assisted by UNDP/FAO).
1.13      The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB), created in 1971, has
responsibility for agricultural credit. TRDB is intended to operate as a
reasonably independent institution and has been used as the credit channel
for a number of IDA credits. Under the project TRDB was assigned an
important role in the choice of villages under the Ujamaa village fisheries
program in addition to its role as a credit vehicle for other project
components. Credit control within TRDB has been weak due to lack of
experienced and qualified staff at all levels. However, at the time of
appraisal TRDB, with additional technical assistance and recruitment of
local staff, was expected to develop adequate capacity to prepare
large-scale credit projects suitable for external financing.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Identification and Preparation
2.01      During an RHEA agricultural identification mission in December
1972, a number of project possibilities were proposed and discussed.
Included in these proposals was a possible fisheries development project.
As proposed by the Fisheries Division the project would include: (i)
development of Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and Tanga as deep water ports; (ii)
expansion of the local boat building industry; and (iii) development of
inland fisheries, of which part of the Lake Tanganyika fisheries would be
Included in the Kigoma Regional Development Project.
2.02      In September/October 1973, a Norwegian consulting firm completed
its investigation, financed by NORAD, of prospects for a possible IDA
financed fisheries project. The firm, which had been originally engaged by
NORAD to investigate a range of possible NORAD financed projects, undertook
an effort at identification of a project for IDA support at IDA's request.
As a general conclusion, the consulting firm recommended against any IDA
investment in any project preparation at that time as it did not find any
suitable investment opportunities. The consultants' recommendation was
based on the following major findings:
5/ Because of its responsibility for the development of shrimp fishing on
the coast, TAFICO's involvement in fishing activities with bilaterally
provided vessels was not completely ruled out.



- 5 -
-    a comprehensive boat-building program which was given top
priority by the Government, was likely to go ahead without
IDA funds;
-    except for Lake Victoris and partly Lake TangNnyika, the
resource knowledge was highly limited to determine with any
certainty the eventual size of the needed new fleet and the
associated financial commitment; likewise, the size of
future investment in fish receiving stations, ice machinery,
e                            etc., could not be determined until extensive fishing trials
were undertaken.
The consultants, however, concluded that in about 2-3 years time, if the
natural resources base proves to be promising, there might well be a need
for IDA involvement in boat-building, processing and distribution
facilities.
2.03      Subsequent IDA missions questioned the consultants'
recommendation on the basis that they had paid very little attention to the
identification of a possible project and suggested a second opinion before
deciding on a posture. In response to continued Government lnterest in IDA
investment in the fisheries sector, a IDA identification mission visited
Tanzania in June 1974 and reached agreement on the broad outline of a
possible fisheries project. The three sub-projects proposed for further
identification and preparation were: (i) the development of commercial
shrimp industry primarily for export; (ii) the development of Lake Victoria
fisheries primarily at village level through credit to assist in
mechanization of small scale fisheries, better fish handling and processing
methods and provision of marketing inErastructure; and (iii) the
development of small scale commercial fisheries on the northern part of
Lake Tanganyika through credit for boat building equipment, motorized
vessels, fishing gear and improvements in fish handling and transportation
facilities.
2.04      The preparation report, prepared by staff of TAFICO and the
Fisheries Division assisted by two UNDP advisors, was received in the Bank
in January 1975. It included the following major components:
(i) five coastal fishing centres with ten 10 m boats each to
catch table fish and prawns;
(ii) five fishing centres at Lake Victoria to catch
haplochromis 6/;
(iii) two fishing centres at Lake Tanganyika to catch dagaa 7/;
and
(iv) provision of technical services.
Each request for fishing centres included a substantial element of road
construction costs. Overall cost of the project was estimated at USS 20
million of which about USS 4.5 million was for roads.
6/ A small honey fish coamon to some of the larger lakes, particularly
Lake Victoria, of Tanzania.
7/ Dagaa is the local name for a small sardine like fish found in Lake
Tanganyika.



-6 -
Appraisal, Negotiations and Board Approval
2.05      The appraisal mission visited Tanzania from June 9 to July 6,
1975. Prior to its departure no major issues were raised by the mission.
2.06      In the Issues Paper dated July 31, 1975, the mission indicated
that the MNR was weak and there was a lack of coordination between the
Ministry and the regional offices on fisheries development plans, and that
TAFIC0 had not yet developed into a fully operational parastatal. For these
reasons the mission recommended what was considered to be a simple project
design though even it required technical assistance. The paper also
pointed out the apparent lack of coordination between the donor community
and the Government in the support to the fisheries sector. The Decision
Meeting was held on August 8, 1975, and it was agreed to go ahead with the
appraisal report on the basis of the following major project components:
(i)    Coastal Fisheries.  The number of fishing centres to be
reduced from 5 to 3;
'ii) Lake Tanganyika. Only one fishing centre to be included;
(iii)  A Ujamaa Component.  This component was not in the
preparation report but was identified by the mission 8/;
(iv)   Research and Investigation.  A marketing survey to assess
market potential, prices and logistics for Lake Tanganyika
and Lake Victoria production.
gv)    Lake Victoria.  This component was dropped by the
Appraisal Mission because at that time no effective
research in the catch rates of haplochromis had been
done;
8/  The component would mainly comprise 100 8m-boats and fishing gear to
cover about 10X of the Ujamaa fishermen operating on Lake Tanganyika.
Marketing of the dried fish produced by village catches would be done
by lake transport, consisting of 2 tugs and 4 barges and would be
operated by the Kigoma Joint Venture Co. to be formed under the
Project. The CPS representatives at the Decision Meeting cautioned
that a full-scale investment for the Ujamaa component might be
premature for the following reasons: (i) in the Kigoma Rural
Development Project approved in August 1974 a similar component had to
be substantially reduced; (ii) pilot tests with the new type of boat
should be conducted before a decision to go ahead with the component;
(iii) further studies were needed to firm up marketing arrangements and
the impact of increased production on prices; (iv) lack of knowledge
even on the part of government officials, about how villages actually
function made it impossible to make detailed assumptions about
village-level organization and operations; and (v) a full scale
investment project should not proceed until the results of the ongoing
Kigoma-based UNDP Project were available. The meeting, stating that
the SAR adequately reflected a flexible and experimental approach,
agreed that this component should proceed with a close review of its
size.



-7-
(vi) Technical Assistance. A coordinating technical officer
each for MNR and TAFICO and specific technical assistance
for each of the project components.
Project costs were estimated to be US$ 13.1 million (this estimate was
subsequently revised to US$ 12.4 million) of which US$ 9 million would be
financed by IDA.
2.07      The Loan Committee approved the project in January 1976 subject
to the following modifications: (i) the establishment of the Project
Coordination Comittee to be a condition of effectiveness; and (ii) the
detailed implementation program to be agreed during negotiations rather
than to be submitted to the Association within 3 months of credit
effectiveness as initially proposed in the SAR.
2.08      Negotiations took place from February 23 - 26, 1976.  The main
points discussed and agreed were:
-    coordinating functions of the project to be executed by the
Director of Fisheries in MWR rather than by the General
Manager of TAFICO as provided in the draft DCA;
-    recruitment of the four most critical technical experts to
remain as conditions of disbursemeat for the respective
parts of the project and the remaining five to be recruited
by December 31, 1976;
-    the Tanzanian delegation expressed great concern over
consultation, 'every 12 months or more often-, with IDA on
prices paid for dried dagaa by the Kigoma joint venture
company to the Ujamaa producers. After considerable
discussion the Tanzania delegation accepted the clause but
insisted and obtained agreement on consultations to take
place from time to time;-
-    retroactive financing of up to US$ 75,000 for expenditure on
technical services, housing and vehicles;
-    establishment of Project Coordinating Committee to be a
condition of effectiveness; also a detailed implementation
schedule was agreed;
-    possible combination of the two proposed coastal centres at
Pangani and Bagamoyo was mentioned by the Tanzania
delegation and the IDA delegation indicated no problem in
principle with such a proposal.
Government approval of the negotiated documents was received by IDA on
March 27, 1976.
2.09      The Executive Directors approved the Project on July 1, 1976.
The record of the Board discussions, which deal with three Tanzanian
projects presented to the Board that day, make no mention of specific
issues being raised concerning the Fisheries Development Project. The



- 8 -
legal documents were signed on July 12, 1976. The conditions of
effectiveness having been met, the project was declared effective on
October 12, 1976.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The Project included the following components:
(a)  Three Fishing Centres to be established along the coast.
The exact location was left to be determined by the local
District Development Corporations and TAFICO (the
shareholders in the joint venture). Each centre was to be
provided with ten 10 m fishing boats equipped with 45 h.p.
engines and fishing gear. The type of boat recommended was
a standard FAO V-bottom design which appeared to be well
suited for the conditions found along the coast and powerful
enough to bandle the recommended 16.8 m FAO designed
trawl 9/. Other investments included an ice store,
vehicles, equip-ment, a workshop for routine maintenance and
repairs, and several pre-fabricated buildings. Proposed
fixed investment was considered an absolute mininum
specifically designed to facilitate easy transfer of the
centres to other locations along the coast if fishing
prospects were to prove better there.
(b)  A Permanent Fishing Centre on Lake Tanganyika at Kigoma was
to be established and provided with ten commercial purse
seining 101 units, each consistirg of one 12 m
locally-built wooden boat powered by a 80 h.p. diesel
engine, five small light boats, fishing nets and other
gear. Other investments included covered drying racks, cold
storage facilities, vehicles, equipment and buildings.
(c)  A Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program was tc be first initiated
in a few villages near Kigoma and gradually expanded to
other Ujamaa villages as experience was gained.  Credit was
to be provided through TRDB to participating village
organizations for the purchase of about five standard
FAO-designed small boats powered by 10 h.p. inboard engines
and equipped with nets and other fishing gear. If lift net
fishing techniques proved successful, then TRDB credits
could also be provided for this fishing method on the basis
of satisfactory technical and financial projections. The
fish caught would be dried on shore on covered drying racks
financed under the project, and then transported either by
truck or over the lake to Kigoma. Technical assistance was
included to teach the villagers how to operate and maintain
the boats, nets and other fishing gear required.
9/  A large conical net dragged along the sea bed or at pre-determined
mid-water depths to gather fish.
10/ A fishing method using a net which, when set to surround a fish shoal,
hangs vertically in the water and is then 'pursed' by dra-wing the
footrope and bottom of the net together.



- 9 -
Cd)  Lake transport facilities to transport dagaa to Kigoma and
basic supplies to Ujamaa villages were to include two tugs
and four barges (25 a long) made of steel. Provision was
made to consider other types of lake transport if further
study indicated that they would be more suitable.
(e) A two-year Market Study would be undertaken to assess the
market prospects for increased production of both fresh and
dried fish from Lake Tanganyika and would also include a
small component to examine potential catch rates and market
prospects for haplochromis from Lake Victoria.
(f)  A study to investigate the effects of increasing levels of
chemical pollution on the life cycle of fish in Lake
Tanganyika would be undertaken.
(g) Technical Assistance to be provided within both the Ministry
of Natural Resources and TAFICO would consist of 9
internationally recruited staff, and the incremental
staffing as follows:
(1) Ministry of Natural Resources
Ci) a Manager to assist in the overall coordination
and planning of project activities, and to
oversee project monitoring and evaluation;
(ii) one Fisheries Specialist to train extension
personnel on Lake Tanganyika and to supervise
the training of Ujamaa fishermen by the
training staff. Funds were also provided for
salaries of extension staff, equipment and
supplies for three mobile fishing units to
assist in this task;
(2) TAFICO
(i) a Manager to assist in the overall planning and
execution of the development of the various
fishing centres;
(ii) one Master Fisherman and one Marine Engineer to
assist in developing plans for marine fishing
and to give technical support to the three
coastal fishing centres;
(iii) one Master Fisherman, one Marine Engineer and
one Refrigeration Engineer to provide technical
support for the fishing centre and the lake
transport facilities to be established on Lake
Tanganyika;
(iv) one Assistant to the Manager of the Kigoma joint
venture company to help with the overall
planning and coordination of the enterprise.



- 10 -
Financing
3.02      The financing of Project costs was to be as follows:
US$ million     Z
IDA                              9.0          72
Government                        2.2         18
Joint Venture and Ujamaa          1.2         10
Organization and Management
3.03      The Ministry of Natural Resources was to have overall
responsibility for all project activities; a Coordinating Committee
(comprising the Director of Fisheries in MNR, the General Manager of
TAFICO, the two specialist managers to be provided under the project to
TAFICO and the Ministry, the General Manager of TRDB, representatives from
the Prime Minister's Office and from the External Finance Division of the
Treasury and the relevant Regional Development Directors) was to be
established to provide policy guidelines.
3.04      The Director of Fisheries was to serve as Project Coordinator.
The fishing centres were each to be managed by a joint venture company
formed by TAFICO and the relevant District Development Corporation. The
Ujamaa program was to be managed by TRDB in conjunction with the regional
fishing extension service and the lake transport facilities were to be
owned and operated by the joint venture company to be established at
ICigoma. The market study was to be carried out under the direction of the
Ministry of Natural Resources. Terms of reference for the pollution study
were to be prepared by the Ministry of Natural Resources; however; the
responsibility for the actual study was not specified.
Project Benefits
3.05      The major benefit from the Project was to be increased production
of both fresh and dried fish resulting in increased fish consumption in
many rural areas where nutritional levels were low, as well as the opening
up of new urban markets for this low cost, high protein food. Another
important benefit was to be the development and demonstration of more
sophisticated fishing techniques at the village level, thus enabling
fishermen to better exploit an existing but underutilized resource. The
provision of transport facilities on Lake Tanganyika was expected to open
up more remote areas of the lake shore to trade, allow better access to
extension and other personnel and provide a convenient marketing channel
for village production.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Execution of the Project was disappointing.  The Lake Tanganyika
fishing component, after nearly 5 years of unsuccessful attempts to get it
off the ground, had to be dropped because it was concluded by IDA that the
local management without continued external assistance would not be able to
sustain it. Operations of marine fishing centres were also delayed by more



- 11 -
than five years (none of the boats started operating prior to the original
Project Closing Date); only two of the proposed three centres were allowed
to proceed as commercial ventures because there was considerable
uncertainty about fish catch rates at the third location (Mtwara) and only
10 of the 30 proposed boats were constructed. The Ujamaa village component
suffered serious snags (see paras 4.13 and 4.14) and had to be reduced to 5
villages (compared with 20 villages originally proposed). Because of the
development of alternate facilities the Lake Transport component was
dropped. The market study, which was completed after the original Project
Closing Date, did not contain any useful marketing proposals while the
pollution study did not get off the ground. Implementation of Technical
Assistance program proved to be a confusing exercise because of partly
overlapping assistance provided by various donors and because extensive
modifications were required to original proposals to fit the project needs.
4.02      Effectiveness.  There were two conditions of effectiveness, i.e.:
(a) execution of a subsidiary !can agreement between the
Government and TRDB; and
(b) establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee.
Both these conditions were met within three months of signing. A condition
of credit disbursement for each component was that the principal technical
service personnel for that component had been recruited on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. This condition was met prior to disbursement
against each respective component.
Lake Fisheries
4.03      Establishment of a fishing center at Kigoma proved extremely
difficult. Regional Authorities objected to the formation of a new joint
venture company (there is no record of whether regional authorities
agreement to the establishment of a new company was obtained at appraisal
and if so why they subsequently changed their mind). This problem was
resolved by an agreement to use Uvuvi Kigoma (an existing fishing
enterprise partially owned by the District Development Corporation) as the
commercial center under the project. Subsequently TAFICO acquired majority
shareholding as called for under the project in Uvuvi Kigoma; and some
existing shore facilities, which had been constructed by the regional
authorities were transferred to the company. Later on, at IDA's
suggestion, Uvuvi Kigoma's shareholding was restructured and TAFICO's
ownership was reduced to 12.5% (this action was taken to reduce the
perceived negative consequences of TAFICO interventions in the affairs of
the local company, see para 6.02).
4.04      A serious disagreement on the type and design of boats for lake
fisheries also arose. The Tanzanians argued that the wooden boats
recommended in the SAR would not be appropriate and instead proposed steel
boats which were considered more durable. This proposal was followed up by
submission of design for steel boats. The proposed change represented a
major departure from the Project appraisal concept. However, IDA accepted
the idea of steel boats, but expressed serious reservations on the design
proposed because it was considered too sophisticated. Subsequently, with
minor modifications, a new design prepared by the naval architect attached
to the Tanzania Railways Corporation was agreed to.



- 12 -
4.05      Switching over to steel boats meant that the boats would have to
be procured internationally as there was no steel boat building capability
within Tanzania. IDA suggested that designs, specifications and tender
documents should be prepared by a reputable firm of consultants, but TAFICO
insisted that these could be prepared locally without outside help. The
drawings and draft documents which took TAFICO several months to prepare
required major revisions. A revised version took additional three months
to prepare and three more months were required for IDA to review and
comment on the tender documents (a consultant was engaged by IDA for this
purpose). Invitation to bid was sent out in May 1979 (30 months after
effectiveness). Evaluation of bids was completed in November 1979 by
outside consultants retained for this purpose. Since all the bids were
more than three times the appraisal estimate for comparable wooden boats
originally included in the project, the coordinating committee rejected all
the bids with IDA's concurrence and decided on international shopping. !DA
approved international shopping because it was felt that reasonable (lower)
quotations could be obtained from a large number of suppliers for either
steel or fibre glass hulls of the type which were normally constructed by
the suppliers matching the general requirements of the project. The
services of consultants hired to evaluate bids were extended to assist in
international shopping. This exercise was completed in August 1980. The
lowest responsive bidder-s quotation of US$205,000 per unit was 35% higher
than the estimated cost of comparable wooden boat unit. However, it was
calculated that these units even at this price level would be financially
viable.
4.06      Before order for the construction of boats could be placed, other
problems surfaced. In late 1980, it became evident that the management of
Uvuvi Kigoma would have to be upgraded if the fishing centre were to
operate satisfactorily. At that time it was also felt that technical
assistance should be in place promptly and, therefore, IDA indicated that
unless the technical assistance agreement with the Crown Agents to provide
technical assistance personnel for Kigoma as well as coastal centres, which
had been stalled for some time because of a dispute on withholding tax was
finalised (see para 4.20), it would not agree to the procurement of steel
boats for Kigoma centre. It was also proposed by IDA that a cancellation
clause be included in the purchase agreement for boats (at a cost of 15% of
the cancelled amount to be financed by IDA) as a hedge against the new
management of Uvuvi Kigoma not proving itself competent. Under the
proposed arrangement based on the performance of the new management a firm
decision would be taken following delivery of first three boats in August
1981 (some concern was expressed within the Bank on the feasibility of IDA
financing the cancellation cost on the basis of a cancellation clause
between the Borrower and supplier). In May 1981, the supervision mission
(which also visited Kigoma) reported that the conditions imposed by IDA for
going ahead with the procurement of boats had largely been met in as much
as the technical assistance agreement with the Crown Agents had been signed
and a new General Manager of Uvuvi Kigoma was recently appointed. The
mission also stated that although an evaluation of the new General
Manager's performance at that time was not feasible because he had been in
the job only a few days; however, his qualifications and previous
management experience gave him a fair chance of doing reasonably well in
his new assignment. The mission also recommended financing under the
Project an internationally recruited Chief Accountant at Kigoma (because it



- 13 -
was considered unlikely that a suitable person for this position could be
found locally) and development of a training program for the employees of
fishing centres to be financed under the Project. Subject to these
conditions being met and injection of reasonable equity capital in Uvuvi
Kigoma, it was recommended that the Closing Date should be extended to
June 30, 1984, and the contract for purchase of boats should be finalised.
However, after considerable In-house deliberations, IDA decided not to
extend the Closing Date for this component and this was communicated to the
Borrower in September 1981. The main reasons against the extension of this
component were: (i) poor track record of the project, (ii) generally poor
parastatal performance in Tanzania, (iii) a realization that fishing
required above average entrepreneurship, which parastatals were not capable
of providing, to be commercially viable, and (iv) concern that once the
technical assistance personnel to be provided under the Project were
withdrawn the management of the fishing centre would be unable to carry on
the business satisfactorily.
4.07      In early 1978 IDA agreed to finance out of the Project funds
rehabilitation of three old purse seine boats owned by Uvuvi Kigoma to
speed up Project operations pending the acquisition of boats provided under
the project. It was expected that the relatively straightforward
rehabilitation would be carried out without much problem and delay.
However, only one boat was repaired satisfactorily and it has operated
intermittently since late 1979. The two remaining boats did not become
operational because the engines installed were of wrong size and the other
corrective work was not in line with the technical specifications.
Coastal Centers
4.08      Numerous difficulties were encountered in the establishment of
coastal centres. Site identification, legal incorporation, recruitment of
staff and finalization of investment plans took much longer than
anticipated. Three sites (Bagamoyo, Nyamisati and Mtwara) were chosen for
the coastal centres. Compared to the development of the other two
locations, establishment of a centre at Bagamoyo was relatively problem
free. Lack of interest on the part of district authorities, shortage of
water supply, absence of an all weather approach road, and difficulties in
recruitment of staff delayed the proper establishment of a centre at
Nyamisati until 1981 (at one point because of serious problems encountered
it was proposed to shift the centre to another location). Establishment of
a commercial centre at Mtwara was abandoned in 1980 because of uncertainty
about fish resources and instead a research effort to determine resource
potential. was agreed upon. This program was to be conducted under the
supervision of an ODA expert attached to Mtwara RIDEP.
4.09      Disagreements on the recommended  design for coastal boats and
TAFICO boatyard capacity to construct project boats were encountered in the
early phase of project implementation. A consultant was sent to Tanzania
in March 1978 by IDA to look Into these problems. This visit resulted in
resolution of disagreement on boat design. However, the consultant
concluded that existing TAFICO boatyards would not be capable of meeting
project needs and orders for some of the boats would have to be placed on
other boatyards. Following the approval of investment plans by TRDB for
the coastal centres orders for 6 boats were placed with Mikindani boatyard



- 14 -
(owned by TAFICO) and 4 boats were ordered from Pangani boatyard (owned by
the district authorities) in 1978 and early 1979. The remaining 20 coastal
boats to have been provided under the project were not ordered.
4.10      Periodically reported progress by the earlier supervision
missions on the construction of boats is quite confusing. In June 1978, it
was reported that & boats would be ready by early 1979. In October 1978 it
was observed that while the boat building program was proceeding in a
technically acceptable way, the completion timetable was several months
slower than expected due to delay in procurement of engines from outside
the country. In February 1979 it was anticipated t-'at all, boats would be
completed within six months. In September 1979, 8 boats were reported to
be virtually complete and expected to be fitted with engines by year end.
The engines were received in early 1980 and at that time 7 boats were
reported to be ready while the remaining three were under construction. In
March 1980, doubts were expressed regarding TAFICO's ability to install the
engines. This problem was overcome by arranging for a NORAD expert
attached to the Mbegani Fisheries Institute and a U.K. Marine Engineer
attached to the Tanzania Harbors Authority to supervise installation. In
October 1980, the position appeared to be that hulls for all the 10 boats
were nearly complete but the fittings were in various stages of
installation. At that time it was also observed that TAFICO had been very
slow in the construction of boats due to poor management and inadequate
release of funds to the boatyards to permit them to procure the necessary
materials 1I/.  In May 1981, the supervision mission was informed that
lack of materials and power outages were preventing the boatyards from
completing the construction. The Permanent Secretary of Ministry of
Natural Resources promised to take personal interest in the matter and a
delivery schedule for the boats was agreed upon. In accordance with this
schedule all the boats were to be delivered by April 1982. The mission was
also informed that since the time of ordering boats the cost of materials
had gone up substantially and it would be unrealistic to expect the
boatyards to absorb these costs. After reviewing a detailed proposal by
the Ministry, IDA agreed to an escalation of about 50X in the contract
price to be paid at the time of delivery. Two boats were delivered in
October 1981, one of which had major structural and mechanical defects.
Corrective work to make this boat seaworthy was carried out in early 1982
(the cost of repairs was paid by the Ministry). By June 1982, as minimal
progress had been made in the delivery of boats (at that time only 3 boats
had been delivered), the supervision mission informed the Ministry that
unless substantial progress in the delivery of boats was made by September
30, 1982 (at least 8 boats were to be delivered by that date) the Project
Closing Date (which IDA had informally agreed in September 1981, to extend
except for the lake fisheries component) would not be extended. As this
condition was not satisfied by the agreed date (by early October 1982, only
5 boats had been delivered), IDA informed the Government of its decision
not to extend the Project Closing Date.
4.11      At the time of last supervision (October 1982) work had been
completed at Bagauaoyo and Nyamisati on the rehabilitation of some existing
shore facilities, e.g., offices, godowns, ice plant and cold storage. Four
houses for expatriate staff and transport equipment provided under the
Project had also been procured.
11/ It is worth noting that both boatyards had been paid almost 100% of the
price in advance.



- 15-
Ujamaa Village Program
4.12      Identification of the first four villages to participate in the
Ujamaa pilot scheme was not done until 1978. The first loan under this
program was approved in late 1978.  In the meantime a master fisherman was
appointed to head the mobile fishing unit and the fishing villages to
receive craining had been selected in mid 1977. Fishing trials with
improved beach seine units 12/ were carried out in early 1978 and proved
quite successful. The expatriate Master Fisherman successfully
demonstrated the effective use of the mobile fishing units 13/ in the
villages.  In mid-1978, the outbreak of cholera led the local authorities
to close all village fishing for a few months and this caused some delay in
the implementation of this component.
4.13      In February 1978, lack of coordination between the local
authorities, the Fisheries Division and TRDB was noticed by the supervision
mission as having led to some confusion with investment plans being
prepared for certain villages by TRDB which proved to be unacceptable to
the local authorities. To safeguard against repetition of this problem a
coordinating committee was established in Kigoma (representing the regional
and district administrations and TRDB and to be chaired by the Regional
Fisheries Officer) to identify villages for participation in the program.
In August 1979, the supervision mission reported that the committee had
significant impact on speeding up the program as evidenced by TRDB's
approval of financial plans of two more villages. This optimism about the
effectiveness of the committee was, however, shortlived; in March 1980, the
supervision mission observed that despite the establishment of a project
coordinating committee in Kigoma to speed up identification, no further
villages have been identified and 5 approved villages have not started
fishing operations. The lack of progress was partly attributed to
overlapping responsibilities for procurement of materials. Action was
taken to overcome this problem, and it was agreed that henceforth the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) in consultation with the villages and TRDB
would prepare detailed lists of items to be procured and TRDB would
restrict itself to direct payment and monitoring the implementation of the
investment plans and assuring that correct procurement procedures were
being followed.
4.14      This component suffered a further setback when almost the entire
shipment of netting and a few outboard engines was stolen. Despite the
difficulties encountered the earlier supervision missions repeatedly
expressed optimism about the success of this component. In May 1981, the
supervision mission reported that disbursements in respect of 5 approved
villages were only 30% of the investment plans and the investment plans for
7 more villages were at various stages of preparation. At that time the
main problems affecting this program were identified as:
(a) lack of proper management in the villages;
(b) lack of boat building and other materials; and
(c) insufficient technical assistance to the villages by
divisional fisheries and TRDB staff.
12/ Consist of a small boat and a net and two teams of fishermen who pull
the net on to the beach.
13/ Complete fishing units which traveled from village to village for the
purpose of training local fishermen.



- 16 -
To speed up implementation it was agreed that by August 1981 TRDB would
complete a survey of the needs of participating villages. The mission,
however, was skeptical about the outcome of the survey and the prospect of
a significant improvement in the implementation of this program and
recommended that the component be reduced to 12 villages. A survey was
indeed completed by TRDB in August 1981, but no action was taken to assist
the villages in dealing with the problems identified. Because virtually no
progress had been made in the year following the survey, the supervision
mission in Hay 1982 recommended further reduction in the component to the
already five participating villages. At the time it was decided to close
the project (October 1982) none of the investment programs in respect of
the 5 villages had been completed.
Lake Transport
4.15      This component did not get off the ground.  At the time the
Project was appraised, there was virtually no suitable transport facility
in Lake Tanganyika. However, an old steamer "Laemba- was being repaired
slowly. Because of the uncertainty of this boat becoming operative and to
facilitate village fishermen to take their fish catch to the markets, a
lake transport component was included in the project. As -Laemba' started
operations before any action in introducing transport facilities could be
taken, this component was dropped.
Market Study
4.16      Difficulties were experienced in the recruitment of a suitable
person to conduct the study. A fish marketing expert who was expected to
start work on the marketing study, declined the offer in April 1978 and it
was not until early 1979 that an expatriate marketing economist was
recruited through FAD. A contract was also signed in mid 1979 with the
University of Dar-es-Salaam to conduct a household survey of fish
consump-tion in the Dar-es-Salaam area. By early 1980, the Dar-es-Salaam
household survey was completed and data processing was commenced.
Thereafter a similar exercise was undertaken for the Kigoma region. The
overall study was completed in early 1982. While it contained some useful
recent data on fish production, prices and consumption, it was considered
to be of limited value to the original project objective, because it did
not contain any useful proposal for marketing incremental fish catch under
the project. However, since the scope of the project had been so
drastically reduced, in particular the elimination of Kigoma as a major
production center which the study was intended to support, the study
shortcomings were not expected to have any serious bearing on the
scaled-down Project.
Pollution Study
4.17      In October 1978, MNR reported that a suitable person had been
located in Mwanza to carry out the study. The pollution expert was to
supervise the study while analyses were to be conducted by the Tropical
Institute in London. In August 1979, the study was reported to be
proceeding satisfactorily. Six months later, however, it was reported that
the first supply of chemicals had evaporated due to inadequate storage
facilities and another shipment had been ordered. These chemicals were
subsequently reported to have been procured but the study was not
completed.



- 17 -
Technical Assistance
4.18      During the first year of project implementation it was noted that
TAFICO's non-IDA activities placed a heavy burden on its management which
prevented the institution from managing the technical assistance component
effectively. To overcome this problem the responsibility for technical
assistance was shifted to the office of Director of Fisheries in the
Ministry of Natural Resources. Further complications and the need for
adjustments in the implementation of this component arose because of the
overlapping technical assistance provided under bilateral aid; at one time
seven of the planned nine technical assistance personnel under the project
were reported to be financed by bilateral aid. This situation largely
resulted from lack of coordination with other providers particularly at
project appraisal. DANIDA, in December 1978, decided to withdraw technical
assistance. This action was dictated by DANIDA's concern that the Kigoma
Centre was not making any progress.
4.19      Significant changes were required in the planned technical
assistance to TAFICO and the fishing centres. The position of manager at
TAFIC0 headquarters to assist in the overall planning and execution of the
development of the fishing centres was abolished to reduce TAFICO's
participation in the establishment of the fishing companies. This action
was considered necessary because of TAFICO's inability to play a
constructive role in project implementation (see para 6.02). To assist
TAFICO to improve its financial management, IDA agreed in 1978 to the
recruitment of an expatriate Financial Manager funded under the project.
The incumbent, however, proved to be ineffective and IDA in January 1980
stopped financing his salary out of the project funds. About half-way
through project implementation it was realized that the choice of sites for
coastal centres made it impractical to effectively provide centralized
(Dar-es-Salaam based) technical assistance as envisaged at appraisal. For
this reason and because the long delay in the establishment of coastal
centres was considered to warrant full-time technical assistance for each
coastal centre even under the most favourable circumstances, it was decided
to provide one Master Fisherman and a marine engineer for each of the
commercial centres. Eventually technical assistance personnel for only two
coastal centres (Bagamoyo and Nyamisati) were recruited; no technical
assistance personnel were recruited for the third centre at Mtwara because
of the decision not to proceed with the development of a commercial centre
at this location.
4.20      Finalization of technical assistance arrangements were unduly
delayed. Proposals for technical assistance were not invited until 1979.
Crown Agents (UK) were chosen in December 1979 in preference to 3 other
organizations who had responded to the Government's invitation to provide
one Master Fisherman and one marine engineer each for Kigoma, Bagamoyo and
Nyamisati; and a Management Adviser and Fish Processing Expert for the
Kigoma Centre. For Kigoma the position of Management Adviser was included
at the request of the Borrower. The Fish Processing Expert was intended to
replace the refrigeration engineer included in the project. Because of the
decision not to extend the closing date for the Kigoma component the
intended technical assistance personnel for the centre were not recruited.
The finalization of agreement with the Crown Agents was delayed by about
another year mainly due to the Government of Tanzania's insistance on



- 18 -
subjecting the payments under the agreement to withholding tax. Ihis
problem was satisfactorily resolved and the four technical assistance
personnel for Bagamoyo and Nyamisati coastal centres started arriving in
Tanzania In mid-1981.
Reporting
4.21      The Project Coordination Unit, when established, issued progress
reports, although at irregular intervals. The contents of these reports
were not always accurate.
Accounts and Audit
4.22      The accounting and auditing covenant called for audited financial
statements of TAFICO and the fishing centers to be submitted yearly.
During the course of project implementation, only TAFICO's audited accounts
for financial year 1977 were submitted.  Project accounts were not properly
maintained by PCU in respect of technical assistance.  Although TRDB
maintained separate accounts in respect of the fishing  centers and Ujamaa
villages, many discrepancies were noted therein.
Procurement
4.23      The prescribed procedures required boat engines, equipment and
vehicles to be procured through ICB with a local preference margin of 15%
or the existing rate of import duties whichever was lower. Civil works and
boats were to be procured under Government's normal competitive bidding
procedures. Because of the likely lack of competitiveness in the boat
building industry, which is largely Government controlled, it was expected
that contracts for construction of boats would be negotiated. As
anticipated, the contracts for construction of 10 wooden boats for coastal
centers were given to two public sector boatyards. Switching over to steel
boats for Kigoma centre necessitated ICB (and subsequently international
shopping) because there was no steel boat building capacity in the
country. Preparation of bid documents for steel boats was delayed by
nearly a year because TAFICO did not have the requisite expertise for
preparing detailed specifications and tender documents. Procurement of
coastal boat engines, workship tools, and vehicles was handled through ICB
without any major problem.
4.24      Technical assistance personnel (provided by the Crown Agents)
were recruited after evaluation of 4 proposals. Some minor items (mostly
household equipment for Technical Assistance personnel) which were not
available locally were procured through the Crown Agents.
Costs
4.25      The project costs were originally estimated to be US$ 12.4
million of which IDA was to contribute US$ 9 million and the balance was to
be provided by the Government, joint venture companies and Ujamaa
villages. Because of many fluctuations in the scope of the project (mainly



- 19 -
due to delay in implementation) costs were revised several times. Pending
a detailed final accounting, project costs as at end of June 1983 were
estimated at US$ 5.8 million. The IDA disbursements (planned and actual)
are as follows:
Disbursements
Planned vs. Actual
Amount of the                Amounts
Category              Credit Allocated              Disbursed
(USS)                     (USS)
(1)  Sub-loans                       5,000,000               1,115,796.20
(2) Technical Services:
Remuneration, housing
and vehicles                3,000,000                3,061,896.42
(3)  Unallocated                     1_000_000_ -
Totals                         9,000,000                4,177,692.62
Disbursement and Funding
4.26      Five entities were involved in disbursement of project funds,
i.e., IDA, Government, IAFICO, Regional Authorities and Ujamaa villages.
The Project had a very poor disbursement record. Cumulative disbursements
as of the original Closing Date (December 1981) were about a third of the
credit amount and the total amount disbursed was USS 4.2 million or about
47% of the credit amount of USS 9 million. Some delays were experienced in
the receipt of Government contributions. TAFICO and Regional Authorities
did not fully contribute their respective shares towards the equity capital
of fishing centres.
Performance of Consultants
4.27     Except for the Financial Manager, TAFIC0, and the economist
retained for the marketing study, performance of consultants was
satisfactory. Consultants employed initially to evaluate bids for steel
boats and subsequently retained to assist ir international shopping
exercise did an excellent job. Similarly, technical assistance persornel
provided under the contract with the Crown Agents performed well. The
expatriate Project Manager located within TAFICO initially and MHR later
and the master fishermen engaged to train Ujamaa villages also performed
generally well.



-20-
V. PROJECT IMPACT
5.01      Ihe project aimed at the development of commercial fisheries at 3
selected sites along the coast and one on Lake Tangayika, to improve
fishing techniques and marketing cata and provide the basis for fisheries
development in the traditional sector by supporting a pilot fisheries
program for Ujamaa villages on Lake Tanganyika.  Any meaningful comparison
of actual performance vs aims is difficult because to date the project
impact has been almost nil as the various project components are either not
operational or have only recently started operating.
5.02      Fishing Operations.  For the coastal centres only 3 out of 30
boats were delivered about two months prior to the original Credit Closing
Date and none of them was operational. At the time of last supervision
(October 1982) some commercial fishing activity had started at Bagamoyo but
the records available were too sketchy to derive any meaningful
conclusions. As of September 1981, when the decision not to extend the
Kigoma fisheries component was communicated to GOT, no project related
activities h&d coumenced and out of the three old boats which were repaired
with the use of project funds only one boat had operated intermittently.
The Ujamaa village program did not proceed beyond the five villages
approved in 1978179. As of October 1982, fishing operations had not
started in any of the villages.
5.03      Economic Rate of Return. At appraisal the overall project
economic rate of return was calculated at 27%; 22% for the coastal ceatres,
28Z for the lake fisheries including transport facili.ies and 30% for the
Ujamaa villages. As none of the components have operated on a meaningful
scale, calculation of updated rates of retura is not possible. However,
given the delays in execution, costs i.-curred to date, and lack of
demonstrated production increases, it is probably safe to assume that the
rates of return have been negative.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      The overall performance of the various agencies involved in
project implementation has been unsatisfactory. TAFICO, while not a direct
recipient of funds under the project, was intended to play a major role in
the ownership and establishment of the ccmmercial fishing centers. The
Project proposals also called for participation by the relevant District
Development Corporations in the ownership of joint venture companies and
provide necessary support and assistance in establishment of physical
infrastructure. The Ujamaa villages program was to be managed by TRDB in
conjunction with the regional fisheries extension service. The Ministry of
Natural Resources was to have the overall responsibility for zll project
activities and in this role was to be assisted by a coordinating
committee. The Ministry was also charged with the responsibility for
carrying out the marketing study.



- 21 -
6.02      TAFICO. At appraisal, TAFICO had not developed into a fully
operational parastatal. As time passed it became evident that it was a
weak organization, suffered from poor umnagement and was ill-equipped to
handle its assigned role. The other business related problems of TAFIC0
progressively overwhelmed its  nagement to the extent that it lost what-
ever ability it had to start with to play a constructive role in the
implementation of the project. However, because of TAFICO's central role
in the fisheries sector, the separation of its problems from the project
proved to be a slow process. When a new General Manager of TAFICO was
appointed in 1977 it was hoped that this change would result in improvement
in the management of the corporation. With this expectation and to support
TAFICO in improving its financial management IDA agreed to finance the
appointment of a Financial Manager out of project funds. Ihese remedies,
however, proved ineffective and eventually it was decided to restrict
TAFICO's role within the project to its participation in Joint Venture
companies and that only as a shareholder with no operational
responsibilities.
6.03      MRDB were given an important role in project implementation.
Firstly, they were designated to review and approve investment plans for
the commercial fishing centres to ensure their financial viability and
provide necessary financing for implementation of these plans. Secondly,
they were charged with the responsibility for the selection of villages to
participate in the Ujemaa villages' program. This function was to be
undertaken by TRDB in cooperation with the regional authorities in general
and Regional Fisheries Officer in particular. In evaluating the investment
proposals for the fishing centres, 7RDB's performace was reasonabaly
satisfactory; however, delays were experienced in releasing funds.  IRDB's
handling of Ujamaa village program was marred by delays in identification
of villages, lack of cooperation/coordination with the Regional Fisheries
Officer and lack of assistance to participating villages in implementation
-of investment programs. As a result, as of the original project closing
date, only five villages (compared with appraisal estimate of 20) were
participating in this program and none of the villages had actually started
fishing operations. Difficulties also arose as a result of TRDB's
involving themselves in procurement matters; this problem was resolved
during regular project supervision.. IRDB did not maintain accurate
accounting records of project funds.
6.04      The Ministry of Natural Resources was given the overall
responsibility for all project activities with the Director of Fisheries
serving as project coordinator. The Ministry was to be assisted by a
coordinating committee. It Is difficult to assess what positive impact, if
any, the committee had on project implementation. The lack of cooperation
and coordination between involved organizations and agencies persisted
throughout the project period. The Committee and the Ministry demonstrated
almost complete helplessness in influencing and expediting the construction
of boats for the coastal centres. They were also ineffective in getting
the Government to release funds on a timely basis and were unable to assure
timely funding of fishing centres by TAFICO, Regional Authorities and
TRDB. Frequent changes in the position of manager of Project Coordination
Unit created discontinuity; altogether 4 different persons (2 expatriates
and 2 locally recruited persons) filled this position.



- 22 -
VII. IDA PERFOkiAICL
Project Concapt and Design
7.01      The Project, or at least its timing, is (in retrospect) extremely
difficult to justify. At the time of appraisal there were only two
positive factors underlying the project: the availability of relatively
large unexploited fish stocks in the lakes and unsatisfied demand for both
fresh and dried fish. On the other hand there were many identified
weaknesses and unknowns which were likely to seriously inhibit project
implementation. Firstly, the two institutions (TAFICO and TRDB) which were
to play pivotal role in setting up project entities and facilities were
themselves not yet strong organizations with strong managements. Secondly,
the management of major project components was to be entrusted to either
institutions yet to be created (fishing centres) or institutions about
which there was little knowledge available (Ujamaa villages). 7hirdly, the
magnitude of resource constraints (lack of manpower, materials and
facilities) was not fully appreciated. Fourthly, the marketing study,
which should have preceded the project and its conclusions incorporated in
project design, was made a part of the project. Lastly, the Ministry
itself (as identified at appraisal) was weak and unabLe to establish a
coordinated approach with regional authorities on fishery development
plans.
7.02      It appears from the events that occurred during implemetation
that a common understanding on many basic issues was not established prior
to or during negotiations. Soon after effectiveness, the Tanzanians
objected to: (i) the use of wooden boats for Lake Tanganyika and instead
suggested steel boats which were considered better equipped to meet lake
conditions; (ii) the design of boats for lake as well as marine fisheries,
and (iii) the establishment of a new company at Lake Tanganyika.
Resolution of these problems (on the basis of proposals made by the
Tanzanians) proved in the end to be costly and time consuming.  In
retrospect, IDA should have better assured itself that these matters had
been fully and thoroughly resolved prior to project approval.
Supervision
7.03      The IDA supervision of the project appears to have been
intensive though weak. Altogether 16 missions involving 256 man days in
the field were mounted. From the earlier supervision reports the main
message appears to be that while there was some delay in project
implementation there were no basic problems which would inhibit its
success. This undue optimisim can possibly be attributed, in part, to the
inaccurate (and often contradictory) progress reports given by the
Tanzanians, but may also have reflected the need for more profound analysis
and probing by the missions and the management. The earlier supervision
missions laid great emphasis on having the marketing arrangements finalized
to handle project fish production. While finalisation of marketing
proposals was required to fill a critical gap left at project appraisal,
equal emphasis, if not more, was needed to achieve the project's basic
objective of Increased fish supplies through establishment of fish
production facilities. One effort to speed up fish production by providing



- 23 -
funds for rehabilitation of 3 existing boats at Kigoma was frustrated by
lack of technical input in the rehabilitation work.  Earlier attention to
and closer follow-up on the establishment of fishing centres and completion
of boats and infrastructure could conceivably have resulted in more success
in achieving project objectives. However, the main problems in che
completion of facilities and lack of institutional framework inhibiting
progress were not Fully appreciated until quite late.  Some of the critical
problems might have been identified earlier and, to the extent the
difficult overall economic conditions In Tanzania would have permitted, at
least partly resolved had the missions placed less reliance on the reported
status of implementation and carried out closer supervision by frequently
visiting project areas and boatyards.  The failure of missions to
adequately flag serious and persistent delays in project implementation
earlier and the management's omission to read between the lines were
partially responsible for the project's disappointing performance
(it was not until May 1981 or one month before the scheduled completion
date that the project performance rating was changed to 3 and the project
was identified as a 'problem project').
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      Main lessons to be learned from the Project are that:
vi) Greater attention needs to be given to the country's
implementing capability (1nstitutional, manpower, financial
and physical resources);
(ii) Project scope and design should be consistent with available
resources and existing institutional framework;
(iii) Agreement on major issues (e.g., type and design of boats,
project implementation arrangements) should have been
been reached prior to project approval and appropriately
reflected to avoid misundertanding subsequently; and
(iv) Studies and collection of data significantly affecting
project scope and design should be developed prior to
project implementation and the pertinent results reflected
in the design of the project.



[IRD 11795
Vic  rio ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I di
-K- E\ 'Y''A                   \L_AAc-- A.Or
+                     \ MALAWI ~~~~~~L
oABI                >as                                                              MOZABIQU
0ROJECT    - _      '      ' - -                                                                      A
*                 U                _-ik Tf  
RE OTE fETR5                        - :'       -:     \J\                           _J                             N,O  
=R            h         *_- CIV\ l~<_
PRJET                               AW-         .n              
_/-              al~~~.g . 7                                                                             +  -ou .
--      Tk-*     w  ._    .   .                                           -
-  s    -"--~~~mo". ':   -H=- !                       - - -   






