Report No. 963a-TA
Tanzania                                              FILE COpy
Appraisal of the
Fisheries Development Project
March 8, 1976
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS -/
SDR 1.00                             -         Tanzania Shilling (Tsh) 9.66
SDR 1.00                             -         US$1.20
US$ 1.00                             -         Tanzania Shilling (Tsh) 8.05
Tsh 1.00                             -         US$0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
2
1 hectare (ha)                 -          10,000 m   -  2.46 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kn ) m                0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 -         2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton                   0.98 long ton
ABBRE_VIATIONS
TAFICO         -          Tanzania Fisheries Corporation
TRDB            -         Tanzania Rural Development Bank
DDC             -         DistriLct Development Corporation
NCCO            -         National Cold Chain Organization
TAC             -         Tanzania Audit Corporation
MNR             -         Ministry of Natural Resources
GOVERNMENT AND PARASTATALS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   In October 1975, the three East African Community currencies were pegged
to the value of tne Special urawing Rights (SDR) of the Interuational
Monetary Fund. An SDR/US dollar conversion rate of 1.2 has been assumed
for purposes of this appraisal, although the actual rate is floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................                  i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...................................                  1
II.    BACKGROUND  .         .....................................        2
A.   General    .................................. .               2
B.    The Agricultural Sector  .           ..................      2
C.   The Fisheries Sub-Sector ..................                   4
D.   Agricultural Credit ..            .....................       9
III.    THE PROJECT             ....................................       10
A.    General Description  ....................         ...       10
B.    Detailed Features .....          ....................       11
C.    Project Costs .....           ........................      16
D.    Financing .......         ..........................        18
E.    Procurement  ......         .........................       18
F.    Disbursements  ......       .................. .            19
G.    Accounts and Audit  .....         ...................       19
H.    Project Implementation  .................         ...       20
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .....             ...............    20
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS   ....                23
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....               ........     25
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ................................                  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Fisheries Resources
Table 1  1972 Catch
2.   Fishing Technology, Equipment and Mode of Operation
Appendix 1 - V-Bottom Boats
3.   Tanzania Fisheries Corporation
Table 1 Profit and Loss Statement - 11 months ended Miay 31, 1975
Table 2 Balance Sheet - May 31, 1975
Table 3 Project related Cash Flow
4.   Training
5.   Tanzania Rural Development Bacnk
Table 1 Balance Sheets 1972 thru 1975
Table 2  Profit and Loss Statements 1972 thru 1975
Table 3  Project related Cash Flow
6.   Project Costs
Table 1 Project Cost Phasing
Table 2  Project Cost by Category
Table 3  Coastal Fishing Center - Investment Model
Table 4      "       "        "   - Profit and Loss Statement Model
Table 5      "       "        "   - Cash Flow Model
Table 6  Kigoma Fishing Center  - Investment Cost
Table 7                           - Profit and Loss Statement
Table 8                           - Cash Flow
Table 9  Lake Transport Facilities - Investment Cost
Table 10    "                 U       - Profit and Loss Statement
Tab le 11                             - Cash Flow
Table 12 Ujamaa Program               - Investment Cost
Table 13    i                         - Profit and Loss Statement
Model
Table 14    "                         - Cash Flow Model
Table 15 Technical Assistance
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.   Project Implementation
Table 1  Implementation Timing
9.   Project related Government Cash Flow



- 3 -
10. Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 Economic Rate of Return - Project
Table 2      "      "         "    - Coastal Center
Table 3      "      "         "    - Kigoma Center
Table 4     "       "         "    - Ujamaa Village Program
Table 5  Sensitivity Analysis
Chart - Project Organization
Map   - Fisheries Development Project






TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        Tanzania's development strategy has given a high priority to
agricultural and rural development, as over 90% of its population lives in
rural areas and is mainly engaged in traditional agriculture. To facilitate
rural development, and to promote a balanced regional development effort,
Government in 1972 undertook a major decentralization of its administrative
functions to 20 regional administrations. Within this context greater atten-
tion has been given to the construction of agricultural feeder roads, rural
water supplies, health facilities and the development of village centers with
basic infrastructure and services. The Government has also emphasized directly
productive investment, particularly in the agricultural sector. Attention
has been given to increased support of the fisheries sub-sector as a means
of supplying badly needed protein in the diets of those living in rural
areas. In addition to raising nutritional levels, the expansion of fish
production also has significant economic, social and employment benefits.
The proposed Project would support this strategy by expanding the capacity
of the commercial sector and by helping to develop traditional fishing at
the Ujamaa level, thus helping not only to increase present levels of fish
consumption but also providing the basis for the future expansion of the
fisheries sub-sector.
ii.       The Project would represent the first stage of a long term program
to develop fisheries production in Tanzania. It would over five years support
the establishment and development of commercial fisheries at selected centers,
assist in the adoption of improved fishing techniques, improve marketing and
provide the basis for fisheries development in the traditional sector by
supporting a pilot village fisheries program. This Project is designed to
strengthen extension services, increase fish production in both the commercial
and the traditional sector, and provide essential inputs such as credit and
other services to these fishermen. The Project would specifically provide
for the establishment of three commercial fishing centers along the coast.
Each of the centers would be provided with ten 10 meter boats equipped with
a 45 h.p. engine and trawlgear. Crews for these boats would be recruited
from the local communities and would include a skipper, an engine operator
fisherman and 4 other crew. Other center investments would include a workshop,
a cold store, vehicles and equipment. One fishing center would also be
established on Lake Tanganyika at Kigoma. Ten commercial purse seining units
would be provided at the center; each unit would include a 12-meter locally
built wooden boat powered by an 80 h.p. diesel engine and fitted with nets,



- ii -
kerosene lamps nets and other fishing gear for fishing by light attraction.
Other investments would include covered drying racks, cold storage facilities,
vehicles, equipment and buildings. The Project would also develop a pilot
program aimed at expanding current fish production in about 20 Ujamaa villages
located on the shore of Lake Tanganyika. Credit would be provided to these
villages through TRDB to purchase about one hundred small (7.9 meter) boats
powered by a 10 h.p. inboard diesel engine and equipped with the necessary
nets and other fishing gear. Technical assistance would be provided to train
the villagers in fishing techniques as well as in the operation and maintenance
of the boats. If it proves feasible and necessary, transport facilities in
the form of two tugs and four barges would be provided to transport the village
production to Kigoma and then inland by rail or truck; the barges would also
strengthen the presently inadequate transport of basic supplies to the remote
lake shore villages. Finally the Project would provide technical assistance
in the form of 9 internationally recruited staff to assist with Project imple-
mentation and development, a study to evaluate market prospects for increased
production of both fresh and dried fish, and a study of the effects of chemical
pollution on the life cycle of fish in Lake Tanganyika.
iii.      The Ministry of Natural Resources would have overall responsibility
for all Project activities and in order to assist the Ministry in this task,
a Coordinating Committee would be established to provide policy guidelines
and planning assistance. The Director of Fisheries would serve as Project
coordinator. Each of the proposed fishing centers would be operated by a
joint venture company formed by the Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO)
and the local District Development Corporation. TAFICO would be the majority
shareholder with a 60% equity holding. Credit to these centers would be
provided through the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). The lake
transport facilities would be owned and operated by the fishing center
at Kigoma. The Ujamaa village 1/ program would be administered by the Fisheries
Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources with assistance from TRDB.
The Ministry would also have direct responsibility for the market study and
the pollution study.
iv.       An IDA credit of US$9.0 naillion is proposed which would cover the
foreign exchange component of the Project and 36% of local costs. This
would represent 72% of total Project costs of Tsh 99.6 million (US$12.4 mil-
lion). The Government's contribution would total Tsh 17.7 million (US$2.2
million), or about 18% of total Project costs including import taxes and
duties which are negligible.  The joint venture companies and the Ujamaa
villages would together contribute Tsh 9.5 million (US$1.2 million) or 10% of
total Project costs. The funds for the fishing centers, the Ujamaa village
program and the lake transport facilities would be channelled by Government
to TRDB at 4% interest per annum for 20 years with 4-year grace period on
interest and capital repayments, loans from TRDB to the joint venture companies
and Ujamaa villages would represent 85% of the capital cost of the respective
investments. Funds for technical services would be channelled by Government
through the Ministry of Natural Resources to TAFICO in the form of a direct
1/   Ujamaa is Swahili literally means "familyhood".



- iii -
grant, with the exception of funds for the market study, equipment and
technical staff for the Ujamaa village development program which would remain
in the Ministry. Machinery, engines, equipment and vehicles (US$1.7 million)
would be procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. Civil works contracts (US$0.5 million) and contracts
for boat building (US$4.8 million) would be tendered locally and government
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, would apply.
v.        At full development (year 6) the Project would result in about
21,000 tons of incremental marketed production of fish; this would include
about 400 tons of shrimp 1,800 tons of table fish 15,800 tons of dagaa and
various quantities of other fish. The total annual value of this production
is estimated at Tsh 40 million (US$5.0 million). This expanded production
would result in increased fish consumption in many rural areas where nutri-
tional values are low; this would be especially important in the case of the
dried dagaa, as this represents the lowest cost per unit of protein of all
food consumed in Tanzania. An important benefit of the Project would be the
development and demonstration of more sophisticated although simple fishing
techniques at the village level enabling local fishermen to better exploit
an existing but greatly under-utilized resource. The provision of the lake
transport facilities would also open up more remote areas of the lake shore
to trade. It is expected that these developments would help to substantially
raise the incomes of those living in the affected fishing communities.
vi.       The economic rate of return for the Project is estimated at 27%
over twenty years. Individual rates of return were calculated for specific
Project components; these are estimated at 22% for the coastal fishing
centers, 28% for the Kigoma fishing center including lake transport facilities
and 30% for the Ujamaa program. In the latter analysis the costs of technical
service staff were included in the relevant components, except for that element
which is attributable to future project preparation.
vii.      Ten IDA credits (USS119.1 million) and two IBRD loans (US$30 million)
have been approved thus far for agricultural and rural development within
Tanzania. These projects include one for agricultural credit; three for
livestock-including one dairy project; one each for tobacco, tea, cotton
sugar, cashewnuts and maize; and a rural development project for the Kigoma
region. Other credits have been extended for agricultural training and feeder
road development. There have been substantial delays in the implementation
of several of these projects, although there has been some recent improvement
in this area; management and staffing arrangements have generally been a conti-
nuing problem. The cotton, tobacco, sugar and rural development projects
have been affected by the sudden acceleration of the villagization program;
this has required some reorientation of the projects and has caused signifi-
cant delays.
viii.     Subject to the required assurances and conditions, the proposed
Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9.0 million to the Government of
Tanzania.






TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania's development strategy has given a high priority to agri-
cultural and rural development, as over 90% of its population lives in rural
areas and is mainly engaged in traditional agriculture. To facilitate rural
development, and to promote a balanced regional development effort, Government
in 1972 undertook a major decentralization of its administrative functions to
20 regional administrations. This was designed both to make maximum use of
the growth potential in each region and to narrow the gap between regions in
terms of the supply of essential services. Within this context greater
attention has been given to the construction of agricultural feeder roads,
rural water supplies, health facilities and the development of village centers
with basic infrastructure and services. The Government has also emphasized
directly productive investment, particularly in the agricultural sector.
Attention has recently been given to increased support of the fisheries
sub-sector as a means of supplying badly needed protein in the diets of those
living in rural areas. In addition to raising nutritional levels, the
expansion of fish production also has significant economic, social and
employment benefits. The proposed Project would support this strategy by
expanding the capacity of the commercial sector and by helping to develop
traditional fishing at the village level, thus helping not only to increase
present levels of fish consumption but also providing the basis for the
future expansion of the fisheries sub-sector.
1.02      Ten IDA credits (US$119.1 million) and two IBRD loans (US$30
million) have been approved thus far for agricultural and rural development.
These projects include one for agricultural credit; three for livestock
(including a recently approved dairy project); one each for the development
of tobacco, tea, cotton, sugar, cashewnuts and maize; and a rural development
project for the Kigoma region. A credit in 1971 provided USS3.3 million for
agricultural training, and a 1972 credit provided USA6.5 million for feeder
road development. Progress under these projects has been slow, although there
has been some recent improvement; management and staffing have been a continuing
problem. Under the completed credit project a need was found for improved
supervision of loan records and input distribution. The first livestock
(beef) project was reasonably successful, but the second project has pro-
gressed more slowly than anticipated due to delays in preparation and appro-
val of ranch plans, serious cost overruns in plant construction costs, and
frequent changes in project management. Development of the tea project has
been disappointing and slower than expected and encountered difficulties
due to inadequate services and lack of effective management control. Although
recruitment of growers for both tea and tobacco has been slow in the past,
this has recently shown substantial improvement. The cotton, tobacco and
rural development projects have been affected by the sudden acceleration
of the villagization program in 1973 and 1974; this required reorientation
of the projects and caused significant delays. The cashew, sugar and live-
stock (dairy) projects are progressing well.



1.03      The proposed fisheries Project was prepared by the Tanzania Fishing
Corporation (TAFICO), and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) with the
assistance of UNDP/FAO resident: field staff. The original Project proposal
included a component for commercial fisheries on lake Victoria. During
appraisal it was agreed that insufficient catch and marketing data existed
to enable a realistic analysis to be done and that as an alternative a market
study should be included to get the data necessary for future development in
this area. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Tanzania in June/July 1975, composed of D. Lomax, T. Baddar, L.
Sprague (IDA), and H. Kristjonsson (FAO).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Tanzania has a total area of about 800,000 km . The population
of 14.5 million (which is increasing at about 3% a year) is concentrated in
a few regions, with about two-thirds of the people occupying only 10% of the
land. Tanzania is one of the 25 "least developed" countries in the world.
Per capita GNP for 1974 was estimated at US$115. The growth rate of the
economy has been about 5% per annum from 1964 to 1973; actual growth has
lagged behind the second Five-Year Plan (1966-1974) targets, mainly due to
the failure of the main agricultural crops to reach plan projections. The
1973 drought and the accelerated villagization program resulted in a serious
reduction in agricultural production in 1974, necessitating major imports of
food grains and causing severe balance of payments problems. The recent
increases in petroleum prices and world-wide inflation have also had a
severe adverse impact on the Tanzanian economy.
2.02      Tanzania aims at reducing inequalities in income distribution
through emphasis on smallholder agriculture and rural development, as well as
state control of important industries, services and large-scale agricultural
enterprises. Initiative for planning and implementing many development proj-
ects has devolved to the regional and district administrations, with an
emphasis on the development of productive activity, particularly in the rural
sector, in conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and
a more equitable income distribution.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Agriculture accounts for roughly 40% of Tanzania's GDP  and approxi-
mately half of this output represents subsistence production. About 80% of
the country's total exports are derived from the agricultural sector. Agri-
cultural exports in 1974 were valued at Tsh 1,900 million (US$236 million),



- 3 -
of which coffee accounted for 20%, cotton 25%, sisal 25%, and cashew 13%.
Other exports included tea, meat, and tobacco. Exports of fish in the same
year amounted to Tsh 2.5 million (US$0.3 million). Total agricultural
imports in 1974 were about Tsh 1,050 million (US$130 million), of which about
Tsh 790 million (US$98 million) represented import of food grains.
2.04      About 90% of the population lives in rural areas, traditionally
in small isolated communities. Most agricultural production is concentrated
on smallholdings which are cultivated by hand and produce family subsistence
as well as cash crops. The area cultivated by a family averages about 5-6 ha
varying from under 2 ha in the more favored agricultural areas to 50 ha in
less favored areas. Shifting cultivation is practiced in many areas of the
country. Important smallholder cash crops are cotton, cashewnuts, tea,
tobacco, coffee, maize and rice. Large estates produce, sisal, coffee, tea
and coconuts, while state farms produce mainly wheat, rice and livestock.
Estate production has diminished in importance and the state farm program
remains small.
Villagization
2.05      The Arusha Declaration of 1967 reaffirmed Tanzania's commitment
to a socialist society and identified the Ujamaa village as a means of effect-
ing self-reliance and a community approach to development. The Ujamaa village
was seen as a vehicle for providing economies of scale in delivering inputs
and social services, which could improve the lives of rural people. The
ultimate objective is that Ujamaa villages become multi-purpose cooperative
societies with powers to own land and to borrow. Most villages have been
formed by physical resettlement. The precise pattern of development within
each Ujamaa village has been left to the villagers themselves to decide, and
Ujamaa development has varied considerably among regions. The extent of
collective activity varies among villages, ranging from a predominantly
communal or block farm approach to one which continues traditional individual
family farms with a small communal venture for cash. The Government has
provided considerable assistance to newly developed Ujamaa villages, chiefly
by way of transporting villagers' effects, providing building materials for
houses, and provision of water supplies and other social services, and it has
also encouraged them to develop productive activities. Within the past two
years, the emphasis has shifted from development of Ujamaa cooperatives to
formation of "planned" or "development" villages of between 1,000 and 2,000
families each. Under this villagization program, a substantial proportion of
the rural population has been moved to new locations where the Government hopes
to provide basic services and infrastructure. The program has caused some
disruption in agricultural production (para. 2.01), in part because of inade-
quate planning and preparation, but also because the vast scope of the program
necessitates a major reorientation of traditional agriculture which is likely
to take many years.



- 4 -
C. The Fisheries Sub-Sector
Fish Resources and Production (Annex 1)
2.06      Tanzania has substant:ial fish resources in the territorial waters
of Lakes Tanganyika and Victoria, as well as limited resources available
from the coastal inshore waters of the Indian Ocean. Smaller quantities
of fish are also available in various other lakes and inland swamps. These
resources are only now being seriously investigated, but it is evident that
inland resources and to a lesser degree marine resources are capable of
considerably greater rational exploitation 1/ than is presently being under-
taken. Government has supported a long term fisheries development plan under
the auspices of the Fisheries Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources.
As part of this effort studies are now being carried out under a UNDP/FAO
project in the Kigoma region to assess the standing stocks and potential
sustained annual yield from the Tanzanian part of Lake Tanganyika; other
areas of investigation include fish biology, limnology, and the processing,
marketing and distribution of fish and fish products. It is expected that
similar efforts will be made in other areas of the country with support from
UNDP, FAO and bilateral development assistance.
2.07      Indian Ocean.  The 550 mile coastline of mainland Tanzania is
characterized by a narrow continental shelf which drops off iharply after a
depth of about 60 meters. The total area of about 12,000 km of continental
shelf is reduced by coral formal'ions to an effective trawlable area of about
1,500 km2 at a depth of 29 meters where most of the trawling has been done
to date; another 2,000 km  is thought to be available for trawling in depths
of 20 to 60 meters. Two main groups of commercial fish occur in these
coastal waters: pelagic (surface associated) and demersal (bottom associated).
The most important group is the demersal which includes shrimp, table grade
fish and industrial grade fish. Shrimp are found mainly in shallow waters
of less than 20 meters depth, arnd it is estimated that the present total sus-
tainable yield should be between 1,300 and 1,700 tons per annum. The most
important table grade fish caught by trawling are red snapper and flat fish.
There is very little information available on the sustainable yields of these
and other table fish, but an FAO study concluded that the present marine catch
of 25,000 tons per annum could be doubled by 1980 with no serious adverse
effect on the fish population. At the present time much research remains
to be done on the potential for marine fishing off the coast of Tanzania;
indications are that the industry is a highly seasonal one and any future
development should proceed cautiously.
2.08     ,Lake Tanganyika.  Tanzania territorial waters include approximately
13,500 km or about 41% of the lake's total area. The lake itself has large
relatively unutilized stocks of fish, and offers excellent prospects for the
future development of these resources. Due to seasonal upswelling brought
on by the monsoon winds, the high level of organic material accumulated and
1/ That is, harvest up to abouit the limit of maximum sustainable yield.



- 5 -
the extreme depth and volume of the lake, biological productivity is high.
Because of the very steep slope and the virtual absence of shelf most of the
fish found in the lake are pelagic or surface associated. These fish include
2 species of sardines (dagaa and lumbo), three species of nile perch and
various predators. Dagaa makes up more than 75% of the catch in both the
traditional and commercial sectors (para 2.11). Preliminary surveys carried
out under the UNDP/FAO project (para 2.06) indicate a standing stock of about
2.5 million tons of all species of fish, and it is estimated that up to one-
third of this stock could be harvested each year. Present total harvest from
the lake amounts to about 2% to 3% of the standing stock. Although the overall
stock of fish is quite large, the acoustic surveys made thus far illustrate
that the distribution of fish varies greatly from one survey to the next, and
no generalizations about the geographic distribution of fish can be made at
this time. Consequently, care must be taken in the development of fisheries
on the lake. About 13,400 mainly subsistence fishermen/farmers now work at
least part time on the Tanzanian part of the lake and the total catch in 1974
was estimated at about 50,000 tons.
2.09      Lake Victoria.  Lake Victoria, the world's second largest lake, is
generally thought to have fairly large fish resources, although the data
on which this assumption is based is tentative. The most numerous fish are
of the cichlid family, which includes over 150 species of haplochromis and
a few species of tilapia. The waters of the lake can generally be divided
into three zones: a shallow water zone from shore to about 10 meters, a
second from 10 to 20 meters, and a third deep zone from 20 to 65 meters;
little if any fishing is done beyond 65 meters. As many as 20 species of
fish are caught in the shallow waters, and this area is heavily fished
throughout most of the lake. Little is known about the relative abundance
of fish in the 10-20 meter zone, although it is believed that the composition
of the fish population is similar to that found in more shallow waters with a
somewhat higher percentage of haplochromis. It has been well established for
over two decades that fish resources in the deeper waters of the lake are very
great. In recent years the East Africa Freshwater Fisheries Research Organiza-
tion assisted by FAO/UNDP has carried out an experimental trawling program on
the lake, and has established that there are fairly sizeable quantities of
haplochromis in these waters. Preliminary data indicates that an annual
sustainable yield of about 200,000 tons may be possible. Statistics indicate
that the total catch of fish from the lake averages about 41,000 tons per
annum, and haplochromis represents a substantial part of this catch.
Estimates as to the actual size of the haplochromis catch are very doubtful
and may have been systematically overestimated in the official statistics.
Any further increase in the catch would have to be restricted to waters
outside those now being fished, and before undertaking this effort a better
data base should be developed to determine whether such operations would be
economically attractive.
2.10      Other Fish Resources.  Lakes Nyasa, Rukiva, Kitangiri, the area
around the Nyuma ya mungu dam and various swamps all produce some quantities



-6-
of fish. However, indications are that these sources are heavily fished or
over-fished and the scope for incremental development does not appear to be
favorable. The National Cold Chain Organization (NCCO) has already helped
develop receiving stations, loaned money for nets and other equipment, and
improved transport facilities at the more important lakes.
The Fishing Industry (Annex 2)
2.11      Fishing in Tanzania is carried out by two distinct groups:  commer-
cial operators using motorized vessels and traditional fishermen. Total fish
production over the last five years has ranged between 150,000 m tons and
185,000 m tons per annum; abouit 90% of this is produced by approximately
40,000 traditional fishermen, and the remainder by less than 3,000 commercial
producers. True commercial operations in fact represent only a very small
segment of the fishing industry. These operators are generally organized
in small companies, most of which are owned by the regional and district
development corporations 1/.  There are now only a few medium size commercial
vessels carrying out trawling operations along the Tanzanian coast; most of
these vessels trawl for both fish and shrimp, spending on average about 2 or
3 days per trip away from their home port. On Lake Tanganyika there are
about 3 commercial purse seining units operating; these boats are patterned
after those employed along the Adriatic coast, and feature an outdated and
complex two-boat method of fisating. This old fashioned system has been re-
placed by one boat purse seining almost everywhere in the world. On Lake
Victoria there are about 5 modern commercial vessels trawling for table fish.
Traditional fishermen living along the coast and near the various inland lakes
produce by far the greater part of the landed catch. These fishermen, who
also cultivate small subsistence farm plots in their villages, generally
operate at night using dug-out canoes, although day beach seining, set nets
and line fishing are also commonly found. Most of these fishermen paddle
canoes out a short distance from shore to catch fish attracted by lamps or
to fish by other methods. Although fishing throughout the country continues
all year, the catch varies seasonally.
Fish Marketing and Consumption
2.12      About 25% of total fish production comes from marine fishing, and
75% from the inland lakes and oither fresh water sources. The marine fish are
generally sold fresh, while inland production is sold both fresh and sun-
dried. Although fresh fish is generally preferred, dried dagaa in particular
is consumed widely in most parts of Tanzania and is in some places a basic
1/   The District Development Corporation (DDC) concept was launched in the
mid-1960's as the local counterpart of the centrally organized para-
statals. A DDC is a limited company and is, in effect, the commercial
wing of the District Development and Planning Committee. Its objectives
are to stimulate commercial activity in the District by participation
in viable enterprises.



- 7 -
staple of the diet. Per capita fish consumption is about 12 kg fresh fish
equivalent a year, ranging from 46 kg a year in lakeshore regions to less
than 1 kg in inland regions. Fish consumption could be increased and fish
could be provided to a greater part of the population if the marketing system
and processing methods were both improved. Market expansion is limited by
the distances from the landing points to the major consumer centers; access
to certain lake areas by road is almost totally lacking, and rail facilities
are likewise inadequate. Traditional method of preserving fish by sun drying
on the beaches presents certain problems; significant quantities of fish are
lost through spoilage caused by rains and through the accumulation of sand
on the fish. Fish dried in this way can only be preserved for about one
month, although this period can be extended to at least 3 months through the
provision of covered drying racks at landing beaches and lowering the level
of insect infestation. Improvement of marketing facilities should be given
a high priority, as dried dagaa represents the lowest cost per unit of protein
of all food consumed in Tanzania.
2.13      Both the wholesale and retail trade are almost entirely in the
hands of private traders, although some wholesaling of fresh fish from
marine and lake sources is carried out by the National Cold Chain Organization.
This corporation collects fresh fish from the landing beaches and delivers
it to the principal markets and hotels. Between 5% and 10% of total fish
production is commercially marketed, and about 80% of fish production is
consumed in regions contiguous to fishing grounds. The price of fish is not
controlled, and varies considerably due to seasonal variations in the catch.
Retail prices of dried dagaa at markets range from Tsh 8.00/kg to Tsh 20/kg,
and the average boat side price is Tsh 1.50/kg or about Tsh 4.50/kg for dried
dagaa.
Fisheries Services
2.14      Government services to the fisheries sub-sector are the responsibi-
lity of the Fisheries Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources. This
division administers an extension service organized on a regional and district
level, with policy direction and technical support provided by the Ministry
of Natural Resources; although there are nominally about 600 extension staff
engaged in fisheries extension and development work, many of them lack ade-
quate training and equipment to be effective. The regional fisheries staff
are headed by a Regional Fisheries Development Officer; he supervises District
Fisheries Offices who have under them Field Officers, Assistant Field Officers,
and Field Assistants. Field Officers and Assistant Field Officers are formed
into project units, and Field Assistants are generally posted at landing
beaches. Despite limitations of staff, funds and logistic support, some of
the extension staff are highly motivated. The extension service now operates
a small number of mobile fishing units 1/ on the major lakes; these units are
1/   Each unit consists of a net and gear specialist, an engine operator
mechanic, two fishermen and a team leader.



used to demonstrate improved fishing techniques and to train local fishermen
in their use. The Fisheries Division also provides technical and planning
services aimed at the promotion of traditional fishing within Tanzania.
2.15      Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO).  TAFICO was established
in 1974 as a parastatal with responsibility for the support and development
of commercial fishing within Tanzania (Annex 3). It was given authority to
formulate and examine development programs, to sponsor joint ventures for the
expansion of the commercial fishing fleet, to promote the use of modern fishing
techniques and to support and encourage the establishment of allied or ancil-
liary fishing industries. The corporation has limited staff and resources
and will require considerable technical assistance to enable it to carry out
its responsibilities. In particular it was expected that the Corporation
would assume responsibility for Government 1/ boat building and net making
programs, this was done to ensure that as far as possible the production
of fishing vessels and fishing gear would be coordinated by a single
authority. TAFICO now operates four large and several smaller boat-building
yards.  The larger yards are capable of constructing boats of from 10-15
meters, and plans are underway to expand these facilities. Lack of wood-
working machinery and workshop equipment and the small number of skilled
craftsmen and mechanics available are the main factors limiting expansion of
this capacity. These boatyardes were transferred to TAFICO from the Ministry
of Natural Resources, and some of them have been in operation for several
years. The boat-building program is intended to produce appropriate sizes
and types of seaworthy fishing boats and is linked with the GOT policies to
increase fishing production by reducing the shortage of acceptable fishing
boats. The program covers the establishment of new boatyards at Dar es
Salaam and Kigoma, and the modernization and expansion of existing yards at
Itungi, Mikindani, and Pangani. In addition to TAFICO's activities, all the
major villages on Lake Tanganyika have one or more persons engaged in the
building and repair of wooden canoes. The yards near Bagamoyo on the coast
and the yard at Mwanza on lake Victoria are well equipped and staffed with
well qualified workmen. It is expected that TAFICO will not undertake large
scale fishing operations on its own 2/, but would participate jointly with
District Development Corporatio;ns or other interested parties. At the present
time, TAFICO is studying the possibilities of its becoming involved in the
handling, processing, distributLon and marketing of fish, but the extent to
which it will participate in these activities in the future depends in part
on the outcome of the marketing study provided for under the project (para.
3.09) and on the role assigned t:o NCCO by the Government.
1/   There are no significant privately owned boat yards.
2/   Because of responsibilitieE; for the development of shrimp fishing on the
coast, TAFICO may operate some bilaterally provided shrimp vessels from
Dar es Salaam.



-9-
Research and Training
2.16      A number of research and training efforts under the auspices of
the Fisheries Division are now underway (Annex 4), and some of these programs
have received considerable assistance from bilateral donors. A fisheries
training program for Field Officers is carried out at Kunduchi. A vocational
training institute supported by NORAD will soon be operational at Mbegani
which will provide, among others, courses in marine diesel mechanics, fishing
techniques, (wooden) boat building, general mechanics, refrigeration engineer-
ing, and marine engineering. Some on the job training is also provided at all
TAFICO boat yards. On average 3 or 4 fisheries officers are being trained
overseas each year under various bilateral assistance programs. The Fisheries
Division has also initiated a number of research programs and pilot studies.
Research stations have been established at Lake Victoria (The East African
Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization, and Nyegezi Fisheries Research
Station 1/) and at Lake Tanganyika (Lake Tanganyika Fisheries Research and
Development Project, UNDP/FAO).
D. Agricultural Credit
2.17      Tanzania credit institutions, the National Bank of Commerce, the
Tanzania Investment Bank and the Tanzanian Rural Development Bank (TRDB) are
wholly Government-owned. TRDB, (Annex 5) which has responsibility for
agricultural credit, was created in 1971 as the fourth of a succession of
rural credit institutions. It took over the operations of the former National
Development Credit Agency, together with agreed assets and liabilities.
The Government's intention when forming TRDB was that it would become a sound
institution, competently staffed and, although Government-owned, possessing
a reasonable degree of autonomy. IBRD/IDA concurred with these objectives
and in support of them agreed that TRDB should be the credit channel for a
number of IDA credits in the past few years, (first and second livestock
projects, and the tea, tobacco, cotton and Kigoma projects). However, it
would not have been prudent for TRDB to function without substantial technical
support, and consequently it has played a somewhat secondary role under these
projects in that the major technical decisions have been taken by the specialist
authority (e.g. tea, cotton and tobacco), while TRDB has acted as the disburse-
ment, accounting and collection agency. It has thus been building up its
portfolio at the same time as it has been strengthening its staff and pro-
cedures. This procedure has been satisfactory and if it continues TRDB should
be capable in the future of taking on an increasingly large share of project
responsibilities. As with the Dairy Development Project, under the proposed
fisheries project TRDB would have an important role to play in the choice of
villages under the Ujamaa village fisheries program in addition to its role
1/   Assisted by Netherlands development aid.



- 10 -
as a credit vehicle for all project components. This gives TRDB an increasing
share of responsibility which in view of its progress to date appears appropriate.
2.18      TRDB provides long, medium and short-term credit to farmers through
cooperative societies and Government guaranteed soft-term loans (3% p.a.)
for particular Ujamaa developmetnt projects. TRDB is funded by a Government
equity investment of Tsh 150 million and loans of Tsh 50 million. Other
authorized resources of over Tsh 300 million have come from IDA and other
international aid funds onlent by Government, with IDA accounting for about
80% of these other resources. TRDB's loan portfolio over the last four years
has increased from Tsh 79 million to Tsh 271 million and annual net profits
over the same period have increased from Tsh 152,000 to Tsh 1.7 million.
Credit control is weak due to lack of staff at all levels and arrears of
loan repayments as of June 30, 1975 accumulated to Tsh 53 million, an increase
of Tsh 17 million in 1975 while provision for bad and doubtful debts was
increased by Tsh 3 million during that year. Funds were provided under the
Dairy Development Project for the appointment of a consultant to help TRDB
determine its arrears position and develop effective recording systems for
outstanding debts. Technical assistance is given to borrowers by regional
representatives trained in agriculture and economics. Regional representatives
and head office staff are also becoming more involved with project identifica-
tion and preparation activities, but this work is hampered by shortage of
staff. In order to strengthen both its credit control and identification
and preparation work, TRDB has recently engaged 18 new credit supervisors
and a further 30 are presently Lnvolved in training programs prior to being
appointed. It is anticipated that with this increase in staff and maintenance
of good management, TRDB will, in the near future, have the capacity to
prepare large-scale credit projects suitable for external financing. The
standard rates of interest set by Government and charged by TRDB are 8-1/2%
on short-term loans and 7-1/2% on medium and long-term loans, and these rates
are consistent with other lending rates in the country (which range between
7-1/2% and 9-1/2%). Government, for this Project, has proposed increasing
the medium-term rate from 7-1/2%, to 8-1/2% per annum.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      ZI'e Project would represent the first stage of a long-term program
to develon fisheriei nroduction in Tanzania. It would over five years support
the establishment and development of commercial fisheries at selected centers,
improve fishing techniques and marketing data and provide the basis for
fisheries development in the traditional sector by supporting a pilot fish-
eries program for Ujamaa villages on Lake Tanganyika. It would include:



- 11 -
(a) development of three marine fishing centers;
(b) development of one fishing center at Lake Tanganyika;
(c) a study to assess the market potential for expanded production
of dried dagaa and an investigation into the effect of
chemical pollution on the life cycles of fish in Lake
Tanganyika;
(d) establishment of a pilot Ujamaa fisheries program at Lake
Tanganyika;
(e) provision of transport facilities on Lake Tanganyika;
(f) technical services and future project preparation.
The Ministry of Natural Resources would have overall responsibility for
Project implementation. Each of the proposed fishing centers would be
operated by a joint venture company formed by TAFICO and the local District
Development Corporation having responsibility for the particular geographic
area concerned. The Ministry would have direct responsibility for the market
study, the pollution study and through its regional fisheries extension staff
would - in cooperation with TRDB - be responsible for the Ujamaa fisheries
program.
3.02      The Project would have a dual objective.  The first would be to
increase fish production and improve management within commercial fishing
companies. The second objective would be to develop fishing in the tradi-
tional sector by training fishermen and developing marketing information and
an effective marketing system. This Project would thus provide the basis
for a future second fisheries project which would be designed to further
strengthen extension services, substantially increase fish production in the
traditional sector on Lake Tanganyika, and provide essential inputs such as
credit and other services to Tanzanian fishermen.
B. Detailed Features
Fishing Centers
3.03      The Project would establish four fishing centers - three along the
coast and one on Lake Tanganyika - in an effort to increase the size of the
catch presently achieved using traditional methods and to improve processing
and marketing techniques. These fishing centers would be owned and operated
by joint venture companies formed by TAPICO contributing 60% of the equity
capital and the local District Development Corporation (DDC) contributing the
remaining 40%, with credit provided in each case through TRDB.



- 12 -
3.04      Coastal Fishing Centers.  Three fishing centers would be established
along the coast. The exact locations of these centers has not yet been
established, but these would be determined jointly by the local District
Development Corporations and TAFICO; it is expected that these centers would
be located north of Mohoro bay, with possible sites at Rufiji and Sadaani.
Each of the centers would be provided with ten 10-meter fishing boats equipped
with a 45 h.p. engine. These recommended boats, built to a standard FAO
design, are powerful enough to handle the 16.8 m FAO designed trawl, but low
in fuel consumption and maintenance problems (Annex 2 pages 1 and 2). The
FAO design appears to be well suited for the conditions found along the coast
and is seaworthy enough to handle the prevailing weather and sea conditions;
each boat would also have two sets of trawl gear as well as twine and netting
for repairs. Crews for these boats would be recruited from the local communities
and from among trainees and graduates of the fishing technical training schools;
no difficulties in recruiting crews are expected. Crews would include a
skipper, an engine operator/fislherman and 4 deckhands.  The skipper and engine
operator would receive preliminary training at Mbegani (para. 2.15) before
being entrusted with their duties. Other investments in the center would
include an ice store (chill boxes, adequate supplies of ice are available
from NCCO), vehicles, equipment, a workshop for carrying out routine maintenance
and repairs, and several pre-fabricated buildings. It is expected that each
center would require an absolute minimum of fixed investment, so that if
fishing prospects should later prove better at other spots along the coast,
the centers could be transferred to these locations with minimum disruption
of the normal fishing operations.- No difficulties in moving crews are expected.
3.05      Lake Tanganyika Center.  A permanent fishing center would be
established on Lake Tanganyika at Kigoma. Ten commercial purse seining units
improved in design and simpler to operate but conceptually similar to those
now operating on the lake (para. 2.11) would be provided at the center. Each
unit would include a 12-meter locally built wooden boat powered by an 80 h.p.
diesel engine, along with five sumall light boats fitted with two kerosene
lamps and the required nets and other fishing gear. Other required investment
would include covered drying racks, cold storage facilities, vehicles, equip-
ment and buildings.
Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program
3.06      There are now at least 100 villages along the shore of Lake
Tanganyika, and of these about 20) are in various stages of Ujamaa development.
Most of the villagers are poor and depend on fishing for a large part of their
subsistence. Fishing techniques vary from village to village, but most of the
fishermen work from the shore at night using canoes and some form of light to
attract the fish; some of them are familiar with beach seines, although many
do not have the resources to purchase them. Catamarans and trimarans 1/
fitted with lift nets have been successfully used by fishermen in the Burundi
1/   These are formed by joining two or three boat hulls, and in some cases
are powered by small outboard motors.



- 13 -
waters of the lake. Recently, the FAO project at Kigoma has had some success
with this fishing method. However, some concern has been expressed that
because of differences in currents and winds along the Tanzanian shore these
vessels may not be suitable for use in Tanzanian waters during parts of the
year. If difficulties are overcome, and if this method proves to be successful,
this style of fishing could be included in the pilot fisheries program. In
Zambia, fishermen on Lake Tanganyika use an encircling net called a chiromila
net along with lights to catch dagaa. Given the large quantities of fish
indicated by the UNDP/FAO project findings, and the similarity of the dagaa
in biology and behavior to small anchovies and sardines fished in many widely
separated areas of the world such as the Philippines, the West Coast of
Malaysia, Indonesia, and many South Pacific Islands, it appears reasonable
to assume that slightly modified techniques proven elsewhere would prove to
be highly effective in the hands of experienced village fishermen.
3.07      The pilot fisheries program would be first initiated in a few
villages near Kigoma, and would be gradually expanded to other Ujamaa villages
as experience is gained. While the fishing methods proposed are simple
(several methods may be applicable) and the drying methods are traditional,
eombining and managing the elements of catching, processing, transportation
and marketing may prove to be complex in the village context. As proposed,
this component is intended to have considerable flexibility in regard to
fishing techniques, and village organization. It is designed to provide
increased opportunities for village fishermen to improve catching methods,
organmization and market outlets. Credit would be provided through TRDB to
participating village organizations for the purchase of about five standard
FAO designed small boats powered by 10 h.p. inboard engines (Annex 2 page 7)
and equipped with the necessary nets and other fishing gear. If lift net
fishing techniques prove to be successful, TRDB credit could be provided for
this fishing method on the basis of satisfactory technical and financial
projections. The fish caught would be dried on the shore on covered drying
racks financed under the Project, and then transported either by truck (in
case of villages nearest Kigoma) or over the lake (para 3.08) to Kigoma.
Technical assistance would be provided under the Project (para 3.11) to teach
the villagers how to operate and maintain the boats, nets and other fishing
gear required.
Lake Transport
3.08      As many of the Ujamaa villages along the shores of Lake Tanganyika
are not served by any roads because of the precipitous cliffs and extensive
mountains and as the roads to many others are extremely poor, the Project
would include provision for necessary lake transport facilities to allow
the villages to transport dried dagaa to Kigoma if fishing experience proves
satisfactory and isolated villages demonstrate the capacity to organize fishing
and processing activities and produce dried dagaa in large quantities. The
transport facilities would also be used to distribute basic supplies to these
villages and would help strengthen the presently inadequate transport facilities.



- 14 -
Required investments are envisaged to include two tugs and four barges,
which would be owned, operated and maintained by the Kigoma joint venture
company (para 3.05). The tugs and barges recommended are identical to those
in use by the East African Harbors Corporation in the harbor of Dar es Salaam.
The tug is steel about 11 m long, 4 m wide, and 1.1 m deep, with a 240 h.p.
diesel engine. The barge is steel about 25 m long, 6 m wide, and 3 m draft.
The quantity of dagaa produced per year at full production weighs only about
4,000 tons but the dried dagaa occupies a very large volume for a given
weight. No existing lake transport facilities could handle the volume of
product anticipated. Barges arie recommended since the volume is great but
no cooling or other facilities are required and the barges can be loaded and
unloaded by hand. The barge can be brought up to the shoreline without any
shore facilities except wooden planks to facilitate loading, and suitable
docks are available at Kigoma for unloading. Other types of lake transport
would also be considered if further study indicates they would be more suitable.
Market Study and Investigation of Chemical Pollution
3.09      Market Study.  In view of the value of fish as a source of protein
and given Tanzania's vast unexploited fish resources, a two-year market study
would be undertaken to assess the market prospects for increased production
of both fresh and dried fish. Terms of reference for the study would be
prepared by the Ministry of Natural Resources, and the Ministry would ensure
coordination of this work with the research work now being carried out by the
Food and Nutrition Board and the University of Dar es Salaam. Prior to
initiation of the study, the detailed proposals would be submitted to IDA
for comment and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
The study would concentrate on an assessment of the market prospects for
increased production of dried dagaa from Lake Tanganyika, but it would also
include a small component to examine potential catch rates and market pros-
pects for haplochromis from Lake Victoria (para 2.09); this part of the
study would be designed to provide the necessary data to allow a determina-
tion of whether increased commercial fishing of haplochromis from the lake
is economically justified. It is anticipated that the study would be jointly
implemented by the Food and Nutrition Board, University of Dar es Salaam and
the Ministry of Natural Resources. It is expected that the Board would be
specifically involved in the collection of nutritional data in the various
regions, and that university staff would be responsible for the collection
of data on population concentrations, incomes, and market demand for fish.
The Ministry would utilize staff at the research institute at Nyegezi (para
2.16) to collect data on catch rates for haplochromis from Lake Victoria.
3.10      Pollution Investigation.  An increasing amount of agricultural
chemicals is being used on lands bordering Lake Tanganyika, and as the lake
has no significant outlet, concern has been voiced that unacceptable levels
of these chemicals may begin to accumulate in both the waters and the fish
therein; there are in fact several reports that the level of DDT in fish
from the lake has been increasing each year. A UNDP/FAO Fisheries Project



- 15 -
located in Burundi is looking into this problem and the Bank is following
the results of their work closely. DDT does not appear to constitute a human
health hazard even at levels far in excess of those reported; however, DDT is
known to affect the reproductive cycle of some animals, and it is possible
that fish stocks may be affected by excessive DDT levels at some time in the
future. Consequently, funds would be provided under the Project for a study
to investigate the effects of increasing levels of chemical pollution on the
life cycles of fish in Lake Tanganyika. Terms of reference for the study
would be prepared by the Ministry of Natural Resources and would be submitted
to IDA for comment before award of the research contract.
Technical Assistance
3.11      Technical assistance would be provided within both the Ministry
of Natural Resources and TAFICO to assist in overall Project planning and
coordination, to aid in the establishment of the marine and lake fishing
centers, to train Ujamaa fishermen in motorized fishing techniques, and to
carry out monitoring and evaluation of Project activities. Specifically,
this assistance would provide for the recruitment of about 9 internationally
recruited staff.
(a) Ministry of Natural Resources
(i) A Manager would be recruited to assist in the overall
coordination and planning of Project activities, and
to oversee Project monitoring and evaluation.
(ii) One Fisheries Specialist would be employed to train
extension personnel on Lake Tanganyika; funds would be
provided for the salaries of extension staff, equipment
and supplies for three new mobile fishing units (para
2.14) to assist in this task. The specialist would
then train the extension staff and supervise the
training of Ujamaa fishermen by these extension staff.
(b) TAFICO
(i) A Manager would be recruited for TAFICO headquarters
to assist in the overall planning and execution of
the development of the various fishing centers.
(ii) One Master fisherman and one marine engineer would be
recruited to assist in developing plans for marine
fishing and to give technical support to the three
coastal fishing centers.
(iii) A master fisherman, a marine engineer and a refrigeration
engineer would be recruited to provide technical support
for the fishing center and the lake transport facilities
to be established on Lake Tanganyika.



- 16 -
(iv) An Assistant to the Manager of the Kigoma joint venture
company would be recruited to help with the overall
planning and coordination of the enterprise.
The recruitment of the technical service personnel mentioned in a(i), a(ii),
b(i) and b(iv) on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA would be a condition
of credit disbursement.
Operating Expenses and Working Capital
3.12      The operating costs of technical services staff have been considered
as investment costs for the five-year Project period. Fishing centers' working
capital would be required to cover two months or approximately 20% of annual
operating expenses; the Project costs provide for this working capital. Cash
flow deficits resulting from center operations have not been included in
Project costs and would be financed by short-term bank overdrafts. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
C. Project Costs (Annex 6)
3.13      Total Project costs are estimated at Tsh 99.6 million (US$12.4
million), of which Tsh 56.5 million or 57% represents foreign exchange
requirements. Total Project costs are detailed below:



- 17 -
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
Coastal Fishing Centers        ------ Tsh'000 -------   ------- US$'000 -----  Exchange
Boats                        2,782    2,808   5,590       346     349    695      50
Machinery & Equipment           81       267      348      10      33      43     77
Shore Facilities               421       264     685       52      33      85     39
Working Capital                468       309     777       58       38     96     40
Sub-total                  3,752    3,648   7,400       466     453    919      49
Lake Tanganyika Fishing
Center
Boats                        3,920    3,930   7,850       487     488    975      50
Machinery & Equipment          324    1,651   1,975        40      205    245     84
Shore Facilities             1,446       964   2,410      180     120    300      40
Working Capital                388       257      645      48       32     80     40
Sub-total                  6,078    6,802  12,880       755     845  1,600      53
Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries
Program
Boats                        6,300    6,200  12,500       783      770  1,553     50
Machinery & Equipment          880    2,070   2,950       109      257    366      70
Working Capital                900       600   1,500      112       74    186      40
Sub-total                  8,080    8,870  16,950   1,004   1,101  2,105        52
Lake Transport
Tugs, Barges, etc.             357    2,012   2,369        44      250    294      85
Working Capital                 192      128      320      24       16     40      40
Sub-total                    549    2,140   2,689        68     266    334      80
Market & Pollution Studies    1,930    2,176   4,106        240      270    510      53
Technical Services
Staff Salaries               2,376   13,474  15,850       295   1,674  1,969      85
Housing, Vehicles, etc.      1,647    1,398   3,045       205      173    378      46
Sub-total                  4,023   14,872  18,895       500   1,847  2,347      79
Total Base Cost               24,412   38,508  62,920   3,033   4,782  7,815         61
Contingencies
Physical                     2,450   3,860    6,310       304      480    784      61
Price                       16,233  14,157   30,390   2,017   1,759  3,776         47
Total Project Cost            43,095  56,525   99,620   5,354   7,021 12,375         57



- 18 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing as of December 1975. A
physical contingency of 10% has been included. In addition price contingen-
cies for imported goods and services have been included using rates of 10%
for 1976 and 8% per annum thereasfter; price contingencies on local costs were
provided at 20% for 1976, 15% for 1977-79 and 10% for 1980-85. Import taxes
and duties on Project goods have! been included but are insignificant.
D. Financing
3.14      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Tsh million        US$ million         Z
IDA                      72.4                9.0           72
Government               17.7                2.2            18
Joint Ventures and
Ujamaas                 9.5                1.2            10
Total              99.6                12.4          100
The proposed IDA credit of US$9.0 million would be on standard terms to Gov-
ernment. The credit would finance the foreign exchange costs and 36% of local
costs or about 72% of total project costs. The Government, the joint ventures
and Ujamaas together would finance 28% of total project costs. All Government
and IDA funds, except those for t:he market study and for technical services
would be channelled by Government: to TRDB at 4% interest per annum for 20
years with a 4-year grace period on interest and capital repayments (Annex 5,
Table 3). Loans from TRDB to the! joint venture companies and Ujamaa villages
would represent 85% of the capitaLl costs of the respective investments and
would be advanced at 8.5% interest per annum for 10 years including 3 years
grace period on interest and capital repayments. The remaining 15% would be
contributed by the joint venture companies and Ujamaa villages as equity
capital. Funds for the market study and technical services would be adminis-
tered by the Ministry of Natural Resources. Assurances on the above arrange-
ments and the equity funds to be made available were obtained at negotia-
tions. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and TRDB, acceptable to IDA, had been executed.
E. Procurement
3.15      Contracts for machinery including all marine engines, equipment and
vehicles (US$1.7 million) would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. In evaluation of bids, local
manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% or the existing
rate of import duties, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts (US$0.5
million) and contracts for building of boats (US$4.8 million) which would be



- 19 -
individually small and numerous and therefore unlikely to attract international
bids would be awarded in accordance with the Government's normal competitive
procedures. Because of the weakness of the private sector and the likely lack
of competition in the boat building industry, it is expected that contracts
for construction of boats would be negotiated. Negotiated contracts for the
construction of boats would be submitted to IDA for approval prior to award
of such contracts. For all purchases other than the above, Government pro-
curement procedures, which are satisfactory, would apply to individual pur-
chases not to exceed US$50,000; orders would be bulked to the maximum extent
possible. Draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding US$50,000 would
be submitted to IDA for approval before invitations for bids are issued.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement procedures
would be followed.
F. Disbursements (Annex 7)
3.16      Funds from the credit account would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 80% of each loan approved by TRDB for development of fishing
centers and Ujamaa fishing units (US$5.0 million);
(b) 100% of the foreign or 75% of total expenditures for
technical services, salaries, fees and supporting services
(US$3.0 million);
Disbursements against (a) would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure
indicating that the related investments are only for specific investment plans
approved by IDA. This documentation would not be submitted for review, but
would be retained by the borrower and made available for inspection by IDA
during the course of Project supervision. Disbursements against (b) would
be fully documented. In order to expedite Project start-up, provision would
be made to disburse retroactively up to US$75,000 for expenditure on technical
services, housing and vehicles. Any funds remaining in the credit account
following completion of the Project would be used at the discretion of IDA for
other Project related activities.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.17      TRDB, TAFICO, the joint venture Companies and Ujamaas would maintain
separate records and accounts adequate to explain all Project related activi-
ties. The joint venture companies would maintain all cost and other informa-
tion necessary for proper management control. Assurances on these arrange-
ments would be obtained at negotiations. The accounts of TAFICO are audited
by the Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC) which audits the accounts of TRDB
and other parastatal organizations. In the past, there have been delays in
TAC presenting audited accounts due to a shortage of personnel. Government
and TAC, with the assistance of Swedish aid, have made considerable efforts
and have successfully overcome this problem. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the accounts of the joint venture companies would be,



- 20 -
and the accounts of TAFICO and TRDB would continue to be audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that a certified copy of these
accounts and detailed auditors reported thereon would be submitted to IDA
within six months following the end of their financial year.
H. Project Implementation
3.18      An estimated implementation schedule setting the order of various
steps required for Project implemIentation is given in Annex 8. The most
critical steps in the implementation of this Project will be recruitment
and establishment of technical assistance personnel in Tanzania, the prepara-
tion and approval of investment p3lans and the placing of orders for boats.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Ministry of Natural Resources would have overall responsibility
for all Project activities. In order to assist the Ministry with this task,
a coordinating committee would bet established to provide policy guidelines
for the Project.  Members of the committee would include:  the Director of
Fisheries of the Ministry of Natural Resources, the General Manager of
TAFICO, the specialist Managers to be provided under the Project within
TAFICO and the Ministry, the General Manager of TRDB, representatives from
the Prime Minister's Office and from the External Finance Division of the
Treasury, and the relevant regional development directors. The Director of
Fisheries would serve as Project coordinator. It was agreed at negotiations
that the establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The fishing centers would each be managed
by a joint venture company formed by TAFICO and the relevant District Develop-
ment Corporation. The Ujamaa program would be managed by TRDB in conjunction
with the regional fisheries extension service, and the lake transport facili-
ties would be owned and operated by the joint venture company to be established
at Kigoma. The market study would be carried out under the direction of the
Ministry of Natural Resources.
Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) (Annex 3)
4.02      The Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (para 2.15) was established
in March 1974, under the Ministry of Natural Resources and functions as a
holding company having the followding service divisions: Planning and Coordi-
nation, Finance and Administration, and Purchasing; the service division
chiefs are currently assisted by a total staff of about ten persons. The
General Manager is responsible to a Board of Directors appointed by the
Minister of Natural Resources and the chairman is appointed by the President.



- 21 -
TAFICO's resources include funds provided by Parliament either as grants or
loans, loans from Government and other sources, and revenues from its
operations. TAFICO would supervise Project implementation at each of the
fishing centers, for this purpose its staff would be supported by six
internationally recruited fisheries specialists (para 3.11).
Fishing Centers
4.03      TAFICO and the DDC, where the proposed fishing center is to be
located, would form a joint venture company to establish, develop and operate
the fishing center. TAFICO would be the majority shareholder, having a 60%
equity holding. Each center would be managed by a Tanzanian manager. The
center manager with TAFICO assistance would prepare an investment plan for the
center. These plans would cover the fishing techniques to be employed and
relevant marketing and resource details. Each plan would be forwarded to the
coordinating committee for review, approval and submission to TRDB. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that prior to approval by TRDB, all center
investment plans would also be submitted to IDA for comment. The fishing
vessels at the centers would each have a qualified skipper and mechanic.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that each skipper and mechanic
would be suitably qualified (para. 2.15).
Ulamaa Villages Fisheries Program
4.04      About 20 Ujamaa villages located along the Tanzanian shore of Lake
Tanganyika would participate in the Project Ujamaa fisheries program. It
is expected that about 100 fishing units would be established over the five-
year development period, although the exact number and their allocation among
the participating villages would be determined once the program is underway.
As this would be an experimental program utilizing a technology new to the
villagers, the program would be phased over the five years to allow for the
training of village crews and for an adequate demonstration period during
which time the program would also be under technical evaluation and assess-
ment. It is believed that once the program is successfully underway, the
rate of build-up of the village fleets could be accelerated if this should
prove feasible. The rate of build-up of the fleet is expected to be 10 boats
in the first year, 20 boats in each of the second, third and fourth years
and 30 boats in the fifth year. Selection of participating Ujamaa villages
would be the responsibility of TRDB, acting in cooperation with the regional
authorities. Each village would be evaluated on the basis of a wide range
of factors, including:
(a) stage of Ujamaa development achieved by the village and
the quality of its management;
(b) number of families and average family income;
(c) sources of income;



- 22 -
(d) financial viability of the Ujamaa village;
(e) number of fishermen and number and size of existing
fishing craft;
(f) fishing techniques employed, estimated size and
composition of annual catch;
(g) landing and related fisheries facilities; and
(h)  percentage of catch marketed, where marketed, and
transport facilities available.
TRDB, together with the particular Ujamaa village, would determine the number
of units to be established at each village, the identity of the captains for
these boats, crew wages and method of payment, details of the training pro-
grams for both the mobile fishing units and the village crews, the recipient
of the loan, size of the loan and the expected method of repayment, expected
marketing arrangements, etc. ]'rior to approval by TRDB of any loans to
specific villages, TRDB would fEorward to IDA for comment the identity and
relevant data for each village to be included in the program. Procedures for
selection of the participating villages, the number of units to be established
and other aspects of the UjamaaL program were discussed with Government at
negotiations. This component would be reviewed periodically in view of the
difficulties involved and if netcessary, such remaining part of the component
and the funds allocated for it could be cancelled.
Training
4.05      The training of the mobile fishing units and of the village crews
would comprise one of the most important aspects of the entire ujamaa program.
An internationally recruited fisheries specialist (para. 3.11) to be employed
within the Ministry of Natural Resources would train the local extension staff
in the particular fishing techniques required; he would also draw up a program
for the training of Ujamaa fishermen and would supervise their training by
the mobile units. This specialist would also be responsible for the investi-
gation of alternative fishing tiechniques for possible inclusion in the Ujamaa
program. Finally, he would liaise with the ongoing fisheries program now being
carried out in this area by FAO/UNDP. Details of the training program and of
progress in the investigation of alternative fishing techniques would be
forwarded to IDA for comment at intervals of not more than 6 months.



- 23 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
5.01      The Project would result in increased production of shrimp dagaa,
table fish and other fish. Total fish production in Tanzania is currently
estimated at 165,000 m tons a year, with between 5% and 10% of the total
entering commercial markets. Annual incremental Project production would
average about 3% of present total production reaching at full development
about 21,000 m tons valued at about Tsh 40.0 million (US$5.0 million). The
sources of this production would be:
Coastal Centers                m tons      Tsh '000
Shrimp                           375         4,500
Table fish                        750        3,450
Other fish                     1,125         1,125
Lake Tanganyika (Kigoma) Center
Dagaa                          2,200         3,300
Table fish                     1,100         3,850
Other                          2,200         3,300
Ujamaa Units
Dagaa                         13,500        20,250
21,250       39,775
Marketing, Processing and Prices
5.02      Fish purchased from coastal fishing centers would be marketed
commercially. The National Cold Chain Organization (NCCO) (para 2.13) would
collect fresh fish daily from the landing centers for distribution by truck
or rail to the main central markets at Tanga and Dar-es-Salaam. It is
expected that only a very small amount of these fish would be exported (less
than 1%). The fish from Lake Tanganyika would be marketed by the Kigoma joint
venture company through existing channels. The table and other fish landed
by the purse seining units (para 3.05) would be iced and placed in a chill
room pending freezing or distribution fresh to Kigoma, Tabora, Dodoma and
other towns which can easily be reached by rail; a train leaving Kigoma each
night for Dar-es-Salaam would be used to carry frozen fish in refrigerated
containers. This fish would be marketed by the NCCO. The dagaa caught by
these units would be dipped in brine and then spread on drying racks for a
period of about two or three days. The racks would be fitted with removable



- 24 -
plastic raincovers to permit drying during the rainy season. The dagaa would
then be packed in insect-resistant bags and transported by truck or rail to
the major consumption and distribution centers. Dagaa from the Ujamaa villages
would be collected by the Kigoma joint venture company, transported over the
lake on barges (para 3.08) to Kigoma and then handled with the dagaa already
there. It is expected that following completion of the market study (para
3.09), TAFICO would play an increasing role in the marketing and distribution
of the fish.
5.03      Fish prices are not controlled by Government.  Monthly and seasonal
price fluctuations are substantial, and prices vary from place to place.
The Project incremental fish production is not expected to have any signifi-
cant effect on prices since it :is matched by a proportionate increase in
population. Based on available information the average current boatside
prices for Project production are estimated as below:
Type                           Price
Marine Fish                      (Tsh per kg)
Prawns                           12.00
Table Fish Grade I                7.00
Grade II              3.00
Other fish                        1.00
Lake Fish
Table fish                        3.50
Other fish                        1.50
Dagaa (dry weight, Kigoma)        4.50
These levels are approximately equal to prices in surrounding countries.  Dry
weight dagaa prices for the Ujamaa component have been assumed at a level of
Tsh 3.00/kg (equivalent to Tsh 1.00/kg wet weight). This compares with a
current average price of Tsh 4.50 per kilo within Tanzania; the Tsh 1.50
difference covers marketing costs; of the lake transport facilities. Prices
at the Ujamaa village level should be revised on a regular basis to ensure
they will provide adequate rates of returns to producers, as well as to the
lake transport facilities; particular attention would be given to this problem
by the proposed market study. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that TAFICO would consult with IDA from time to time on prices paid for dried
dagaa by the Kigoma joint venture company to Ujamaa village producers.
Producer Benefits
5.04      Financial rates of return were calculated for Project components;
these were estimated at 23% for the coastal fishing centers, 26% for the
Kigoma fishing center including the lake transport facilities and 21% for the



- 25 -
Ujamaa program. In calculating these rates, constant prices estimated at
December 1975 levels were used based on current fish prices with the excep-
tion of the estimated price paid by the Kigoma joint venture to the Ujamaa
villages. The Ujamaa villages participating in the Projecz. would derive cash
revenues after allowing for capital replacement of about Tsh 72,000 (US$9,000)
per boat per annum at full development; of this total about Tsh 35,000 (US$4,300)
would be paid in wages to the crews of the fishing units, leaving a net profit
to the Ujamaa of about Tsh 37,000 (US$4,600) per annum. Assuming an average
of 500 families and five boats per Ujamaa this net profit would result in an
incremental family income of Tsh 370, a 20% increase over the current subsis-
tence income of Tsh 400 per person. The Project would provide part time em-
ployment for about 700 persons at the fishing centers and the Ujamaa villages.
Government Benefits (Annex 9)
5.05      The fishing centers would produce a net surplus by about year 5;
this surplus would be subject to tax by Government, and a proportion of the
remainder would be made available to TAFICO on the basis of its equity holdings.
As a result of the Project it is expected that TAFICO would show a surplus
beginning in year 5. This would total some Tsh 15 million (US$1.9 million)
by year 10, and would increase substantially thereafter (Annex 3, Table 3).
The Project would result in a net cumulative cash surplus to Government of
Tsh 11 million (US$1.4 million) by year 8, and Tsh 106 million (US$13.2
million) by year 20.
VI. ECONONIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The major benefit from the Project would be increased production
of both fresh and dried fish; this would result in increased fish consumption
in many rural areas where nutritional levels are low, as well as the opening
up of new urban markets for this low cost, high protein food. Another
important benefit would be the development and demonstration of more sophis-
ticated fishing techniques at the village level, thus enabling local fisher-
man to better exploit an existing but under-utilized resource. The provision
of transport facilities on Lake Tanganyika would effectively open up more
remote areas of the lake shore to trade, would allow better access by extension
and other personnel, and would provide a convenient market channel for village
production.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis (Annex 10)
6.02      The overall economic rate of return for the Project over 20 years
is estimated at 27%. Individual rates of return were calculated for several
Project components; these are estimated at 22% for the coastal centers, 28%
for the Kigoma fishing center including lake transport facilities, and 30%



- 26 -
for the Ujamaa program. In these calculations, technical services staff were
included in the relevant components, except for that element which is intended
for future project preparationi. Present boat side fish prices were used
in this analysis with the exception of the estimated price paid for Ujamaa
production by the Kigoma joint venture; although it is expected that this
price would be adjusted over time these adjustments would not adversely affect
the Ujamaa village program or the Kigoma Center rates of return (para 5.03).
Unskilled labor was shadow priced at Tsh 2,000 per annum, the equivalent of
foregone subsistence production; all other labor was costed at the prevailing
wage rates, which are assumed to reflect the economic cost of this type of
labor.  Foreign exchange was shadow priced at a rate of Tsh 10.0 per US$1.00
(as compared with an official rate of Tsh 8.05 per US$1.00) to reflect more
accurately the value of foreign exchange to Tanzania. The Project would be
relatively insensitive to changes in the basic parameters.  A 10X increase
in capital costs would reduce the rate of return by about 2%. A 10% increase
in operating costs would reduce the rates of return by about 3 percentage
points. A 10% decrease in benefits would reduce the rate of return by 6%.
A one year delay in obtaining the benefits of the Ujamaa village program
would reduce the Project's rale of return to 19% while a delay of two years
would reduce it to 16%. Sens:itivity analyses for the individual Project
components are shown in Annex 10.
6.03      The major risk associated with the Project would be the ability of
Government to recruit and traln sufficient crews in the use of relatively
sophisticated and much more capital-intensive fishing techniques, and the
ability of the fisheries speciLalist to undertake the training of the mobile
extension unit and the Ujamaa units at an early stage in Project development.
It is expected, however, that these risks can be minimized by the careful
phasing and built-in flexibility of the Project and the provision of inter-
nationally recruited technical services staff.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal points:
(a) prior to initiation of the market study and the pollution
investigations, detailed proposals would be submitted
to IDA for comment (paras. 3.09 and 3.10);
(b)  prior to approval by TRDB, all investment plans for the
fishing centers would be submitted to IDA for comment
(para. 4.03);
(c) each skipper and mechanic would be suitably qualified
(para. 4.03);



- 27 -
(d) before approval by TRDB of loans to individual Ujamaa
villages, TRDB would forward to IDA for comment details
as to: the phasing of the Ujamaa program; the expected
size of the loans, the details of the training program
for both the mobile fishing units and the Ujamaa units,
details of progress in investigations of alternative fishing
techniques, the recipient of the loan and the proposed methods
of repayments, expected marketing arrangements as well as
other relevant data on each of the villages (para 4.04 and
4.05), and
(e) TAFICO would consult with IDA from time to time on prices
paid for dried dagaa by the Kigoma joint venture company
to Ujamaa producers (para. 5.03).
7.02      A condttion of credit disbursement for each component would be
that the principal technical service personnel for that component had been
recruited on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.11).
7.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be (a) the execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA between Government and TRDB
(para. 3.14) and (b) the establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee
(para. 4.01).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
would be suitable for IDA Credit of US$9.0 million to the Government of
Tanzania.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries Resources
1.        The fisheries resources of Tanzania occur along the continental
margin of the Western Indian Ocean, in the large inland lakes and in other
fresh waters such as swamp and rivers. Because of the great variety of envi-
ronments, and the evolutionary history of their formation, the kinds of fish,
the method of catching them and the long term prospects for fisheries develop-
ment vary greatly depending upon the geographic location considered. Three
specific environments are important to the present project, the inshore waters
of the Indian Ocean and the territorial waters of Lake Tanganyika and Victoria.
Current levels of catch are shown in Table 1.
Marine Resources
2.        Although much remains to be learned about the inshore waters of the
coastal countries of Eastern Africa, the extensive studies of the International
Indian Ocean Expedition and the work of many other scientists and scientific
organizations provide us with a good overall picture of the probable extent
of fisheries resources and their potential for development.
3.        Striking seasonal changes occur in the degree to which nutrients
accumulated in deeper ocean levels are brought to the surface by winds, a proc-
ess called upwelling. Upwelling is associated with all major coastal fisheries,
and occurs for a brief period of one or two months during the southern summer
all along the shores of Kenya and Tanzania but more markedly in the coastal
waters of Kenya and in the northern waters of Tanzania. In the remaining months
the waters are among the less productive ones in the Indian Ocean.
4.        These patterns of upwelling, enrichment, and evidence of primary pro-
ductivity are followed by similar patterns of secondary (Zooplankton) and
tertiary (fish) production such that the biomass is apparently greater during
the later months of the southern summer, but poor relative to other much richer
Indian Ocean areas such as along the Somalia coast or the Arabian peninsula.
5.        Our ability to translate measurements of grams of organic carbon per
cubic milliliter of ocean water and similar measurements to tons of valuable
fish per hour of trawling is unsatisfactory and only indicative estimates of
fair, good, or rich areas for fishing result from such measurements. Even so
such estimates provide guidelines which strongly suggest that coastal fishing
development in Tanzania should proceed cautiously.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        Two main groups of zommercial fish occur in the coastal waters,
surface associated (pelagic) ind bottom associated (demersal).
7.        In the marine waters the present project is concerned only with the
capture by trawling of three kinds of demersal species: shrimps, table grade
fish, and industrial grade fish.
8.        Fishing grounds.  The 550-mile coastline of mainland Tanzania is
characterized in general by a narrow continental shelf, which drops off
sharply after a depth of about: 60 meters. From a trawling standpoint, the
total area of about 12,000 km'n of continental shelf is reduced by coral
formations to an effective trawlable area estimated at about 1500 km2 (to a
depth of 20 meters, where most of the trawling has been done to date). Another
2000 km2 is thought to be available to trawling in depths of 20 to 60 meters.
9.        Shrimp.  Several species of shrimp occur in Tanzanian waters, the
most important are Penaeus indicus the white shrimp, because of its abundance,
and Penaeus monodon the tiger shrimp, because of its size and value. Penaeus
indicus probably makes up 70 percent of the catch of shrimp, Penaeus monodon
15 percent and various other species the remainder.
10.       Shrimp in Tanzania coastal waters are known to be found mainly in
shallow waters of less than 20 meters depth. The shrimp normally prefer
habitats with estuarine water condition and muddy bottoms. Such habitats are
found off river deltas and moui:hs. The rivers, Pangani, Wami, Ruvu, Ndilita,
Rufiji, Matandu and a number oif seasonal rivulets are important.
11.       The best known grouncls are those off the Rufiji delta (harvested by
fishing villages of Ndondutawa, Muhoro, Mchungu, Kikale and South Kisiju),
Bagamoyo (Wide and Utonde), Sandaani extending northwards to buyuni, Pangani
(Kipumbwi and Mkwaja). Other prawns areas are found in small patches around
kilwa, Samanga (Kilwa District) and North of Tanga (Moa). From figures avail-
able, Rufiji and Sadaani appear to be the most productive grounds.
12.       Marine biologists have estimated the sustainable yield of shrimp from
trawl grounds deeper than 6 meters from various data to be roughly 1,300 metric
tons per annum (live weight). However, it is known that an additional 250-300
tons of shrimp are caught in water shallower than 6 metres and catch rates are
expected to be higher in these waters than in waters deeper than 6 meters. It
can be tentatively estimated that total annual sustainable yield of shrimp
should be between about 1300 and 1700 tons per annum.
13.       Another species, which has not been exploited so far, Penaeus
marginutus (Royal Red), is found in deeper waters of about 450 meters along
the slopes of the continental shelf, and may be important in future fisheries
development.
14.       Fish.  Table grade fish particularly red snapper and flat fish
are the most important table grade fish caught by trawling. In addition, a
large number of less valuable species of small sized fish are caught.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
15.       Representative of this group are species with colorful common names
such as the parrot fish, coal fish, rabbit fish, surgeon fish and smelts.
Various small edible sharks and rays are also caught.
16.       Little is known of the sustainable yield of these fish and because
of the large number of species involved and their rather different life
cycles it will be difficult to determine optiumum catch values for any of
them except perhaps for the snappers. A development program prepared under
FAO auspices concluded that the present marine catch of about 25,000 tons
per annum could be doubled by 1980 without serious consequences to the fish
population.
Lake Tanganyika
17.       Lake Tanganyika is reportedly the second deepest lake in the world.
The volume of the lake has been estimated to be 19 x 1012 cubic meters.
Burundi, Tanzania, Zaire and Zambia share shore line. The territorial
boundaries of the lake are not disputed and are accepted as recorded on
official maps of the region. The Tanzanian portion of the lake occupies
about 13,500 square km or about 41% of the lake's surface.
18.       The upper layer of the lake is clear and the penetration of sunlight
may extend to 30 meters. There is a marked themocline at about 40 to 70
meters depth below which the water contains no oxygen. The sides of the lake
formed by the rift fault are precipitous and there is virtually no marginal
shelf. The monsoon winds which blow from June through October induce a
generally clockwise flow in the lake and upwelling, which occurs along the
Tanzanian shore. The vind-driven currents in the lake along the Tanzanian
shore are strong at times.
19.       Fish resources.  The deep reservoir of organic material in Lake
Tanganyika, seasonal upwelling, and a limited habitat for bottom dewelling
species form an ideal environment for pelagic fish species.
20.       Six species of fish make up most of the pelagic biomass:  The
"sardines" Stolothrissa Tanganicae and Limnothrissa miodon (local Tanzania
names "dagaa" and "lumbo", respectively), the predators Luciolates stappersii
("mikebuka"), Lates microlepis ("nonzi"), Lates angustifrons ("kibizi" or
"gombi") and Lates mariae ("sangala"). Dagaa makes up more than 75 percent
of the catch in both traditional and industrial fisheries.
21.       The UNDP/FAO fisheries project in Tanzania has been conducting
acoustic surveys of the lake. Preliminary evidence indicates a standing
stock of about 2.5 million tons of fish (all species) of which various
estimates suggest that up to one third of the standing stock might be harvested
annually. The very large stock size and the relatively high potential off-
take result from the enormous reservoir of productivity in the lake combined
with deep light penetration, good nutrient mixing in the upper photic zone
and short lived prey species which complete their life cycle in about one



ANNEX 1
Page 4
year. Spawning appears to take place throughout the year. Although the
larger predator species can probably be affected by large off-takes of their
prey species, and direct capture, the magnitudes of the available fish rela-
tive to present and contemplated fishery off-takes is so great as to pose no
overfishing problems at this time. However large the overall fishery biomass
appears to be, the variance of stock size and densities of prey species can
be expected to be great. All pelagic stocks of similar species are charater-
ized by widely fluctuating abundance curves.  In some years vast numbers of
fish occur only to be followedc by years of relative scarcity.
22.       Fisheries strategy for the lake in the future therefore should be
based upon a level of fishing harvest at the lower levels of the abundance
curves, lest heavy fishing mortality coincide with heavy natural mortality
resulting in a catastrophic failure of the fishery, as has taken place in some
oceanic fisheries for sardine, and herrings.
23.       The acoustic surveys have revealed that the distribution of fish
varies greatly from one survey to the next and no generalization about the
geographic distribution of fish are possible on the basis of present informa-
tion.
Lake Victoria
24.       Lake Victoria is the world's second largest lake.  Compared to Lake
Tanganyika it is shallow having a maximum depth of about 90 meters, but much
of the lake is between 40-70 meters deep. The lake is highly productive par-
ticularly in the northern part.
25.       Fisheries resources.  In Lake Victoria the family of fish called
cichlids are the most important: and numerous. Two genera of this family
Tilapia and Haplochromis predominate. Only a few species of Tilapia are
important but over 150 species of Haplochromis have been identified, and a
bewildering complexity of differences occur between them in their appearance,
distribution, food habits, and so forth.
26.       Fishing zones.  It will be convenient in the discussions which
follow to distinguish three zones primarily based on the depth of water.
It should be recognized that the zones reflect fishing characteristics. The
first zone is one of shallow water from shore to about 10 meters, the
second from about 10 to 20 meters, the third a deeper one beyond 20 meters
in depth to about 65 meters, beyond which few fish are caught. The cichlid
family occurs in all depth zones and the various species have fairly definite
depth distribution preferences.
27.       Resources of deep waters.  The resources of the deeper waters of
the lake have been known to be very great for over two decades. In recent
years The East African Freshwater Fisheries Research Organization (EAFFRO)
assisted by FAO/UNDP has established by experimental trawling the occurrence
of very substantial resources of a number of species of Haplochromis in the



ANNEX 1
Page 5
deeper waters of the lake. Indicative figures of annual sustainable yield
are about 200,000 tons. Since Haplochromis is a substantial part of the
present commercial catch from shallow waters and any very large quantities
landed would disrupt local fresh fish markets, it has been suggested that a
large part of the Haplochromis from deeper water be utilized as dried fish
or as industrial fish processed as fish meal for livestock feeding. Much
of the work of the EAFPRO research group has been oriented toward establish-
ing a preliminary data base line on catch from which economic feasibility
projections might be made to develop a modern fish meal industry.
28.       Shallow water resources.  As many as twenty species of fish are
caught in the shallow waters by gill net, beach seine, and set lines. The
most valued species is Tilapia esculenta which has become scarce in the gill
net catches in recent years because of an excess of effort. Table 1 shows the
recorded catch by weight and percentage in the inshore waters of Tanzania.
29.       Mid-depth resources.  Little is known of the abundance of fish in
mid-depth ranges. The species composition is similar to the shallow waters
but tending to have larger percentage of Haplochromis. Commercial trawling
with large mesh trawls has proven that large specimens of Tilapia esculenta
occur in this zone. The presence of these fish here and their virtual absence
from the gill net fishery suggests that these fish are highly territorial in
their behavior. If this is true it suggests that widespread trawling may
quickly reduce local populations of cichlids and possibly other sedentary
species on an area by area basis. Considerable work remains to be done
before the fisheries dynamics of Lake Victoria are understood despite the
progress made by the many studies which have been undertaken in the past.
Other Fisheries Resources in Tanzania
30.       Several large lakes and swamp provide substantial quantities of
fresh water fish (see table 1). The NCCO (National Cold Chain Organization)
has developed receiving stations, loaned money for nets and equipment, and
improved transportation facilities at the more important Lakes. Given the
scarcity of managerial resources and what appears to be a limited scope for
incremental increases in catch there does not appear to be good grounds for
including these waters in the plans for the present project.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
:L972 FISHERIES PRODUCTION
Freshwater Fisheries                          Estimated Production
Major Waters                                 in metric tons
Lake Victoria                                       40,900
Lake Tanganyika                                     49,000
Lake Rukwa                                           6,600
Lake Nyasa                                          20,900
Nyumba ya Mungu Dam                                  7,300
Lake Kitangiri                                       1,800
Sub-total                                        126,500
Minor Waters
Singida Region                                         200
Arusha Region                                         1,700
Dodoma Region                                           600
Iringa Region                                           50
Morogoro Region                                         250
Tobora Region                                        4,200
Others                                               2,000
Sub-total                                          9,000
Total Fresh Water Production                       135,500
Marine Fisheries
Coast Region                                         8,600
Tanga Region                                         6,500
Mtwara Region                                         1,300
Lindi Region                                        11,200
Sub-total (Fish)                                  27,600
Crustacea (Whole)                                       300
Beche de Mer                                             50
Sea Weeds                                                50
Sea Shells                                              700
Total Production (other
Marine Products)                                   1,100
Total Marine Productioni                            28,700
TOTAL                                            164,200
SOURCE: Tanzania Department of Fisheries.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fishing Technology Equipment and Mode of Operation
Indian Ocean Coast
1.        Fishing Grounds.  The continental shelf off the Tanzanian coast is
rather narrow, therefore productive inshore trawlable grounds are generally
limited to areas where silt from rivers and freshwater run-off from the land
prevents coral growth. The major known coastal trawlgrounds are in the
Rufiji river delta and between Bagamoyo and Pangani. Shrimps, as well as
fish, are caught on these grounds and past commercial trawling operations
have aimed primarily at catching shrimp, using trawlnets specially designed
to selectively catch shrimp species rather than fish. However, experience
gained in India has demonstrated that the total value of the catch can be
doubled by using trawlnets designed to catch both fish and shrimp, and such
mixed fishing is recoumended for Tanzania.
2.        Boats.  In past commercial trawling operations, medium sized (15m
and 17m) vessels based in Dar es Salaam have made trips of 25 days, processing
the catch on board. This is more expensive than the cost of operating small
day boats operating from villages close to the fishing grounds. For such day
fishing, the most economical boat is the one which is just powerful enough to
tow an effective size of trawl, big enough to carry the catch, and seaworthy
enough for the prevailing weather and sea conditions. For fish and shrimp
trawling in the narrow belt of coastal grounds off Tanzania, the recommended
size of boat is 10 m long powered by an engine of about 45 hp.
3.        Engines.  The engines should be equipped with a fixed blade properller
of a pitch and diameter giving optimum towing pull at trawling speed (2-1/2-3
knots) rather than at free running speed, and absorbing only about 80-90% of
rated engine brake hp at continuous output at reduced r.p.m. (for example,
1500 r.p.m.). Distance from the fishing base to the trawling grounds will
generally be short and the boats will be towing the net the major part of each
fishing day. Therefore, a low propeller r.p.m. (about 400-500) at trawling
speed should be specified. This normally requires a reduction gear of about
3:1 ratio. Also, an instrument panel (engine mounted), 3/3" bilge pump with
pies and fittings, foundation bolt, zinc anodes for outboard mounting, and a
fuel oil sediment bowl (between fuel oil tank and engine) as well as spare parts
for approximately 10% of the engine cost should be specified. For every
10 boats a complete extra engine should be purchased as a spare in case of
major engine damage. A fuel oil tank of 100 litre capacity should be fitted
in each boat. The average ambient temperature and relative humidity, should
be provided when ordering the engines.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Hulls.  (Appendix 1). A simple and easily built hull for this type
of fishing is design VBB (drawing No. 10) in FAO Fisheries Technical Paper No.
134, F11M/T 134, FISHING BOAT DESIGNS: 2 V-BOTTOM BOATS. This design is for
a 9m (30ft) boat but can be lengthened by adding an extra frame at the maximum
beam section to obtain a tota:L length of 10m. The inboard layout should
provide for a deck aft (at least 6ft long) for handling the trawl gear and
sorting the catch, and a fish hold with a big hatch and with a hatch cover in
sections.
5.        Handling the Catch.  The catch should be sorted into categories by
value, i.e. shrimp tails, high value table fish, and low value small fish,
and placed in clean boxes stored in the hold as quickly as possible to avoid
spoilage due to exposure to high temperatures. Heads should be removed from
the shrimp and big table grade fish gutted. The use of ice for all or at least
the most valuable part of the catch is desirable to ensure good quality, but
the availability and cost of ice will decide the extent of its use. It is
assumed that the lowest value small fish will be sold in and near the landing
place while the bulk of the shrimp tails and table fish would be brought iced
to Dar es Salaam and Tanga for local marketing and/or export.
6.        Trawls.  Combination shrimp/fish trawls similar to those commonly
used in India (see design drawings with specifications in FAO FR:MISC./69/1:
Techniques of Finding and Catching Shrimp in Commercial Fishing, pp. 165, 167)
should be suitable for coastal fishing in Tanzania. A boat with an engine
rated at 45-50 b.h.p. at maximum continuous output but operated at reduced
r.p.m. to give 40 h.p. when trawling could use such a trawl net of about
5Sft (16.8m) headline length with 25 x 50 inch (63 x 126 cm) otter boards
weighing 85 to 95 lb (38 to 43 kg), fitted with broad mud skis (see illustra-
tion on p. 172 of above mentionied FAO paper) to reduce "plowing"i into soft
mud bottom. The nets should be made of polyethylene twine which is cheaper
than nylon, keeps cleaner of desbris and gills less small fish. The rope warps
should preferably be of polyester (Terylene) or polypropylene which stretch
less than nylon. The warps should be marked at 10m intervals and frequently
checked for equal lengths to avoid uneven pull on the net which impairs its
catching power. Two sets of trawlgear should be delivered with each boat as
well as twine and netting for repairs.
7.        Mode of Vessel Operation.  It is assumed that the boats would leave
before sunrise and return at dusk. With 2 to 4 hrs free steaming to and from
fishing grounds, 6 one-hour tows can be made to average six hours per day of
effctive fishing time. During the best shrimp fishing season the boats should
operate 6 days a week. In-so-far as possible, stops for rest and periodic
maintenance of boat and engine should fall in the poorer fishing season.
Repairs of the trawl nets can normally be made at sea, except for major
damage.  To avoid loss of trawl gear fouled on obstacles on the sea bottom,
a float should be attached to a line of 3 times the fishing depth tied to the
codend. The net and other boards can then be pulled backwards from the obstacles
and saved. A suitable crew for each boat consists of a skipper, an engine
operator/fisherman and 4 deckhetnds. The skipper and engine operator must
undergo proper training before being entrusted with their tasks.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        Crew Compensation.  In all parts of the world it is found necessary
to provide an incentive to fishermen to work hard to obtain maximum value
catches. The common system is to pay a low fixed salary to all, including
the skipper, plus a share of the catch value which should provide about half
of the total income for the deckhands and progressively more for the engine
operator and skipper.
9.        Center Maintenance.  Each fishing centre will have an engine workshop
and a mechanic who is responsible for routine preventive maintenance, periodic
engine overhauls and such repairs as can be effective locally. The boats must
be painted with anti fouling bottom paint every six months to minimize damage
by marine borers. This can be done easily by beaching at high tide and painting
during low tide.
10.       Catch and Income Assumptions.  With the size and h.P. of boat, type
of net (1-1/2" or 1-2/4" codend mesh size depending on grounds and season)
and the mode of operation described above, and assuming a minimum of 220
fishing days, the following average annual catch per boat should be about
as follows:
12,500 kg shrimp tails               sh. 12/kg =    Sh. 150,000
10,000 kg high quality fish          sh. 7/kg  =    Sh.  70,000
15,000 kg med. qual. fish
(catchfish)                    sh. 3/kg  =    Sh.  45,000
37,500 kg low value small fish       sh. 1/kg  =    Sh.  37,500
Gross value of catch                      Sh. 302,500
Fishery on Lake Tanganyika
Fishing Conditions
11.       Light attraction at night is used in conjunction with handheld
scoopnets ("lusenga"), liftnets operated from catamarans, beach seines, and
purse seines. In Tanzania almost the entire present catch is taken by
artisanal fishermen using non-powered canoes. Three purse seining units
have operated recently on and off from Kigoma, with foreign skippers. These
units are of a style used in the Adriatic sea, an out-dated and complex two-
boat method of hauling the net. This system has been replaced with one boat
purse seining almost everywhere in the world, but even so it gives high catch
rates on Lake Tanganyika and a few units have been in operation in all the
four countries bordering the Lake. Simpler and more modern purse seining
units are recommend for the Project and offer a viable solution to an increased
utilization of the off shore resources. These vessels lend themselves easily
to use by the local fisherman after training. Since the purse seiners will
operate in offshore waters they should not interfere with the traditional
fisheries but rather supplement them.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.      Boats and Equipment. Each fishing unit will consist of one locally
built wooden boat of 12m with a maximum beam of about 4m powered by a diesel
engine of about 80 hp with power take-off for driving a purse winch; also 5
small, light boats fitted withi two kerosene pressure lamps of at least 2,000
candle power. The purse wincht with two warping heads should be located
slightly forward of midships with its axle pointing force and aft. The purse
davit should be located on the starboard side abeam of the winch and just
forward of midships so that the boat will not tend to turn the properller
into the net during pursing and hauling in the net. The winch should give a
hauling speed of at least 0.3mn/second at half of rated engine r.p.m. Two hand-
powered reels should be located abeam of the warping heads at the port railing
for storing the purse wire. The boat should have a flush deck aft, free of
obstructions which could tear the net during setting and hauling. All the
purse seiners should have an echo sounder (of medium-low cost) and a scale
suitable for fish finding the upper 70-100m of the lake water, and located
in a safe dry place-to starboard or front-in the wheelhouse. Free deck space
should be left at the stern of least 70m between the wheelhouse and transom
for stacking the net.
13.      The present practice on the two boat purse seiners is to store
the fish in boxes on deck. However, the 12m boats proposed for one-boat purse
seining are smaller and at least a part of the catch should be stored in a
hold, sorted into boxes without using ice. The hold should have a large, low
hatch for ease of stowing and unloading the fish boxes. Overhead working lights
and navigation lights should be fitted as well as a searchlight. A ventilated
space with cots should be arranged in the bow section for the crew to rest
during sailing and waiting on the grounds. The boats should be fitted with
an over-size engine mounted electric generator, as well as with a small (2kw)
diesel-generator set and suitable batteries to provide light when the engine
is stopped.
14.      The Net. The purse s3einers should be of the general type ordered
by FAO for the Lake Tanganyika Fisheries Project, with such modifications as
may be needed after experience with the FAO-designed net is gained. The
present design is 350m long and 100m deep (stretched) with 12mm stretched
mesh size in the bunt and main body of the body of the net, of rather light
construction. The bunt is in one end. All netting is of nylon. This net is
meant for catching both dagaa and predators in order to maximize the value of
the catch.
15.       Fishing. The purse seiners will leave port in mid-afternoon towing
5 light boats each. Unless dense concentrations of fish are in a known area,
the fleet of purse seiners should fan out in an orderly, prearranged searching
pattern. At least one boat should be fitted with a sonar of 1250m range and
a radio-telephone so it can inform the other boats of fish schools detected.
All boats should carry radio receivers. All should use their echo sounders
to detect fish concentrations which are in dense schools in the day time but
generally spread out in thin latyers at night. Every effort should be made to
locate the light boats over scbLools detected before sunset by echo sounder or
sonar, rather than scatter then. at random. With experience, daylight purse



ANNEX 2
Page 5
seining on dense schools detected by the acoustic equipment may well make
fishing possible during the day eliminating the time lost during bright moon
periods which now force the boats to be idle for several days each month.
16.       The light boats should use sea anchors to reduce wind drift when
needed (the lake is too deep to anchor). Each of the 5 light boats is manned
by one crew member who watches out for signs of fish gathering under the
lights, sucn as air bubbles from fish rising towards the light. The remain-
ing 15 of a total crew will stay on board the purse seiner for operating the
purse seine and sort and stow the catch. Two to four hours after dark the
purse seiner begins to contact the light boats to enquire as to apparent quan-
tities of fish gathering under the lights. The main boat may also move as
silently as possible near the light boats to detect and assess the size of the
fish concentrating before making a set. Each set should take about 50 to 60
minutes and 3 to 5 sets will be made when fish are found.
17.       Catch assumptions.  With a purse seine as described about (3.3) an
average catch of 2.5 to 3 tons per night can be expected by each unit, consist-
ing of about 40% dagaa, 40% luciolates, and 40% lates. An annual catch of at
least 550 tons should result from 220 fishing days.
18.       Handling the Catch.  Upon landing the catch in Kkgoma in the early
morning the dagaa will be dipped in brine for about 10 minutes and then spread
on drying racks for sundrying which normally takes two days. The racks will
be fitted with a removable plastic raincover to permit drying also during
the rainy season. The dagaa will be packed in insect resistant bags. No ice
is used on board the boats, but the lates and luciolates will be iced and
placed in a chill room pending freezing or distribution fresh to Kigoma,
Tabora, Dodoma and other towns which can be easily reached by rail. A train
leaves Kigoma each night for Dar es Salaam and will also carry frozen fish in
refrigerated containers for marketing by NCCO in Tanzania and for export.
Village Fishing Units
19.       In recent years the Government has placed particular emphasis on
the development of collective and self-help activities by means of Ujaxnaa
("familyhood") village development. At the present time there are about 20
Ujamaa villages in the two regions (Kigoma and Rukwa) along the lake. These
villages are small and are in various stages of organization in the Ujamaa
sense. The villages which are more than 50 km from Kigoma are particularly
poor and depend on fishing for the bulk of their subsistance. Although some
differences in fishing technique occur i.e.; between the use of scoop nets,
beach seines, traps etc., most fisheries along the lake shore depend on light
attraction of fish at night and the use of capture nets.
20.       Boats and Equipment.  The mission recommends a small inboard boat
utilizing an encircling net (lampara, small purse seine, chiromila or similar)
to extend the range of village fishermen, open up new inshore grounds where
beach seines can not operate, and increase overall catch. It will be necessary



ANNEX 2
Page 6
to provide lake transportation for the dried fish produced by the village
fishermen. The boat recommended is a smaller version of the FAO designed
V-bottom boat, (Appendix 1) with dimensions of 7.9 m x 2.4 m x 1.1 m and
powered by a 10 hp inboard diesel engine. Boats of this design are ideally
suited for production by the Moanza boatyard either as finished hulls or in
the form of kits for assembly by village carpenters at the lake shore with
the assistance of the mobile fishing units. Later when boatyard facilities
on Lake Tanganyika are established the boats can be built there.
21.       The Mobile Fishing Units.  The project will provide technical assist-
ance to the GOT Department of Fisheries to train 12 staff of the Department
to form 3 mobile fishing units. Each unit will consist of a leading fisher-
man, an engine operator, a net specialist and a boat carpenter. These men
will master the technical skills necessary to demonstrate and teach villagers
how to assemble, operate and rmaintain the small boat, lights and nets required,
and operate as extension persOnnel for a variety of fishing techniques and
processing improvements.
22.       The Fishing Method.  Fish similar to the dagaa (i.e. small anchovies
and sardines) of Lake Tanganyika are caught all over the tropics in vast
numbers primarily for use as tuna bait. Therefore, the techniques of catch-
ing these fish have been widely developed and many nets and techniques are
possible. The project will recruit someone with extensive experience in
small boat tuna bait fishing to train the mobile fishing units. The style of
fishing is similar to that described for the larger purse seiners in the
previous section but very much simpler. Lights are set out, fish collect
around them, the net is set quietly and rapidly in a circle around the light,
the bottom of the net is closed and then the net is hauled and the fish
collected. The process may be repeated several times in a night. The net
recommended may be a small purse seine net using a rope closing line and a
hand operated winch similar to those now in use off Northwestern Africa, or
a tuna "bait net" similar to the Adriatic "lampara", or the chiromila net now
used in other ports of Lake Tanganyika. All these nets are satisfactory
although undoubtedly local preference for one or the other will develop.
23.       Other Fishing Methods.  Catamarans and trimarans 1/ fitted with lift
nets have been successfully used by fishermen in the Burundi waters of the
lake. Recently, the FAO project at Kigoma has had some success with this
fishing method. However, concern has been expressed that because of diffe-
rences in currents and winds along the Tanzanian shore these vessels may not
be suitable for use in Tanzanian waters during parts of the year. If these
difficulties are overcome and if this method proves to be successful this
style of fishing or other useful methods now being planned for trials by
UNDP/FAO could be included in the pilot fisheries program.
1/   These are formed by joining two or three boat hulls, and in some cases
are powered by small outboard motors.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
24.       Catch Assumptions.  Based on the lower range of present catches by
chiromila nets in Zambia a catch of 0.6t of dagaa per fishing night is assumed
as the catch of the 7.9m motor boat for the purpose of estimating catch and
revenues.
25.       Fish Processing.  The landed fishing will be dried in the same
manner as prescribed for the Kigoma Fishing operation (see para. 18).
26.       Transportation.  The 7.9 m vessel or other suitable techniques will
be introduced first to villages near Kigoma most probably those now being
assisted by the Kigoma Rural Development Project (TA-453). The production of
dried dagaa is expected to average at least 44 t of dried dagaa per boat per
year.   The volume of fish produced by the first few boats operating in the
Kigoma area can be transported by truck, but as substantial production from
additional boats becomes available another means of transporting the fish will
be required. Many of the villages along the lake are not served by any roads
and the roads to most of the other villages are very poor. In about the latter
half of the second year of the project, lighters similar to those used in the
harbor of Dar es Salaam and a lighter towing tug will be purchased. As fish
volume expands, additional tug and lighters will be acquired. The tug and
lighters will be operated by the joint venture company formed by TAFICO and
the DDC Kigoma.
Pilot Scale Trawling on Lake Victoria
27.       Fishing Grounds.  Exploratory/experimental trawling in all parts of
the Lake by the UNDP/FA0 Lake Victoria Fisheries Research Project, 1968-72,
and also by the Freshwater Fisheries Institute in Nyegezi in the Tanzania part
of the Lake, has shown that haplochromis makes up about 90% of the catch in
trawls of 19-20 mm mesh size in waters 20 m deep and deeper. Studies concluded
in 1972 indicate that standing stocks of demersal fish in Lake Victoria total
some 680,000 tons, of which about 600,000 tons is haplochromis. In the
Tanzanian part of the Lake, an area of about 12,000 square miles (half the
total Lake area), it is estimated that about 100,000 t could be harvested
annually, mainly haplochromis. Only about 20,000t/year are now caught of
this species. In order to provide adequate quantities of haplochromis for
use in the marketing study (para. 3.09) three or four 10 m boats will be
operated on a contract basis by the Nyegezi Fisheries Research Station. If
on the basis of the marketing studies a commercial development of the haplo-
chromis resource is feasible the above 10 m boats are the type recommended.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Facilities in Support of the Project
Boat-building Facilities and Capacity
28.       Materials.  Virtually all fishing craft built in Tanzania are of
wood construction. Table 1 gives information on wood suitable for boat build-
ing and available in Tanzania:
Table 1: Timber for Boat Building
Radial
Movement
Local     Scientific           Specific                            at 60-90%
Name         Name       Weight at 12% Moisture   Durability       Rel. Humidity
Muninga     Pterocarpus
angolensis           0.63             Durable           0.5%
(small)
Mkora       Afzelia
quanzensis           0.95             Durable           0.9%
(small)
Mvule       Chrophora
(Iroko)     excelsia             0.75             Durable           0.5%
(small)
These hardwoods have a wide demand for furniture making and expensive if
bought from sawmills, such as the Tabora Msitu Products Ltd. in Babora.  These
woods cost about 53-56 shillings per cubic foot in Mwanza, Kigoma and Mbegani.
Pit-sawn plaks are available in Kigoma and Mikindani (southern sea coast)
from near-by forests at appreciably lower cost, i.e. about 30-40 shillings/
cu. ft., but they must be carefully selected since some are badly sawn or
contain sapwood and other faults. Other types of timber might be suitable
for boat-building especially after pressure impregnation treatment to improve
rot resistance, but tests will have to be made to determine suitability.
The Tabora Msitu Products ltd. sawmill in Tabora has a Tanality pressure
treatment plant.  In the absence of experience with cheaper woods, Muninga
remains the main boat building material of choice in Tanzania and boat-
building cost estimates in the present Project are based on the cost of that
timber.
29.       Construction Facilities for Fishing Boats.  At present there are
four boat-building yards operational in Tanzania capable of building boats of
the sizes and types envisaged by this Project i.e. at Pangani, Mbegani and
Mikindani on the sea coast, and Mwanza on Lake Victoria. Table 2 provides
an estimate of the capacity of existing boatyards to provide vessels for
Tanzania fisheries needs.



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capacity of Existing Boatyards for building 32-ft and 40-ft Boats
Boatyard          1976       1977        1978        1979       1980       1981
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Year 5      Year 6
Additionally, all the yards
Pangani              3            5           5          5          5           5
can build a number of smaller
Mikindani            2            4           5          5          5           5
boats, including 25-28 ft
Mbegani              5            5           5          5          5           5
boats for Ujamaa villages
Mwanza            Order           5           5          5          5           5
book full                                                               on Lake Tanganyika, which
can also be assembled by
Total capacity      10           19          20         20         20          20
village carpeters with initial
50% capacity         5           10         10          10         10          10
guidance
X M
so P
M1



ANNEX 2
Page 10
30.       Planned expansion of boatyards.  A big boat-building yard has been
constructed in Musoma (Lake Victoria) but is not yet staffed. Yards are
planned for Bukoba (Lake Victoria) and Kigoma (Lake Tanganyika) but it is
not known when or whether they might become operational. Plans have been made
for expansion of facilities of the four first-named operational yards and, in
due time, for the training of boat-builders and mechanics. Woodworking
machinery, mechanical workshop equipment and the relatively small number of
skilled boat-builders and mechanics are the main limiting factors for building
capacity at present.
31.       Small Boats for Lake Tanganyika.  All major villages on Lake
Tanganyika have one or more persons engaged in building and repair of wooden
canoes and "water taxis" (35-41 ft). Taking into account the simple tools
utilized and the lack of faci'Lities, the quality of work is fairly good. The
25 foot FAD designed 7.9 m boat could be easily built as a kit and assembled
by village carptenters after a 3 to 4 weeks training course and provision of
materials, fasteners and hand tools. Such boats could be beached in case of
hard on-shore winds, but would normally be kept at moorings off the villages.
32.       Larger Vessels.  The only existing facilities for construction and
maintenance of medium and large size steel boats are the shipyard in Dar es
Salaam and the East Africa Harbours Marine Workshop in Kigoma; however, the
latter yard is mainly occupied with repairs of the present fleet of lake
transport boats. Completed boats can be transported by rail from Dar es
Salaam but the maximum size allowable is 15 m x 3.6 m x 2.9 m.
33.       Vessel Procurement Guidelines.  Two principal factors to adhere to
in the procurement of boats are: (i) standardization of engines to ease and
ensure spare parts supply as well as training of mechanics and (ii) standardi-
zation of hull design wherever possible and series-building methods in each
yard, allowing specialization of craftsmen and thus reducing the need for
master boat-builders.
34.       Twine and Net Making Facilities.  There are two netmaking plants
in Tanzania and at present they satisfy the demand for most of the countries
needs for twine and netting for fishing, as well as for some other uses. The
parastatal Tanzania Fishnet In,lustries Ltd. in Dar es Salaam has 17 net making
looms (AMITA) suitable for knitting nets of a great range of mesh sizes and
twine thicknesses, from 8-10 mn dagaa nets of 210/3 den. nylon twine to large
meshed shark nets of 210/60 den. nylon twine, double-knot stretching machine
(lengthwise) and one set of pu:Llers for transverse knot stretching. Nylon
yarn is imported and twisted in the plant into twines and lines. However,
some twine is imported. The pLant has a recently installed melting and
extrusion line (Marubeni) for producing polyethylene filaments from granules
high-density pe. imported from Japan (Asahi Chemicals "SUNTEC" grade S360) in
25 kg bags. The extruder came with 4 spinarettes with 108 holes each, of
different hole sizes, but so far the plant has mainly produced filaments of
380 denier polyethylene which are twisted into twines, lines and ropes of up
to 8 mm diameter. No polyethylene netting has been produced to date, and it
could not be ascertained whether trawl netting of pe. could be produced in



ANNEX 2
Page 11
the one loom used for knitting sharknets. There is ample space in the plant
building for additional looms for making pe. trawl netting which should be
single knot. The plant works 3 shifts, 24 hours/day and there are plans for
expansion after 2 years to meet future demand. Only a small part of the
production is exported. The other netting plant is the Mfwanza Fishnet
Manufacturers Ltd., Mwanza, a joint venture with Harata Spinning Co. Ltd., of
Japan. The annual production of netting, twine and ropes is 180 t. This
plant has 25 looms as well as twine twisting machines, but no pe. production.
However, the (Japanese) Director stated that a loom could be added for produc-
ing pe. trawl netting. Both plants are well equipped for producing nylon
netting for purse seines for Lake Tanganyika.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
V-Bottom Boats
1.        The purpose of this Annex is to depict two V-bottom fishing boats
that are relatively simple to build and can be utilized in inshore and
coastal fisheries in the Project, the two hulls depicted, pages 3 and 4,
show the 9.0 m and 7.6 m boats discussed in the text. The V-bottom boats
presented will be comparable to round bottom hulls in seakindliness and
speed.
2.        The simplicity of V-bottom construction with sheet plywood has
been demonstrated all over the world by amateur boat builders with little
previous experience who, nevertheless, have produced thousands of serviceable
boats. The designs are mainly intended for the use of existing small-scale
boatbuilding enterprises in developing countries where suitable wood
materials are available, but the number of skilled boatbuilders limited.
The main features of the designs are:
Mi)  construction method can be adapted to available local
materials. The basic method of construction is such
that either plywood or solid wood can be used for planking;
(ii) material scantlings are standardized to facilitate supply.
As far as possible the number of different dimensions of
timber used in the boats has been kept to a minimum, and
dimensions correspond to common commercial sizes;
(iii) the lines of the boats need not be lofted (drawn up in
full size on the floor to obtain the correct shape of
frames). The shape of the boat is given by main frames
spaced 1.2 m (4 ft) apart and these can easily be drawn in
full size from the measurements given in the drawings of
the frame dimensions;
(iv)  the construction procedure and the building jig are the
same for all boats. Change from one size of boat to another
will not present problems since the basic construction method
is the same. Evidently a change from an outboard-powered
boat to an inboard-powered one will increase the complexity
of construction due to installation requirements of the
engine and the stern gear;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
(v) boards of uniform width are utilized for planking. One of the
most time-consuming and difficult jobs for an unskilled boat-
builder is planking in the conventional way with planks that
are narrower at the ends than in the middle. Each plank has
to be sawn and planned to shape resulting in wastate of time
and materials. The designs shown in this paper utilize either
plywood or planks of equal width, just as they come from the
planner:
(vi) the designs are adapted for low-powered engines. Unless the
boat is to be utilized for trawling, there is no need, from
either an economic or technical point of view, to select an
engine bigger than that recommended in the general arrange-
ment drawqings. There has been a trend toward over-powering
of small fishing vessels in many countries which cannot be
justified on economic grounds. The designs shown have a
sharp forebody and moderate width of transom which will make
easily driven with low-powered engines:
(vii) the boats can be produced in kits for local assembly. The
materials can be planned and cut to size and the main frames
and stern timbers prepared in a central workshop to be
distributed and assembled in fishing villages with the use
of simple hand tools and by unskilled labor.
SOURCE: FAO: F11M/T134: V-Bottom Boats, July 1974



0     0.5      1             2              3_m
O    1  2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  lO F,s
Shun x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                       I    I            I    I
Shown with kW
forper Giomet r    ,Ater
nx.O530 mm (21in)     I                 2                 3                4                 5                 6
Fuel tonk                                                                                                                                                     ,tf     
__________                       ____________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Longitudwina planked bottorm
____ ___  3____                                                                                                                                         MAIN PARTICULARS
Length over all         9.00 m   (29 ft 6 in)
_________                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boam  aver all  2.75 m   (9ft Omin
Depth moulded           1.15 m   ( 3  t 9.n)
Weight empty approx.    2000 kg  (4400 lb)
Line and net hauler                               Propulsion :  inboord dieel engine 8- 30 Shp
recommended power   10-12 Bhp
Sieenng positbon                          eoblscin
Steerig P9.o m  Inboard powered boat
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
Scole              Boat No   D, Na
Design  .   f     VBB-5  |
Rome, Novemer     VBB5           I
OQ la
w xL



0     05       .0           2.0            3.0 Mer
0    1  2   3   4    5   6   7   8           9   tCFee
W L ~ ~ ~                                          4
Shown witPt keel
fbr propollr diomewr1 
mox 420 mm (16 in)     I                 2                 3                4                 5
SECTION AT STATION 3
Fuel tonk                                                                                                                                            Diagonal plonked botap b
MAIN PARTICULARS
Length over Qll         7.60  m   (25 ft 0 in
t  ES =|   1?->   =Oc Z f                   <                                           Beaom  over all         2.42 m   I 6 ft O in)
_____                                                  __                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Depth moulded  1.10o m   ( 3 ft ?in)
ice  x       __  _                                                                    Weight empty opprox.    1500 kg  (3300 lb)
I  _   __  _        ___                                                                                     Propulsion    inboord diesel engine 5-25 Bhp
recrommendeod power   6-8  bhp
A         7.60 m Inboard powered boot
Seat, for                                                                                                           l)    GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
helmsmen                                                                                                                         Scale              Boot No.   Orwg. No.
NtV   Design 10BB4 
Rome, November 1973 VBB-4 
I,1 P.>
1x 
Hwt@



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Tanzaniai Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO)
1.        The Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) was established by the
Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (Establishment) Order 1974. The Government's
objective in establishing TAFICO was to ensure more effective direction and
coordination of the commercial development of fisheries and fisheries related
industries in Tanzania.
Functions
2.        The Act indicates that the functions of TAFICO will be as follows:
1)   to constitute the national body directing the commercial
growth of the fisheries, both marine and freshwater, of
Tanzania.
2)   to support and encourage the establishment of improvement
of all allied or ancillary industries.
3)   to sponsor and encourage both national and joint ventures
in the improvement and expansion of the country's fishing
industry.
4)   to formulate or examine proposals for all aspects of
commercial fisheries development.
5)   to establish priorities for proposed commercially oriented
projects and determine the degree, natural and source of
assistance which each may receive.
6)   to promote the use of modern, proved fishing techniques
with a resultant increase in fish production.
7)   to promote and improve internal and external marketing
and distribution systems.
8)   to promote interest and participation of all involved
fishery enterprises in improved and hygienic methods of
holding and preserving dish and fish-products.
9)   to direct all commeicial fisheries development, including
boatbuilding, net making and its distribution, and all
industries allied with fisheries and act as the coordinating
and administrative focus.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
10)   to purchase power units, specialized equipment and fishing
materials, as it deems necessary, either on its own record
or through agencies selected by it.
11)   to control the disbursement of such funds as may be made
available to it from Government and other sources.
12)   to undertake, where necessary, fishing or other operations
upon a commercial basis.
13)   to undertake, or enter into any agreement calculated to
facilitate its functions and activities and to the ultimate
good of the fishing industry in particular and the country
in general.
Operation
3.        The Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) will become the focal
point of all matters pertaining to the development of commercial fisheries
with such exception as these prerogatives still retained by the Division
of Fisheries. The deliberations of the Board of Directors of the Corpora-
tion will be guided by a Chairman supported by his advisers in
Planning and Management, Finance and Administration, Personnel and Procure-
ment.
4.        This body will direct overall policy and coordination of all its
subsidiaries; formulate and examine development programmes, including joint
ventures; negotiate bilateral and multilateral agreements and all other
pertinent matters. The subsidiaries, in turn, will implement policy decisions;
prepare future programming and supervise individual production units.
5.        In particular the Corporation will assume the responsibility of
meeting the Government boatbuilding and net making programmes. The former
it will do through the establishment of the National Boatbuilding Corpora-
tion and the latter by a similar body incorporating the two existing factories
and their distributor.
6.        As far as possible, therefore, the production of fishing vessels
and fishing gear will be coordinated in a national policy determined from a
single source, TAFICO. In this manner it will be possible to ensure the
best flow of boats and nets from local sources to the fishing industry.
7.        Fishing operations by subsidiary companies will require assistance
and some supervision to operate at their most economic level. TAFICO will
provide this. It will furnish the technical operational guidance from a
reservoir of consultant and advisory services, share to some extent the
administrative liabilities and provide a central purchasing agency. This



ANNEX 3
Page 3
last will involve itself in the necessary procedures not only concerning
individual development and their servicing, but also standardizing and
stockpiling of equipment. The same service, will also be available to the
boatbuilding, net making and other industries allied to fisheries.
8.        Handling, processing, distribution and marketing of fish and fish
by-products is a major concern of TAFICO.
Funds and Resources of TAFICO
9.        TAFICO's funds and resources include:
(a) sums provided by Parliament either by grants or by loan;
(b)  loans granted to TAFICO by the Government or any other
person;
(c) any sum or property which accrues to TAFICO as a result
of the performance of its functions; and
(d) any monies raised by cess imposed by TAFICO.
Reports, Accounts and Audit   -
10.       The Order which establishes TAFICO requires the Board of Directors
to file an annual report on its operations with the Minister of Natural
Resources within six months following the end of its financial year.  TAFICO
is also required by the Order to keep proper books and accounts and to prepare
annual balance sheets and income and expenditure accounts which should be
audited by the Tanzania Audit Corporation and sent with the audit report of
the Minister within six months of the annual audit. The Minister is required
to lay the accounts and audit report before the National Assembly as soon
as practicable after the receipt thereof.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Fisheries Corporation Income Statement
For the 11 months ended May 31, 1975
(Tsh'000)
Sales                                                          1,598
less:  Purchases                               112
Materials                                98
Commission on sales                      26           236
Other Income                                                   1,362
14
less:  Expenses
Salaries and wages                      309
Travel                                   50
Repairs and maintenance                 115
Petrol and oil                          158
Office expenses                         152
Ice and plastic bags                     52
Insurance                               115
Fees                                     12
Other expenses                           15           978
Net Income                                                       398
August 11, 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 2
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Fisheries Corporation Balance Sheet
As At Max 31, 1975
(Tsh'0OO)
Land and Buildings                                                482
Machinery and tools                                                24
Furniture and equipment                                            93
Vehicles                                                          259
Boats                                                              30
Debtors                                                         1,268
Cash                                                            2,395
Total Assets                                                  4,551
less:  Creditors                                   307
Branch a/c                                  432            739
Net assets represented by:                                      3,812
Government Grant                               3,414
Net Income                                       398          3,812
August 11, 1975



AhSNEX I
Table3
,              _w         ,                                ,
0   Si la 0  D                        ,   W   _~~~~'0   4
C,              OjON      4,                           4,  N
M    _       I4 D O    ',                 I,  4 , 
D              N>4 ID0                     lii         4, ,   .I '
,              _.Nc~      a                            4,  a
_,> r               - SN tI >  4,
a              4,4,4       4,                           a Z,   .   
> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N                    0' -,               N , 
N                     4, W ,                   4  , ,   4,  -N  W
O ~ ~    ~ ~        Na        a _0) N,,4 NN_
S           Na                  5>..   40. | I       
04 _  N                                          Ni O,a-NN
O    r , N  O (N            A          
\0~~~~~~~  0
14       s XD ta   N              . a  I .   '  N                               0
4D ~ ~~~ ~                  ~ ~~~~~~~ ;  1)N-)4I.4



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
1.        As in most developing countries, training is one of the critical
factors in effecting development. Present and up-coming activities in
fisheries training in Tanzania are mainly the following:
(i) a two-year Diploma Course for fisheries officers and
extension workers ,onducted at the Kunduchi Training
Institute. This is a general briefing on subjects ranging
from marine biologny to fish processing and marketing. The
students spend 3 months each year in the field. Twenty
entrants are accepted each year of which 16-17 graduate.
The hostel has 43 beds. Due, among other things, to poor
fishing grounds near Kunduchi, training in practical fishing
is limited. However gear construction, including rigging
of trawl nets is taught.
(ii) With NORAD assistance a vocational training centre will
soon become operational at Mbegani (near Bagamoyo) and will
offer the following courses:
(a) Marine Diesel Mechanics
This course is meant to train mechanics who will be
maintaing marine diesel vessels.  It will be a 3-year
course.  The candidates will be form IV or Std. VII
leavers who have some 3 years experience in jobs
related to the course.  They will be required to know
adequate English. The course is scheduled to start in
1976. Candidates will have obtain sponsorship from
Fisheries Division, TAFICO, DDC etc. Successful candi-
dates will then be sitting for a State Trade Certificate
Grade I test.
(b)  Inshore Fishermen
Local fishermern will be taught the various techniques
in running and handling the modern boats/engines, in
laying a course on a chart operating various types of
gear and a little navigation i.e. reading the compass.
The candidates are expected to come from various ujamaa
fishing villages. The course will cover 4-6 months and
will possibly start in June this year. This course will
be conducted in Swahili.



ANNEX 4
P age 2
(c) Wooden Boat Builders
This will be a 3-year course meant to train wooden
boat builders. The trainees are expected to be form IV
or Std. VII leavers who can speak and write English and
preferably those with some experience in carpentry works.
Along side with this course, short term course of 6 to 9
months will be given to polish or improve the present
wooden boat builders. Trainees will come from the existing
boatyards in the country. Candidates who will pass the
State Trade Test will be given Grade I Certificates.
(d) General Mechanics and Fitters
This is to be a 3-year course to form IV or Std. VII
leavers with some 3 years experience in activities related
with mechanics should read and write English. Such candi-
dates will have to be sponsored by Fisheries Division,
TAFICO and DDC. Successful candidates will be sitting for
State Trade Test Grade I.
(e) Ferrocement Boat Builders
This course is meant to train people in constructing
ferrocement boats of lengths ranging from 30-40 ft.
It will be a 3-year course to form IV or Std. VII with
some experience in wooden boat building, general
mechanics and mason. They should read and write English.
The successful candidates will have to sit for a State
Trade Test which will qualify them into Grade I.
(f) Marine Electricians
A 3-year course with the aims of training electricians
to service and maintain Marine vessels/engines. The
course will be to form IV and Std. VII leavers with at
least 3 years experience in electrical works for auto-
electricians with the same experience. Candidates will
sit for a State Trade Test and obtain Grade I.
(g) Shippers and Mates
Form IV leavers with at least 3 years experience at sea
will be taken. The mates will undergo a 1-year course
and the shippers 3 years and 6 months divided into 1 year
theory, two years practical and the last 6 months for theory.
(h) Marine Engineers
A course of 2 years duration to form IV leavers with at
least 3 years experience in marine work shops or diesel
mechanics grade I. The candidates must have passed in
English, Mathematics and Physics.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Mi)  Gear Technolcf
This course dill be given to form IV leavers who have
a substantial time - at least 3 years - in activities
related to fisheries, preferably in gear construction or
repairs. It will be a 3-year course. The Grades for
successful candidates will be decided upon in due course.
(j)  Refrigeration Mechanics
It will be a 3-year course for form IV leavers with
2-years practical experience in refrigeration firms or
general mechanics and should have had credit passes in
Physics, Mathematics and English. The first two years
will consist of theory and practicals and the last year
for practical3 only.
(k) Refrigeration Engineers
This will be a 3-year course for form IV and VI leavers
who have had at least 2 years experience in refrigeration
firms or general mechanics and should have credit passes
in Physics, Mathematics and the English. The first two
years will be theoretical training with some practicals
and the last year will be purely for practicals.
(1) Blacksmiths
This will be a 3-year course for fomr IV or Std. VII
leavers with at least 3 years appropriate experience.
They will have to be able to read and write English.
Candidates will have to be sponsored by Fisheries Division,
TAFICO, or DDC's. Successful candidates will be sitting
for State Trade Test Grade I.
Note:     A.   The ferrocement boats to be constructed at
the yard will be meant for:
(i) training in constructing such boats (quite
a new technology in Tanzania).
(ii) training local fishermen in the handling
and care of such mechanized craft.
(Lii) exploratory fishing and gear trials along
the Tanzania coast - the date and informa-
tion will assist TAFICO and other fishing
companies operating on a commercial basis.
The statistics obtained will also aid in
stock assessment work.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
B.   In choosing suitable candidates for each course,
the Board responsible will have to be flexible
in considering some of the qualifications required
from the candidates.
2.        In addition to the above courses, the Fisheries Division has agreed
to add crash courses for fishing boat mechanics and also for small boat skippers
to man the project boats of 32 ft. and 40 ft. The emphasis is to be on the
essentials and will be over 75% of sea and workshop training. Apart from
their primary tasks, skippers will learn about engine limitations and mecha-
nics will learn about gear construction and care of the catch. These crash
courses should admit men with considerable fishing experience. Scholastic
entrance requirements must take this into account.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHEIIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
General
1.        The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was created by the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank Act, 1971 with the following objectives:
(a) to provide medium and long-term finance for rural development; (b) to
provide technical assistance and advice for promoting rural development;
(c) to administer such special funds as may from time to time be placed at
its disposal; (d) to finance the purchase of agricultural inputs; and (e) to
undertake such other activities as may be necessary or advantageous for
furthering the foregoing objectives. IDA approved the creation of TRDB through
an amending agreement (April 28, 1971).
2.        Several rural credit measures had been adopted by Government before
the TRDB Act was passed. Among them were measures authorizing the establish-
ment of the Land Bank of Tanganyika (1974-1961), the Agricultural Credit Agency
(1962-1964), and the National Development Credit Agency (1964-1971).
3.        TRDB inherited some assets and liabilities as well as certain opera-
tions from the National Development Credit Agency (NDCA), including IDA
credits 80-TA (US$5 million, general agricultural credit) and 217-TA (US$6
million, flue cured tobacco). Bad debts worth about Tsh 31 million (US$4,350,00t
were not transferred to TRDB. Nearly all of NDCA's staff were absorbed into
TRDB and most of them retained their previous assignments.
Organization and Management
4.        The management of TRDB is vested in a Board of Directors, including
a chairman and managing director appointed by the President of the Republic,
and eight other directors appointed by the Minister of Finance and chosen from
among persons with knowledge and experience of economic and financial matters,
rural development, agriculture, small scale industries, ujamaa villages or
cooperatives. The General Manager, who is appointed by the Minister of Finance
for a term of five years, manages the Bank through its five Departments and
various committees (Chart 1). TRDB has its head office in Dar-es-Salaam and
20 regional offices.
5.        There are four Departments:  Development, Finance, Administration
and Operations. The regional offices represent the Bank at the regional level
and provide technical assistance in project development and implementation.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
6.        The regional offices are generally manned by a Regional Representa-
tive (R.R.) and a Credit Supervisor. While the R.R. is concerned primarily
with development work, including provision of technical guidance, it is diffi-
cult for one credit supervisor to attend effectively to his various tasks,
particularly the collection of Bank loans (para 15). TRDB should consider
augmenting the number of credit supervisors, as appropriate, so that one
credit supervisor does not have more than 15 to 20 societies under his charge.
In 1974 TRDB recruited 18 additional credit supervisors who were posted to
regional offices after a three-week orientation training course.
7.        There is also a need to augment the staff in the Operations Depart-
ment at Head Office to deal with loan proposals expeditiously (para. 12).
Resources
8.        TRDB has an authorized capital of Tsh 300 million, divided into
300 equal shares, the Government being the sole shareholder. As on June 30,
1975, its paid-up capital stood at Tsh 150 million. General reserves
amounted to over Tsh 5 million. Other TRDB resources comprised IDA and other
international project funds aggregating over Tsh 300 million (authorized to
TRDB) of which Tsh 106 millionx has been disbursed up to that date, short-term
deposits of about Tsh 2 million, Government grants other than its contribution
to the share capital of about Tsh 23 million, and Ujamaa village bonds of
Tsh 10 million.
Loan Policy and Procedure
9.        TRDB makes short-term loans up to one year, medium-term loans up to
five years and long-term loans up to 15 years. Eligible borrowers comprise
cooperative unions and societies, district development corporations, ujamaa
villages and registered associations, corporations and individuals, and any
other borrower falling within the scope of any agreement under which TRDB
secures its loans by either a first mortgage on movable property or value
security at 75% of the appraised value of the property. Short-term loans are
generally made at 8-1/2% interest p.a., while medium and long-term loans
carry interest at 7-1/2% p.a. There is also an application fee of Tsh 5
to Tsh 500 depending upon the loan amount. The Bank does not undertake any
foreign exchange risks.
10.       Upon receipt of a loan proposal from an eligible borrower, the re-
gional representative of TRDB makes a preliminary appraisal following a visit
to the project area and submits the proposal with his report to the Regional
Advisory Committee (RAC) for consideration. The proposal with the RAC's
recommendations is then sent to the Head Office of TRDB for consideration.
After the proposal is reviewed as to its technical and economic feasibility,
the management/loan committee considers it for approval.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
t1.       In accordance with Bank policy, TRDB's Board recently delegated
limited authority, subject to review, to the RACs (since designated as Regiona'
Loan Committees) to sanction loan proposals up to a maximum ceiling of
Tsh 50,000 per project per borrower. At Head Office, the management (Chair-
man and Managing Director) considers loan proposals for new projects for
amounts of Tsh 50,000 to Tsh 500,000 and up to Tsh one million for on-going
projects, while all loan proposals exceeding the above amounts are considered
by TRDB's Loan Committee, consisting of one Director, the Chairman and the
Bank's Secretary.
Loan Operations
12.       As of June 30, 1975, TRDB had on hand 87 loan proposals for amounts
totalling Tsh 78 million awaiting consideration. The following table shows
the development and diversilication of TRDB's loan operations since 1972:
1972      1973       1974   1975
--------- Tsh million   ----
Seasonal inputs                      21.0      62.0       85.9   171.5
Crop establishment                    0.9      24.5       12.8     0.5
Rural transportation                  6.6       8.6       30.4    23.2
Farm machinery                        1.0       2.0        1.3     4.1
Storage                               5.3       1.9        0.4     0.2
Commercial ventures                  0.5          -        2.7     0.9
Fisheries project                       -       0.9        1.3     1.1
Livestock                             0.5       7.8       25.8    42.9
Total                          35.8      107.6      160.6   244.4
During the four-year period, loans for development of agriculture accounted
for 65% of all loans approved by TRDB.  Further, consistent with the nation's
long-term aim for rural deve:Lopment through the creation of cooperative
agriculture, agricultural loans through cooperatives were in the order of
Tsh 142 million out of the total loans of Tsh 244 million approved by TRDB
as of June 30, 1975.
Overdue Loans
14.       The accumulation of overdues has been a constant feature of TRDB's
operations over the last four years and as of June 30, 1975, these amounted
to Tsh 46.2 million (principal) and Tsh 6.9 million (interest) and formed
about 18% and 63% of Tsh 259 million (principal) and Tsh 11 million (interest),
respectively outstanding and due on that date. If arrear loans are considered
in relation to the amounts which fall due for recovery during the period
ended on June 30 each year, the overdue percentages would be much higher.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
15.       While a portion of the Bank's overdues can be attributed to the
country's drought conditions during 1973, the main reason for this continuing
feature is TRDB's weak machinery for supervision (credit supervisors) over
the utilization of loans, follow-up project implementation, recovery drive
during harvest seasons and prompt action - legal or otherwise - against
willful defau'Lters (para. 6).
16.       TRDB has no system for an age-analysis classification of its
arrears. The Dairy Development Project provided for the appointment of a
consultant on a short-term basis, to examine the arrears, to determine their
realizability or otherwise and to set up a system whereby TRDB would be
able to find out periodically the age-analysis of its arrears.
Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
17.       TRDB is at present making an ad hoc provision of 1% of new loans
disbursed each year towards bad and doubtful debts. On the basis of the
agewise classification of the arrear loans to be worked out by the consultant
(para 16), TRDB should be able to judge the adequacy of the provision and
consider the need for increasing it.
Interest Rate
18.       TRDB pays interest on loans from Government, including loans under
IDA and other international credits, at 3-1/2% to 4% p.a.  On short-term
deposits it pays 5% interest p.a., while the rate is 7% p.a. on National Bank
of Commerce overdrafts. On the special ujamaa village bonds, the interest
rate is 3% p.a. TRDB charges 8-1/2% interest p.a. on its short-term loans
and 7-1/2% p.a. on medium and long-term loans. TRDB's interest spread is
generally 5%. Interest rates of TRDB compare favorably with those charged
by the National Bank of Commerce (normal 8% p.a.) on working capital loans
and the Tanzania Investment Bank (7-1/2% to 9-1/2%) on term loans.
Accounts and Audit
19.       TRDB has adopted a mechanized accounting system.  Audit of its
accounts was performed by the Tanzania Audit Corporation which has not
completed the audit for the year ending June 30, 1975. TRDB would be
required to submit to IDA its audited annual accounts not later than six
months after the close of its financial year.
Financial Position
20.       TRDB's net profit increased from Tsh 152,000 in 1972 to Tsh 372,000
in 1973, to Tsh 946,000 in 1974 and to 1.7 million in 1975. The increase is
due to a steep increase in the Bank's lending operations, the outstandings
of which increased from Tsh 92 million in 1972 to Tsh 115 million in 1973,
to Tsh 154 million in 1974 and to Tsh 270 million in 1975. TRDB's net



ANNEX 5
Page 5
earnings were, however, affected by an increase in arrear interest which as
of June 30, 1975 amounted to about Tsh 7 million. Further, as against Tsh 53
million arrear loans as of June 30, 1975, TRDB's provision for bad and
doubtful debts stood at Tsh 12.5 million (Tables 1 and 2).
Project Participation
21.       TRDB would act as the credit channel for financing fishing centers -
and Ujamaa fishing units. The Bank would receive Project funds from Govern-
ment at 4% interest for a term of 20 years with a five year grace period.
TRDB would onlend the funds at 8-1/2% interest p.a. for a term of ten years
with a two year grace period, in accordance with investment plans submitted
for TRDB's approval.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Comparative Balance Sheets as at June 30, 1972 thru 1975
(Tsh'000)
1972        1973         1974         1975
Assets
Loans (less Provision for Bad Debts)       79,036      106,289    140,755        271,124
Sundry Debtors                              2,440        3,932      16,674        40,152
Cash and Banks                             11,628       32,259      57,766        16,148
Fixed Assets                                1,025        1,269       1,588         2,098
Total Assets                            94,129      143,749    216,783        329,522
======  =-=_==      =_5=            S=
Liabilities
(a)  Current                               20,955       32,267      22,343        33,669
(b)  Medium and Long-term                  33,348       51,184      78,257       140,203
Issued Share Capital                       38,000       57,711    113,211        150,000
General Reserve                              1,674       2,215       2,026         3,958
-Profit                                         152          372        946         1,692
94,129     143,749    216,783        329,522
Authorized Capital = Tsh 300 million
August 18, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 2
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tainzania Rural Development Bank
Comparative Profit and Loss Accounts for the Years Ended June 30, 1972 thru
1972           1973           1974           19
Income
Loan Interest Received           4,671           6,683          7,587         12,8
Other Income                        287            366            781          1,1
Total                         4,958           7,049          8,368         14,0
Expenditure
Cost of Funds                    1,669           2,319          2,150          2,1
Personnel                        1,271           1,903          2,139          2,6
Other Staff Cost                    795          1,111          1,399          1,7:
Occupancy                           285            500            584            5;
Administration                      330            501            755          1,8:
Bad Debts                           317              4             -           2,9.
Depreciation                        139            339            395            5S
Profit for the Year                 152            372            946          1,62
4,958          7,049          8,368         14,0'
August 18, 1975



TANZAXNIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRDB Project Cnsh Flow
(T8h'000)
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11   Year 12   Year 13   Y"r 14   Year 15-20
CASH INFLOW
Loan prepayment
Coastal Centers - Interest           -          -          -     209        386        530       433       336        240        144          64        16
Principal         -          -          -     378        756      1,134    1,134      1,134      1,134     1,134          756       378         -         -            _
Kigoma Center   - Interest           -          -          -   1,039       880         720      560        400        240        80           -         -          -         -            -
Principal         -          -          -   1,881      1,881      1,881    1,881      1,881      1,881     1,881           -         -          -         -            -
Lake Transport  - Interest           -          -          -     167        186        146       114        81         49         16          -         -          -         -            -
Principal         -          -          -     382        382        382       382       382        382        382          -         -          -         -            -
Ujamaa Villages - Interest           -          -          -     150        430        660       840     1,130        910       670          460       280        140        30           -
Principal         -          _          -     280        840      1,400    1,960      2,800      2,800     2,800        2,520    1,960       1,400       840           -
Loan from Goveinment                5,595      10.50   10,167   5,591        5.457          -        -         -          -          -            -        -          -         -            -
Total Casb Inflow                   5,595      10,530   10,167  10,077    11,198        6,853    7,304      8,144      7,636     7,107        3,800    2,634       1.540       870
CASH OUTFLOW
Loans to:
Coastal Centers                    873       1,825      2,308  1,435        483          -        -          -         -          -            -        -          -         -
Kigoma Center                    3,034       4,540      4,474     -          -
Lake Transport                       99        994        214    994        214
Ujamaa Villages                  1.580       3.160      3.160  3.160      4.740
Sub-total                        5,586      10,519    1O,156  5,589       5,437          -        -          -         -          -           -         -          -         -            _
Loan repayment to Government
Interest                             -          -          _      _       1,440      1,450    1,350      1,250      1,150      1,050         950       850        750       650         1,800
Principal                            -          -          _      _       2.500      2.500    2.500      2.500      2.500     2.500        2,500    2,500       2,500    2.500         15.000
Total Cash Outflow                  5,586      10,519    10,156  5,589       9,377      3,950    3,850      3,750      3,650      3,550       3,450    3,350       3,250    3,150         16,800
CASH SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                      9         11         11  4,488      1,821      2,903    3,454       4,394     3,986      3,557          350     (716)    (1,710)  (2,280)       (16,800)
CUNMLATIVE CASH SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)           9         20         31  4,519      6,340       9,243   12,697    17,091    21,077    24,634        24,984   24,268      22,558   20,278          3,478
December 15, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table I
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost PhasinR
(Tsh'000)
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Total
I.  Coastal Fisheries
Boats - Hull                           473         1,462        2,079        1,656         529         6,199
Engine, etc.                  251           748        1,033          799          251        3,082
Machinery & equipment                  146           161          178           -           '            485
Buildings                              302           349          397           -           -          1,048
Working Capital                         38           175          449          454         317         1,433
Sub-total                            1,210         2,895        4,136        2,909       1,097        12,247
II.  Lake Tanganyika
Kigoma Center
Boats - Hull                         1,545         2,685        5,096           -           -          9,327
Engine, etc.                  49:2          818        1,491            -           -          2,801
Machinery & equipment                  434         1,375          933           -           -          2,742
Buildings                            1,569         1,853           -            _                      3,422
Working Capital                        176           422          405           -            -         1,003
Sub-total                           4,217          7,153        7,925           -           -         19,295
Lake Transport
Tugs and barges                         88         1,269          332        1,514         393         3,596
Working Capital                         45,          208            12          269          16           550
Sub-total                              133         1,477          344        1,783         409         4,146
U amaa Villages
Boats                                1,640         3,784        4,296        4,877       8,184        22,781
Machinery & equipment                  377           832          919           996      1,668         4,792
Working Capital                        191           443          503           573         965         2.675
Sub-total                            2,208         5,059        5,718        6,446      10,817        30,248
III.  Technical Assistance
Marketing & pollution studies        2,629         2,976            -            -           -          5,605
Support staff salaries               4,402         4,859        4,814        5,258       4,092         23,425
Housing vehicles, etc.               1,946           559          628           729         792         4,654
Sub-total                            8,977         8,394        5,442        5,987       4,884         33 684
Total Project Cost                  16,745        24,978       23,565        17,125      17,207        99,620
December 16, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Categories
(Tsh'000)
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4     Year 5        Total
Boats                                   3,659         7,931      11,471        6,533       8,713        38,307
Engines                                   743         1,566       2,524          799         251        5,883
Machinery & Equipment                   1,045         3,637       2,362        2,510       2,061        11,615
Buildings                               1,871         2,202         397           -           -         4,470
Working Capital                           450         1,248       1,369        1,296       1,298         5,661
Marketing & Pollution Studies           2,629         2,976          -            -           -         5,605
Technical Assistance
Staff Salaries                        4,402        4,859        4,814        5,258      4,092        23,425
Housing, vehicles, etc.               1.946           559         628          729         792        4,654
Total                                  16,745        24,978      23,565       17,125      17,207        99,620
December 16, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Fishing Center - Investment Model
(Tsh'000)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3                    Foreign   Exchange
No.      Tsh   No.        Tsh   No.       Tsh      Total         %        Amount
Boats 1/                  3       615    5      1,025    2         410      2,050        50         1,025
Cold Storage              1        20             -                            20        20             4
Workshop & Equipment    1           50             -                           50        70            35
Office/Store              1         22            -                            22        40             9
Manager's House           1       105              _                          105        40            42
Vehicle - 4 wheel drive 1           78            -                            78        85            66
Other fish terminal
facilities 2/                   105             -                 -         105        40            42
Working capital 3/                  32              95             158        285        40           114
Total                         1,027           1,120              568      2,715        49         1,337
1/ Cost per boat:  Hull         132,000
Engine       47,000
Deckgear    10,000
Trawls       16,00 
Total Tsh  205,000
2/ Fencing, receiving platform, paving, etc.
3/ 20% of operating expenses.
December 15, 1975



FISHELRIES DEVELOrtesi rrw-
Coastal Fishing Center   Profit 6 LOSS Statemt
(T000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11-20
Sales per boat
Shrimps 12.5 tons @ Tsh 12                      90.0       150.0      150.0    150.0      150.0       150.0     150.0      150.0      150.0         150.0
Table fish
10 tons @ Tsh 7                              42.0        70.0      70.0      70.0       70.0       70.0       70.0       70.0      70.0          70.0
15 tons @ Tah 3                              27.0        45.0      45.0      45.0      45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0      45.0          45.0
Other 37.5 tons @ Tsh 1                         22.5        37.5       37.5     37.5       37.5        37.5      37.5       37.5       37.5          37.5
Total Sales per Boat                            181.5      302.5      302.5    302.5      302.5       302.5     302.5      302.5      302.5         302.5
Operating costs per boat
Fuel and oil                                    48.0        48.0       48.0     48.0       48.0        48.0      48.0       48.0       48.0          48.0
Skipper & crew salary                           68.0        68.0       68.0     68.0       68.0        68.0      68.0       68.0       68.0          68.0
Maintenance                                      15.0       15.0       15.0     15.0       15 0        15.0      15.0       15.0       15.0          15.0
Depreciation                                     26.0       26.0       26.0     26.0       26.0        26.0      26.0       26.0       26.0          26.0
Insurance                                       12.0        12.0       12.0     12.0       12.0        12.0      12.0       12.0       12.0          12.0
Ice                                              6.0         6.0        6.0      6.0        6.0         6.0       6.0        6.0        6.0           6.0
Crew Food                                        4.0         4.0        4.0      4.0        4.0         4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0           4.0
Other                                             6.0        6.0        6.0      6.0        6.0         6.0       6.0        6.0        6.0           6.0
Total Operating Cost ber boat                  185.0       185.0      185.0    185.0      185.0       185.0     185.0      185.0      185.0         185.0
Profit per boat                                     (3.5)     117.5      117.5    117.5      117.5       117.5      117.5     117.5      117.5         117.5
Number of boats operating:
First year of operation 1/                        3          5          2       -          -           -         -          -          -             _
Second year of operation                         -           3          8       10         10          10        10         10         10            10
Boat operating profit per center                   (10.5)     335.0      933.0  1,175.0   1,175.0    1,175.0   1,175.0   1,175.0  1,175.0            1,175.0
Shore based operating costs 2/            143.0   143.0       143.0      143.0    143.0      143.0       143.0      143.0     143.0      143.0         143.0
Depreciation                            43.0    43.0        43.0       43.0     43.0       43.0        43.0      43.0       43.0       43.0          43.0
Interest on overdraft                    6.0    12.0                            -          -           -         -          -          -
Interest on loan 3/                     37.0   116.0       184.0      209.0    177.0      144.0       112.0      80.0       48.0       16.0          -
Total                                  229.0   314.0       370.0      395.0    363.0      330.0       29e.0      266.0     234.0      202.0         186.0
Net Profit per Center                    (229.0) (324.5)       (35.0)    538.0    812.0      845.0       877.0      909.0     941.0      973.0         989.0
Tax on profits                              -       -          -          -       305.0      338.0       351.0      364.0     376.0      389.0         396.0
1/  During the first year of operation, it is assumed that a boat would achieve 607. only of normal catch.
2!  Shore based operating costs:  Salaries - manager                          30,000
mechanic                       30,000
laborers (5)                  30,000
general maintenance, etc.    53,000
Total                      143,000
3/ @ 8.5% p.a. repayable over 10 years including 3 years grace period for both interest and principal.
4/  Tax @ 40/ after allowing for prior years losses.
December 16, 1975



ANNEX 6
Toblo S
O  N    ~    ~                           N        N                ONN           N    0 rl0 o        iON
*        01    N             N         ONN        N       C)   N    rV
_            ON       N             I)       NN            r o     
_          N       Nl              I I       C n     N  0t    N                                    0
_          N      N ON    -                              =l   4  C0
*       NN            N             N        NN    Nx         C        NO7 NN



1ANltUS.t1L 
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lake Tanganyika - Kigoma Fishing Center Investmen Cost
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3                 Foreign  Exchange
No.      Tsh   No.       Tsh   No.       Tsh    Total         %      Amount
Boats 1/                    2      1,728    3       2,592   5      4,320    8,640        50      4,320
Cold storage - Buildings             893              840            -       1,733       40        693
Machinery                             720            687    1,407        85      1,196
Workshops & Equipment                162                              -        162       65        105
Office/Store                         315               79            -         394       40        158
Vehicles - 3 trucks                  110              220             -        330       85        280
Drying Racks                         110              165             -        275       85        235
Other fish terminal
facilities 2/                      105              420            -         525      40         210
Working capital 3/                   147              305            257       709       40        284
Total                            3,570            5,341          5,264   14,175       53       7,481
1/  Cost per boat:  Hull & deck machinery  437,200
Engine                   93,700
Light boats             157,600                                                          a M
Nets                    175,500
Total                 864,000
2/ Fencing, receiving platform, paving, etc.
3/ 20% of operating expenses.
December 15, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lake Tanganyika - Kigoma Fishing Center Profit & Loss Statement
(Tsh'000)
Year I      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8       Year 9      Year 10       Year 11-20
Sales per boat:
Dagaa 220 tons @ Tsh 1.50                     -          198          330        330         330          330         330         330          330          330            330
Lucio Lates 220 tons @ Tsh 1.50               -         198           330        330         330          330         330         330         330           330            330
Lates 110 tons @ Tsh 3.50                     -          231          385        385         385          385         385         385         385           385            385
Total sales per boat                          -          627        1,045      1,045       1,045       1,045        1,045       1,045       1 045         1,045          1,045
Operating Costs per boat:
Wages                                         -          196          196        196          196         196         196         196          196          196            196
Boat repairs                                  -           53           53         53           53          53          53          53           53           "I             53
Cear r>i-                                                 32          j2          32           32          32          32          32           32           32             32
Insurance                                     -          42            42         42          42          42           42          42          42            42            42
Fuel and oil                                  -           45           45         45          45           45          45          45           45           45             45
Kerosene                                      -           11           11         11           11          11          11           11          11           11             11
Miscellaneous                                 -           21           21         21           21          21          21          21           21           21             21
Depreciation                                  -          131          131        131          131         131         131         131          131          131            131
Total per boat                                -          531          531        531          531         531         531         531          531          531            531
Profit per boat                                   -          96          514        514          514         514         514         514          514          514            514
Number of boats operating:
First year of operation 1/                    -            2            3          5            -           -           -            -           -            -              -
Second year of operation                      -           -             2          5           10          10          10          10           10           10             10
Boat operating profit for center                  -         192        1,316      3,050        5,140       5,140       5,140       5 140        5,140        5,140          5,140
Shore based operating costs
Salaries & wages                               315       635          635        635         635          635         635         635         635           635           635
Fuel oil and coolent                            33        65           65         65           65          65          65          65           65           65             65
Maintenance - Machinery                        130       202          265        265          265         265         265         265          265          265            265
Buildings                       35        75            75         75          75          75           75          75          75            75            75
Vehicle running cost                            40       110          110        110          110         110         110         110          110          110            110
Depreciation - Machinery                        88       210          240        240          240         240         240         240          240          240            240
Buildings                      77       160          160         160         160         160         160          160         160          160            160
Electricity                                    160       330          330        330          330         330         330         330          330          330            330
Interest on over draft                          30        60           -          20           -           -           -           -            -            -              -
Interest 2/                                    129      456           864      1,039         880          720         560         400          240           80             -
Total center operating costs                1,037    2,303          2.744      2,939       2,760        2,600       2,440       2,280        2.120        1,960          1,880
Net Profit                                     (1,037)  (2,111)       (1,428)        111       2,380       2,540       2,700       2,860        3,020        3,180          3,260
Tax on profits 3/                                  -         -            -           -           -          182       1,080       1,144        1,208        1,272          1,304
1/  During the first year of operation, it is assumed that a boat would achieve 60. only of normai catch.
2/  Interest on 10-year loan from TRDB 8.5% p.a. including 3 years grace period, for both interest and principal.
3/ Tax 407% after allowing for prior years losses.



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lake TanganYika - Kia... Fishing Center Cash Flaw
(Tsh 000)
Year 1    Y-O  2    Year 3    Y-u  4    Year 5    Yea  6    Y-a  7    Y-a  8    Year 9    Year 16    Yar )I   Y-a  12   Yea  13   Year 14   Yea  15   Year 16   Year 17   Y-s  18   Yea  19)  Ve-  70
CASH INFLOW
Jofnrv-ot-rooaPina1 1/                536         801        790            -                     --                     -          -          ----                                          -------
TRIM  loan                          3,034       4.540      4,474            -           -         -                      -          -           ----                                          -------
Nct profit before intarent            (743)    (1,023)       491         2,860      4,970    4,970         4,970    4,970        4,970      4,970        4,970      4,970       4,970    4.970        4,970       4,970      4,970      4,970        4,970      4.970
and depreciation
oral Yank inflow                    2,027       4.3180     3,733         2,860      4,970    4,970         4,910    4,970        4,970      4,970        4.970      4,970      4,970    4,970         4.970       4,970      4,970    4.970          4,970      4,970
CASH OUTFLOW
CaFital i....stsaen                 3,570       5,341      1,244                  -          -                 -         -          -           -           -                -          -           -           -                -         -            -           -
CapItal  -eFlao-nn                      -          -           -          1350        635    1,093            350       713      1,267      1,040        1,963      3,545       3,435    0,432        1,063         632       1,105     1,095          350        (914)
TEDB Io...    tret             - i-t1,t039                                             000       720         560        400        240         80           -           -          -         -            -          -           -         -            -           -
pinnlFal                 -                      -         0,81       1,901      1,001       1,990     1,181       1,081      1,001           -           -          -                      -                      ---                                -
To... on pro'fito                       -          -                                -   -         -           182    1.000       1.144      1.208        1,272      1.304       1.304     1.304l      1.304       1.304      1.304 -1.304            1.304      1.30
Tota1 Cobb Outflow                  3,570       5,341      5,244         3.270      3,396      3,696       2,973    4,004        4.332      4.309        3,259      4,849      4,739      2,736       2,367       1,936      2,409    2,399          1.654        (319)
S17RPLUS/(DEFVYIT)                       (743)    11,023)       491          (410)      1,574     1,274       1,997        896        438         791       0,711         121        231    2,234         2,603      3,034       2,561    2,371         3.316      5,289
Dootrsbuiod o- follows:
TAFico 604                              -          -     -                              -        698       1,198        538        263        437        1,027          73        139    1,340           992      1,020      1,237      1,343        1,990      3,173
DDY 4077                                                                               -         469         799        358        175        304          684         40          92       094       1,041       1,214      1,024      1,028       1,326       2.116
Debr servi- .o..  age                                                            1.0        1.0       1.0          1.8       1.7         1.0        1.9
1L/ 15-  of foolonerena 1L
Der-ber 10. 1973



ANNEX 6
Table 9
TANZANIA
FISE ERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lake Transport Facilities - Investment Cost
(Tsh r000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
Vehicles (1 truck)         78          -                    -                    78
Tugs (2)                   -          776        -         776        -       1,552
Barges (4)                 -          244       244        244       244        976
Woiking Capital            38         150          8       150         8        354
Total                  116       1,170        252      1,170       252      2,960
December 15, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELWPMENT PROJECT
Lake Tanganyika - Lake Transport Facilities - Profit & Loss Statement
(Tsh'000)
Year I     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6       Year 7     Year 8      Year 9      Year 10       Year 11-20
Mark-up on Ujamaa Sales                -          405       1,485       2,835       4,185      5,940        6,750       6,750       6,750        6,750         6,750
Operating Costs 1/                    193         977         992       1,758       1,754      1,754        1,754       1,754       1,754       1,754          1,754
Net profit before interest &
depreciation                   (193)      (572)         493       1,077      2,431       4,186       4,996       4,996       4,996        4,996          4,996
Interest on long-term loan              4          51         104         167         186        146          114          81         49           16             -
Depreciation                           20         110         122         212         204        204          204         204         204         204            204
Net profit before tax             (217)       (733)        267         698       2,041      3,836        4,678      4,711       4,743        4,776          4,792
Tax on profits                         -           -            -           6         816      1,534        1,871       1,884       1,897       1,910          1,917
1/  Including interest on bank overdraft.
December 16, 1975



TANZAHtl I
FISHERIES  DMVLOHMNHT PROJECT
take Tanoseyika  Lake T-eoseot Cash F1oe
(T. Jo0)
er1  Year 2    Y-a  3    Near 4    Ylee  ',        Ya  6    Yea  7    Year 6    Year 9    Year 10   Yea  HI   Year 12   Ye-  13   Year 14   Year 15   Year 16   Year 17   Ye-  18   Yea  19   Ye.- 20
CASH INFLOW6
Net profit befo.e in"teret &          (193)      (37?)       493         1,077    2.431        4 I9         -.~.   o6           .. 6         4,996    4,996        4,996      4,996        4,996    4.996        4,996       4.996    4,996         4,996       4.996
Loan froo TRDB 1/                       99        994         214          994       214          --                                -            -         -          -           -           -         -           -            -         -            --
Joi.t yent.re ropita l 2/               17        176          38          176        38                                                                                                                                                                  
t-ra  Oank TofIl-.                     (77))      598         745        2.247    2.683       4,186        4,996    4,996       4.996        4,996    4,996        4,996      4.996        4,996    4,996       4.996        4,996    4,996         4,996      4.996
CAH CUITFLOW
Capital iov-e,et 3/116                          1,170         252        1,170        252         -           -          -          -            -         -          -           -           -         -           -                      -            -        (354)
T6DB to.. - Intbro-t                    -           -          -           167        186        146         114         Hi         49           46        --                                 ------
PrIncpIpa                                                    360       382         362         362        362        382          382        -          ---                                           -----
CapitL1 replacem-t                      -          -                        -                     -           --                    -            -         -         776                     776        -           -            --                     -        (136)
Ta-o  cc P-oit. 4/                                 -           --                       6        816       1.534     1.671       1.664       1.697    1.910        1.937      1.917        1.917    1.917        1.917       1.917      1.917        1.917      1.917
Total t-h Ootfl..                      116      1,170         232        1,719        626      1,344       2,030    2,334        2.315       2,295    1,910        2,693      1,917        2,693    1,917        1,917       1,917      1.917       1,917       1,467
CASH SUIlPLUS/(DEYICIT)                  (193)       (372)       493           526    1,957       2,642        2,966     2,662      2,661        2,701    3,066       2,303       3.079       2,363    3.079        3.079        3,679     3.079        3,679      3,589
Distributed so f.11oo-
TArICD 60Y                              -    -           -                  154    1.114       1.705       1,761      1,5937     1,669       1,621    1,652        1,362      1,647        1,362    1,947        1,647       1,647      1.647        1,847      2.153
912bOT                                  -           -                      102        743      1,137       1,166    1,065        1,307       3,590    7,234          921      1.232          923     1,233       1.232       1,232    1.252         1.232       1.436
Debt sericecoerg                                                                 1.9       3.6         5.0         6.3       6.7         7.2          2.6
I/  At 6.53, pa. rep.yableve  10 yea-  i-cladle6 a 3 year grac  perid for bctk (sEtaret ..ad princIpal.
2/  157. of caital icoesteh-t ilncldic- .rktc6 capital.
3/  One crock T.b 70,000, tee tige at Teb 700,000 each and 4 b-nge  at Tah 226,000 .--b.
4/  MR of Oct ito-..
De.ee b-r 10, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lake Tanganyika - Ujamaa Program Investment Cost
(Tsh'000)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5              Foreign  Exchange
No.    Tsh   No.    Tsh   No.    Tsh   No.    Tsh   No.    Tsh   Total          x      Amount
Boats           10      850   20   1,700   20   1,700   20   1,700   30   2,550   8,500        50        4,250
Net                     530        1,060         1,060         1,060        1,590   5,300      50        2,650
Racks                   220          440           440           440          660   2,200      85        1,870
Miscellaneous           105           210          210           210           315   1,050      40         420
Working Capital         160           320          320           320           480   1,600      40         640
Total              1,865        3,730         3,730         3,730        5,595  18,650      52        9,830
December 15, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lake Tan%anyika - Uiamaa Program Profit and Loss Statement Model
(Tsh'000)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6       Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 10       Year 11-20
Sales 1/                                81         135        135         135         135        135           135         135         135          135            135
Operating costs 2/                      78          78         78          78          78          78           78         78           78           78             78
Net profit before interest &          3          57        57          57          57         .57           57          57          57           57              57
depreciation
Interest on loan                         7          14         15          15          13          10            8           6           4            1              -
Depreciation 3/                         20          20         20          20          20          20           20          20          20           20             20
Net profit before tax               (24)         23         22          22         24          27           29          31           33           36             37
Tax on profits 4/                        -           -          8           9          10          11           12          12          13           14             15
1/  During the first year of operaticn it is assumed that a boat would achieve 60% only of normal catch.
2/  Operating costs per boat = (Tsh'000)
Labor            35
Fuel & oil       10
Bags              7
Maintenance      16
Miscellaneous   10
Total         78
31 Depreciation based on alife per boat of 12 years and an average life for nets of 3 to 5 years.
4/ @ 407 of net profit.
December 12, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPM8NT PROJECT
Lase Tanganyika - tiausa Program Cash Flow Model
(Tsh'000)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8      Year 9      Year 10      Year 11-20
CASH INFLOW
Net profit before interest &
depreciation                             3         57          57         57            57        57          57           57         57           57             57
Loan from TRDB 1/                        158          -           -         -             -         -           -            -          -            -               _
Ujama capital contribution 2/             28          -           -         -             -         -           -            -          -            -
Total Cash Inflow                        189          57          57         57            57       57          57           57         57           57              57
CASH OUTFLOW
Capital investment                       186          -           -         -              -        -           -            -          -            -               -
Debt service: intereat                    -           -           -          15            13       10           8            6          4            1             -
principal                  -          -           -          28            28        28          28           28         28           28
Capital replacement                       -           -           27        -              -        27          -            -          27           -               18
Tax on profits                            -           -           -          8              9       10          11            12        12            13             14
Total Cash Outflow                       186          -           27        51            50        75          47           46         71           42              32
CASH SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                        3          57          30          6             7       (18)         10           11        (14)          15             25
Debt Service Coverage                                                            1.1           1.1       1.2         1.2          1.3        1.4          1.5
1/ @ 8.5% p.a. repayable over 10 years including 3 years grace period for both interest and principal.
2/ 15% of capital investment including working capital.
December 10, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(Tsh'000)
Year 1         Year 2          Year 3          Year 4           Year 5
No.      Tsh   No.       Tsh   No.       Tsh   No.       Tsh   No.       Tsh   Total
Support Staff for:
TAFICO                     1        455    1        455    1        455    1        455             -      1,820
Dept. of Fisheries         1        455    1        455    1        455    1        455             -      1,820
Coastal Fishing Centers   2         660    2        660    2        660    2        660    2        660   3,300
Lake Tanganyika
Fishing Center          4      1,320    4      1,320    4      1,320    4     1,320    4       1,320   6,600
Mobile Units            1        330    1        330             -               _               -       660
(i)                  4       110    4        110    4        110    4        110    4        110      550
(ii)                 4       110    4        110    4        110    4        110    4        110      550
(iii)                4       110    4        110    4        110    4        110    4        110      550
Housing                        7       745              -               -                                       745
Vehicles                       5       400              -               -                -                      400
Operating & Other Costs                380             380             380             380             380   1,900
Physical Contingency 10%               500             390             370             370             270   1,900
Total                             5,575           4,320           3,970           3,970           2,960  20,795  
D m  >1
December 15. 197.5



ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(Tsh'000)
Disbursements
Quarterly             Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End
1975/76
September
December
March 1/
June 2/
1976/77
September
December                                 300                    300
March                                    400                    700
June                                     500                  1,200
1977/78
September                                700                  1,900
December                                 700                  2,600
March                                    800                  3,400
June                                     800                  4,200
1978/79
September                                700                  4,900
December                                 500                  5,400
March                                    500                  5,900
June                                     500                  6,400
1979/80
September                                400                  6,800
December                                 400                  7,200
March                                    300                  7,500
June                                     300                  7,800
1980/81
September                                300                  8,100
December                                 300                  8,400
March                                    300                  8,700
June                                     300                  9,000
1/ Estimated date of board approval
2/ Estimated date of credit effectiveness.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation
I.   (i)  Technical Assistance:  TAFICO and MNR have prepared preliminary
job descriptions (JD) and Terms of Reference (TOR) for technical assistance
personnel and have requested Treasury to forward them to bilateral aid agen-
cies (Sept. 1975); TAFICO and MNR will forward the JD, and TOR to IDA for
comment by the end of March 1976, and it is expected that recruiting would be
completed by September 1976. Iit is likely that MNR and TAFICO will obtain
these personnel by recruiting them directly.
(ii) The legal steps t:o form the various joint venture companies
proposed between TAFICO and local entities have been under negotiation for
some time. It is expected that the legal entities required for Project imple-
mentation will be established by July 1976.
(iii) Investment plans for the Kigoma joint venture corporation
and for a coastal joint venture corporation are being prepared by TAFICO
and TRDB and will be submitted to IDA by September 1976.
(iv) TAFICO will prepare a plan for providing housing and
support vehicles for the technical assistance staff by July 1976.
(v) TRDB, MNR, and the office of the Regional Development Director
are preparing investment plans for the first three ujamaa Fishing Village
units on Lake Tanganyika. Two villages near Kigoma, Kibrizi, and Mtanga
have been selected and a third is under consideration. The investment plans
for these villages will be submil:ted to IDA for comment by September, 1976.
(vi) MNR which will be responsible for the Ujamaa Village fisheries
training program has prepared a preliminary plan for the organization and
deployment of three or four mobile fishing units (MFU) (extension units) to
be assigned to the Kigoma area. Selection of staff will commence by April
of 1976 and be completed by July 1976. The staff will be assigned by Septem-
ber 1976. Initially the MFU will be temporarily assigned to the ongoing
UNDP/FAO Fisheries Development Program at Kigoma in order to permit their
early organization and training as well as to provide additional assistance
to the UNDP/FAO unit in assisting in the program of artisanal fisheries
development.
II.   (i)  MNR has prepared draft terms of reference for the fish market-
ing study and will submit these plans to IDA by September 1976.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(ii) MNR will in consultation with the University of Dar es Salaam
prepare draft TOR for the pollution study to be carried out in the Tanzanian
portion of Lake Tanganyika and will submit these plans to IDA for comment
by December 1976.
(iii)   Implementation of the investment plans for Kigoma, the
Ujamaa villages, and for one coastal center will begin by December 1976.



00   N~N                                     N           - 
8.          0|  n         .O 2g 8 <             ||    R      g _
00 N _                _      _      0   I     
o o    N0N4                0 o                 O      N      4
.            $   0 -0  NONO   0                 II    00   0   N   C
P0   N    ____                                      0   N
c.                0  0   N N       0  -        , ,  0    0 4   .
0.0  0                 00   ____    N0                               N   00
00                       00    000    0                I I   N
N~ ~~~ 0                                _. _0  __N   0                0      0        0 
;t          O O. CwO 1-    o                                               01
.     0   s  0080            a 8.        0    CCC   0   s.  s 
P. N8C ____                          0                0  0r
0l00              004 1  88        A   00.>        A
g>NC.               ___                          0 k   o
O~~ ~ ~                           c    N > s
-      08.   0n   w                                                     0.h   
CO         NO       ___         o                            0 NO



ANNEX 10
Page 1
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rates of return were calculated on the basis of data
presented in Annex 6. Key assumptions and adjustments made were:
(a)  project life is 20 years;
(b)  all project operating and investment costs were included
in the rate of return calculations with the following
exception;
(i) the market research work and that part of technical
assistance costs directed towards preparation of
future projects;
(c)  foreign exchange costs were valued at the rate of Tsh 10
US$1.00 to reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange;
(d)  fish production was valued at prices paid to the producer;
(e)  the shadow rate for unskilled labor was assumed to be
Tsh 2,000 per annum which is approximately equivalent to
the value of subsistence production which might be foregone;
all other labor was valued at prevailing wage rates, which
reflect the economic cost of labor;
(f)  prices of investment and operating cost items and outputs
in real terms, would remain at December, 1975 price levels.
2.        Based on these assumptions the rates of return were calculated to be:
Total project                        27%
Coastal project                      22%
Kigoma project                       28%
(including lake transport facilities)
Ujamaa project                       30%
3.        The sensitivity of these rates of return was tested under several
unfavorable assumptions.  The results of this analysis are presented in
Table 5.



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Rate of Return
(Tsh'000)
Shadow Rating Adjustments
Capital         Operating          Technical                                              Foreign
Year         Costs            Costs           Assistance         Benefits          Labor             Exchange
1           6,196             1,819             2,275                 810           (358)              1,117
2          11,476             6,237             2,675              5,174          (1,256)              2,142
3          11,351            10,550             2,975             13,486          (2,392)              2;341
4           6,793            16,466             2,875             24,708          (3,940)              2,133
J            7,135           19,915             2,675             34,138          (4,792)              2,301
6           2,143            20,233               450             38,723          (4,912)              1,418
7           1,938            20,233               150             39,775          (4,960)              1,290
8           1,554            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,302
9           2,691            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,377
10          3,098            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,372
11          3,675            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,684
12          6,676            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              2,240
13          7,448            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              2,124
14          5,680            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,850
15          4,236            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,888
16          4,218            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,287
17          4,903            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,317
18          2,472            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,308
19          2,032            20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)              1,213
20          (3,899)          20,233               -               39,775          (4,960)                943
Economic Rate of Return 27%
December 16, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Coastal Fishing Center
(Tsh'000)
Shadow Rating Adjustments
Capital        Operating          Technical                                              Foreign
Year          Costs           Costs           Assistance         Benefits          Labor             Exchange
1               995             143               400                 -             (20)                179
2            1,025              620               400               545             (92)                200
3               410           1,415               300             1,815            (140)                204
4                48           1,733               300             2,783            (212)                177
5               158           1,733               150             3,025            (260)                 173
6                32           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                113
7                48           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                137
8               221           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                143
9               345           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                123
10              142           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                160
11              661           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                 181
12              742           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                138
13              410           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                137
14               80           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                143
15              173           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                123
16              283           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                122
17              252           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                118
18               32           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                113
19               48           1,733                -              3,025            (260)                115
20             (235)          1,733                -  f           3,025            (260)                 51
Economic Rate of Return 22%
Financial Rate of Return 23%
December 16, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Kigoma Fishing Center including Lake Transport Facilities 1/
(Tsh'000)
Shadow Rating Adjustments
Capital         Operating          Technical                                               Foreign
Year           Costs            Costs           Assistance          Benefits         Labor              Exchange
1              3,423              713              1,100                                ( t60)             655
2              5,036            2,217              1,100             1,254             (360)               920
3              5,007            3,480              1,100             3,971             (900)             1.002
4                350            5,480              1.100             8,J60          (1,800)                462
5                63             5,480              1,100            10,450          (1,800)                496
6              1,095            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                346
7                350            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                258
8                713            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                300
9              1,267            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                365
10             1,040            5,480                _              10,450          (1,800)                337
11             1,987            5,480                _              10,450          (1,800)                433
12             3,545            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                633
13             3,435            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                703
14             1,432            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                304
15             1,063            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                342
16               632            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                290
17             1,105            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                345
18             1,095            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                346
19               350            5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                258
20              (914)           5,480                -              10,450          (1,800)                132
Economic Rate of Return 28%
Financial Rate of Return 26%                                                                                       m
1/ Lake Transport facilities costs and benefits are shown in Table 3a.
December 16, 1975



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Lake Transport Facilities
(Tsh'000)
Shadow Rating Adjustments
Capital          Operating                                               Foreign
Year           Costs             Costs             Benefits          Labor             Exchange
1                78               183                 -               (50)                 35
2             1,020               917                 405            (100)                295
3               244               992               1,485            (100)                104
4             1,020             1,758               2,835            (100)                335
5               244             1,754               4,185            (100)                144
6               _               1,754               5,940            (100)                 91
7               -               1,754               6,750            (100)                 91
8               _               1,754               6,750            (100)                 91
9               _               1,754               6,750            (100)                 91
10              _               1,754               6,750            (100)                 91
11              _               1,754               6,750            (100)                 91
12             776              1,754               6,750            (100)                254
13              _               1,754               6,750             (100)                91
14             776              1,754               6,750             (100)               254
15              _               1,754               6,750            (100)                 91
16              -               1,754               6,750             (100)                91
17              _               1,754               6,750             (100)                91
18              _               1,754               6,750             (100)                91
19              _               1,754               6,750             (100)                91
20            (156)             1,754               6,750            (100)                 14
December 16, 1975
0



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Ujainmaa Program
(Tsh'OO0)
Shadow Rating Adjustments
Capital        Operating          Technical                                           Foreign
Year             Costs            Costs          Assistance         Benefits         Labor           Exchange
1               1,700                 780             775               810            (228)           248
2               3,400               2,340             775             2,970            (684)           548
3                3,670              3,900             775             5,670          (1,140)           652
4                3,940              5,460             775             8,370          (1,596)           755
5               5,640               7,800             775            11,880          (2,280)         1,107
6                  810              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
7               1,350               7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
8                  540              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
9                  810              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
10               1,350              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
11                 540              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           696
12                 810              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           874
13               2,200              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           874
14               2,240              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           874
15               2,510              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)         1,052
16               3,050              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
17               3,090              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
18                 810              7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
19              1,350               7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
20              (1,590)             7,800              -             13,500          (2,280)           518
Economic Rate of Return 30%
Financial Rate of Return 24%
m X
December 16, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 5
TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
Base 1/   Benefits   CapitalCbsts   Operating Costs
Rate       -10%          +10%             +10%
Project                          27          21            25               24
Coastal Center                   22          16            19              18
Kigoma Center including
Lake Transport Facilities      28          23            27               26
Ujamaa Program                   30          22            26               25
December 16, 1975
1/ Base rate includes 10% Physical Contingency.



TANZANIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Project Coordination                          Ministry of                                  Market Study
Committee                                     Natural Resources                            and Investigation
District Development                          Tanzania Fisheries                          Regional Fisheries                                 TRDB
Corporation                                   Corporation                                 Extension Services 
Marine Joint                                  Kigoma Joint                                                        Ujamaa Villages
Venture Companies                            Venture Company                                                      Fishtng Units



1                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD) 1l795-
_ a, : t: ; -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST fr>3
U C A    DA l               -97-
k-.- /9 ~K E N Y                                                                     A             f A" C A
RWAND< jA 
1   f C00; .,\ <   ,~~~~~~~~~G.
010c            ~~~~~~~MOSHI
< 3 ~~~~~T A  g  0_  A                                           j   }/>5  Z 
Is\                           I MllS                                                                     4 K-/ AJA C
j -8 < + gwo / 1 $ <5 / <7D3g9~~~~~~~~AAM
ZAIRE ;e9                d                                                                   ol         Oceon
ZAMBIA              To                 M    k     m    o o}                (                   Nmuuu  zKNe
TANZANIA               -iu       Tk damhp ng                                              \
FISHERIES  DEVELOPMEN   ri                                                       L     Nb  LI  I\2\a
PROJECT:                         bt,    _,       igor      t,                J   L         r   
4PI  f,,,p-sd   ViXlP.g   Fish   rR A-r><       mooP    h
OTHER F PATIRRES;                                                                              oSno5 /_5
Rrr;no ... Idre Offhz M.in R-ad:  Y{b'\f
--- ltE nt IPB1    (3Rsrt,onl Htdwtr     aMALAWI    .               --
0 5Gsoorse_2G sS 5'0KhOErEs ':r  rM OZ AM B iQU E
1O       5       ro     tW5hlrs         /(         -   :  5        



