FtIE                  1                      Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1880-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUTBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 18, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at November 1, 1975)
Tanzania Sh    =    US$0.12
US$1.00        =    T Sh 8.05
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at
a fixed rate of 9.66 T Sh to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is there-
fore subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to T Sh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
TRDB     =  Tanzania Rural Development Bank
DDC      =  District Development Corporation
TAFICO   =  Tanzania Fisheries Corporation
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA FOR A
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of US$9.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fisheries
Development Project. Approximately US$5.0 million of the proceeds of the
Credit would bc re'ent to the Tanzania Rural Development Barnk (TRDB) for
20 years including four years grace with interest at four percent per annum.
TRDB would onlend these funds at 8-1/2 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        Although it has been sometime since the last full economic and
updating reports on Tanzania were finalized in May and December 1972,
respectively, considerable staff economic work has been accomplished on the
country since that time. An agricultural sector report was issued in
December 1974. The report of an indcuary and mining mission was distr-ibuted
in April 1975 and a study of the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decen-
tralization was completed in April 1975. In March 1976, at the request of
the Government, the Bank mounted a special mission which analyzed the fiscal
implications of the Government's programs for Universal Primary Education
and Universal Rural Water Supply. The work of this mission will provide a
substantial input to the work of the basic economic mission which is scheduled
to visit Tanzania in mid-1976. Throughout the last two years or so Bank
staff have engaged in a continuous economic dialogue with the Government on
the serious balance of payments difficulties which have been encountered by
the country and the Government's policies and programs designed to close the
external gap. These policies and programs were reviewed in the Program Loan
President's Report No. P-1517a-TA, dated November 25, 1974 and in a memorandum
(M75-687) from the Secretary dated September 25, 1975. The Consultative
Group for East Africa met in April 1975 to discuss the progress and prospects
of the Tanzania economy and the need for additional resources to support the
Government's development program.
3.        The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the guiding force in Tanzania's political evolution since the 1950's.
Over the years following independence the political leadership has developed
a philosophy of egalitarian socialism which has been articulated in many
documents, most central of which is the Arusha Declaration of 1967. In
restructuring the political, economic and social life of the country the
leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching institutional
reforms. For the past decade Tanzania's social and economic policy has been
guided by three fundamental objectives: (a) the achievement of a participatory,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradication of absolute
poverty and progress toward greater income equality; and (c) more rapid
long-term economic growth with full participation of all regions and pop-
ulation groups in the development process. Reflecting this philosophy some
of the Government's most significant decisions have been in the area of
i.acomes policy. The tax structure is highly progressive and middle and
upper incomes have been restrained while lower income wages have been
increased. In the provision of social infrastructure services, poorer
areas have been favored. As a result of these and related policies, dif-
ferentials in living standards between upper and lower urban dwellers have
been narrowed and some impact has been made on urban/rural differentials
and regional disparities of income.
4.        The overriding goal is to develop a socialist economic system and
the consequence has been a series of industry nationalization measures and
proliferation of government parastatal enterprises. The state has increasingly
intervened in the price mechanism; prices of domestic factors and products
and imports are   controlled  directly  or   by such indirect methods as
import licensing. These structural changes have resulted in some imple-
mentation problems. In addition, scarce managerial manpower has been spread
very thinly, exacerbating already serious shortages of top and middle-level
staff. Some of these conflicts should be seen, however, as the inevitable
consequences of a "frontal" attack on poverty and underdeyelopment.
5.        With a per capita income of only $130 (1973), Tanzania is classified
as one of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the United Nations
(country data are provided in Annex I). Between 1968 and 1973 Tanzania's
GDP   grew  at  4.6 percent per annum.   Domestic savings averaged   17 per-
cent of GDP, while gross investment averaged 21 percent -- extremely high
rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The
growth rate of GDP was not commensurate with the magnitude of the investment
effort, however, in part because of the high proportion of investment which
was directed into infrastructure and social services projects such as the
transportation links with Zambia, because of sluggish growth in the agricul-
tural sector, and because of stagnant or declining productivity in paras-
tatal enterprises. During this period the balance of payments position of
Tanzania was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointingly slow growth
of exports (overall export volume grew at only three percent per year from
1968 to 1972 and in 1973 export volume fell back to the 1968 level). Never-
theless, because of a sharp increase in capital inflows, the overall balance
of payments was in surplus from 1971 to 1973, and there was a modest build-up
in foreign exchange reserves.   As a result of prudent financial management,
net reserves were increased to approximately $145 million by the end of 1973,
the equivalent of four months' imports.
6.        Events then occurred which resulted in a drastic change in the
overall balance of payments of Tanzania. The 1973 and 1974 rains failed in
many parts of the country necessitating substantial increases in imports of
basic food items beginning in mid-1974. The drought also affected cash
crops, leading to a further decline in the export volumes of coffee, cotton



- 3 -
and sisal. Although world prices for Tanzania's exports jumped 52 percent
in 1974, total export receipts rose only 18 percent due to drought-affected
crop yields. At this same time as a result of higher prices for imports
the total import bill for 1974 rose by 60 percent over 1973. The outcome
of these forces was a rapid depletion of net reserves to only $50 million
at the end of 1974, equivalent to only three weeks of imports. Industrial
production also stagnated in 1974, due in part to shortages of imported raw
materials and spare parts stemming from the growing foreign exchange constraint.
As a result, overall GDP may have actually declined slightly during the year
although official statistics indicate an increase of 2 percent. While pro-
duction declined, domestic deLmand increased rapidly, due to expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies, causing severe pressure on the domestic
price level. The retail price index for low income workers rose by 57 percent
in 1974 while that for middle-grade civil servants jumped 35 percent.
7.        During 1975, while the food production shortfall was substantially
reversed and inflation was reduced to around 30 percent, grain imports were
still required and the balance of payments situation remained critical. In
addition, export performance was extremely disappointing with total value of
exports declining by over 11 percent. The overall balance of payments gap for
1975 was about $140-145 million, equal to the deficit for 1974. Tanzania was
able to cover the 1975 foreign exchange gap by curtailing imports to the bare
minimum and by securing substantial program type assistance, including a $30
million Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) from the Bank and a $24.3 million drawing on
the IMF special oil facility'approved in August 1975. Tanzania's present economic
crisis cannot be attributed exclusively to drought-related crop failures and import
price escalation. The most disturbing aspect of Tanzania's economic situation
has been the declining growth rate of output from the agricultural, industrial
and mining sectors. The growth rate of agricultural output had been running
slightly behind the rate of growth of population for six years prior to the
harvest failure of 1974. Inadequate producer price incentives, inefficiencies
in the transport and distribution systems for inputs and marketed production,
and the effects of inadequately planned villagization (paragraph 21 below)
contributed to this disappointing performance. In the modern sector many
enterprises have experienced declining labor productivity which has been
attributed to lack of incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management.
Furthermore, while the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the
1960's,'it began to decline by 1973 and fell drastically to 7.5 percent in
1974 as a direct outcome of the balance of payments crisis. In addition to
the above-mentioned factors, the high level of investment which has gone into
slow-gestation social and economic infrastructure rather than into the directly
productive sectors has prevented more rapid growth of output.
8.        The Tanzanian Government in late 1974 formulated a comprehensive
program of policy actions to bring the balance of payments under control in
the medium run and to restore the growth rate of output. The principal
elements of the program included a reallocation of investment in favor of
directly productive sectors, measures to raise agricultural output, steps to
improve incentives in industry and mining and to increase the export orient-
ation of these sectors, and constraints on public and private consumption
demand.   Imports were cut through direct controls and measures were introduced



- 4 -
to slow down the rate of growth of private consumption. Indirect taxes
were raised and further increased in the 1975/176 budget. User charges
for water and electricity were also raised and an extremely restrictive
wage and salary policy has been followed. Further, the Sovernment is
making a serious effort to bring the rate of growth of public consumption
expenditures under control. The 1975/76 budget called for a level of
current expenditures below the revised estimate for 1974/75 and while this
target may not be realistic the intentions of the Government are nevertheless
clear. In addition cuts of about 7 percent in the civil service were made
in March 1976.
9.        On the production side, several steps have been taken to increase
output. The Government has raised agricultural producer prices to levels
approaching world parity and certain progressive export taxes have been
reduced or eliminated. The overall planning capability of the Ministry of
Agriculture is being strengthened and a project coordination unit to improve
implementation has been established in the Ministry. Furthermore, as a
major component of its effort to expand material production the Government
has made significant progress in reallocating public investment in favor of
the directly productive sectors of agriculture, industry and minipg.
Another problem area in which action has been undertaken is that of export
development. In October 1975, Tanzania, in conjunction with Kenya and
Uganda, devalued the shilling by approximately 14 percent. Given the
heavy reliance of the East African Community on export markets in the U.K.
and the substantial recent decline in the value of sterling, this devaluation
can be construed as an attempt at restoration of competitiveness of exports
to the U.K. and also an incentive to exporters to non-sterling markets.
The Government's progress in implementing policies and programs designed
to close the balance of payments gap in accordance with understandings
relating to the program loan was the subject of a memorandum (M75-687)
from the Secretary to the Executive Directors dated September 25, 1975
(paragraph 2 above). The most encouraging aspect of the Government's res-
ponse to the balance of payments crisis was the demonstration that Tanzania
retains the ability to push through necessary and unpopular measures over
a wide front. It is this characteristic of a "hard state", together with
the basically sound program of economic restructuring, which holds the
promise for the future.
10.       Tanzania's prospects for bringing the balance of payments deficit
under control in the medium term clearly depend upon the effectiveness of
the program of policy actions outlined above. It is not possible to determine
the time period over which all the policy measures introduced by the Tanzanian
Government will take effect. The austerity measures introduced in 1974 and
1975 have already had an impact on imports and on domestic consumption,
and the recovery of food production in 1975 has clearly helped to alleviate
the food deficit. However, the basic program of economic restructuring will
require more time before its full effects can be realized. For example,
some new investments in agriculture, industry and mining that will directly
benefit the balance of payments will take several years to come to fruition.
Thus the balance of payments will remain weak in the short run. However,
Tanzania should have a stronger economy at the end of the restructuring
process. The central focus of the assistance efforts should be, therefore,
to ensure that the balance of payments gaps arising over the next few years



- 5 -
do not prevent Tanzania from implementing a development program designed
to incorporate the required policy changes. In this connection, nego-
tiations for a proposed second program loan were recently held in Dar es
Salaam. In addition, and despite Tanzania's impressive domestic savings
performance, a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange
component of high priority projects will also be required if Tanzania is
to achieve its development targets. Financing of some local expenditures
will, therefore, be justified.
11.       In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group is
Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of China.
Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The current low overall_debt service ratio of
about 7 percent is expected to rise to about 11 percent by 1980 and remain
at about that level throughout the 1980's. Including a notional one-third
snare of tiie debt of the East African Community Corporations, the IBRD is
presently holding 13 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external debt and
IDA 10 percent- the IBPD share is expected to rise ahout ?1 nercent in the
next five years, and the IDA share to rise to about 13 percent. Debt ser-
vice payments to the Bank are about 13 percent of total debt service payments;
the corresponding share for IDA is about 3 percent. These two figures are
projected to rise to about 25 percent and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980.
The debt service ratio of Bank loans to exports is expected to rise to about
2 percent by 1980. The Bank's exposure is high because several major donors
are now making their aid available either on grant basis or very concessional
terms and because as a result of prudent debt management suppliers' credits
have been kept to a minimum. The average interest rate on loans to Tanzania
outstanding at December 31, 1974 amounted to only -274 percent and the average
term was 22 years.
East African Community
12.       The East African Community Corporations have experienced diffi-
culties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation
is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agree-
ments in existence among sovereign states in the developing world,-in practice,
the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the Partner States
is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Political developments
in the Partner States have created tension within the Community and impaired
the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties have been compounded by
the balance of payments constraints which all ti Fee Partnrer States experienced.
13.       Of the Community Corporations, the East African Railways Corpora-
tion (EARC) has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays
by the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on
the interstate transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential
spare parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has
deteriorated considerably. In July 1974, the Partner States agreed, with
Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate the
EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital. However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a



- 6 -
result disbursements under Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways
III) were suspended in February 1975. A further meeting was held
in July 1975 at which an agreement was again reached on formula
for sharing of debt service payment by the Partner States, and
suspension of the loan was lifted.
14.       The Partner States recognized that because of their
fundamental, political and economic differences, a review of the
1967 Treaty was called for. For this purpose a Commission has
been established consisting of three Cabinet level officials from
each country, with Mr. Demas, President of the Caribbear Development
Bank, as Chairman. This Commission is expected to submit its reports
by the end of 1976. While there is hope that the Commission may deal
with the structural differences in the long run, the Corporations
are still facing a difficult period.
15.       Since February 1976 the relationship between the Partner States
has further deteriorated. Arrangements for debt service payments
were again disrupted resulting in long delay in making debt service
payments to the Bank. Disbursements to the East African Railways
Corporation, the East African Harbours Corporation, the East African
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Develop-
ment Bank were suspended by the Bank on April 28, 1976. As the
Executive Directors were informed on May 25, 1976 (SecM76-383), a
mission visited East Africa in May to discuss with the Presidents
and Finance Ministers the debt service problems which endangered
both the Bank's operations in East Africa and the credit standing of
the Community and the Partner States (being jointly and severally
responsible).  An Agreement    was    reached to ensure remittances
from the Regional Offices of the Corporations to complete all overdue
payments and these were made by June 1, 1976. Disbursements on the
Community loans were, therefore, resumed with effect from June 1.
Regarding future debt service payments, the Agreement (i) specifies
fixed contributions by each Partner State to meet external debt
obligations, (ii) commits the Governments to ensure remittances
from the Regional Offices of the Corporation, (iii) establishes a
mechanism and procedure for timely payments, and (iv) provides
automatic foreign exchange cover for debt service remittances.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 23 IDA credits and nine Bank loans
amounting to $349.8 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling $244.8
million, which have been extended for the development of the common ser-
vices and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and
Uganda through their association in the East African Community. The only
IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made in
the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1969 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their
interest in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African
Community organizations as of    May 31, 1976    and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
17.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72 10 out of 14 loans
and credits made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of
the 18 Tanzania operations approved since then all but four: Urban Sites
and Services (Credit No. 495-TA), Highway Maintenance (Credit No. 507-TA
and Education IV and V (Credits No. 371-TA and 607-TA), were for directly
productive projects. These directly productive projects are supporting
both the agiculture and industrial sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated
Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA) and our first direct lending
for an industrial project (Mwanza Textiles, Loan No. 1123-TA). In addition,
a tobacco processing project and a project to support selected industries at
Morogoro are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors
in the near future. A proposed second rural development project and a water
supply project have recently been appraised in the field and negotiations for
a second program loan were recently held in Dar es Salaam (see paragraph 10
above).
18.        While it should be borne in mind that over one half of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last two fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Annex II of this report
have been greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the
scarcity of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the
understandable reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative
traditional sector to adopt new "technology" and others are undoubtedly
a reflection of the strains created in a society which is attempting a
unique traverse from one set of economic, institutional and political rules
to another. The Government has become extremely conscious of these



implementation issues and is taking steps to resolve these problems. An
earlier reluctance to recruit technical assistance for planning and imple-
mentation has been replaced by a willingness to utilize such assistance
whenever it is demonstrably necessary. A technical assistance project
designed to strengthen project preparation and implementation was recently
approved by the Executive Directors. At the request of the Government about
10 technical staff have been supplied by the Agriculture Development
Services (ADS) and a Bank staff member has recently been seconded to the
Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a longer
term attempt to alleviate the human resource constraints our lending is
expected to increasingly emphasize formal and non-formal training. Further-
more, a conscious attempt is being made to develop less complex projects.
19.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services corporations
(paras 12-15 above) have affected the Bank's lending program to the Community.
Yet while the exact form of the reorganized Community services remains to
be determined, the development of the transport and communications infra-
structure to facilitate national programs of the Partner States will
continue to be an important aspect of the development of the three countries.
We therefore anticipate a continuing role for the Bank in these sectors.
Field appraisal of a fourth Posts and Telecommunications project has been
completed and a Railways project and a EFarbours project will be ready for
appraisal in fiscal year 1977. In each instance all organizational and
guarantee questions will be resolved before conclusion of lending arrangements.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
Rural Organization
20.       In order to make the Government more responsive to rural needs
and better able to promote rural development, the administrative structure
and many of the functions of Government were decentralized to the 21 regions
and nearly 80 districts in July 1972. The regions are now primarily res-
ponsible for promoting and coordinating development programs within their
respective areas. The relevant centralized functional ministries are
responsible for providing necessary technical support. Each district and
region is expected to have its own development plan and budget and to
direct all development staff and activities within its jurisdiction. These
development efforts include the establishment of publicly owned regional
and district development corporations (DDC's) to engage in commercial
activities. Although progress has been inevitably patchy, reflecting the
local availability of the required expertise, the new structure has already
demonstrated its potential to take initiatives and to more effectively promote
development programs. It is also apparent that the lack of adequate support
from the central technical ministries, for example, in the extension services



which generally lack adequate training and logistical support, is
inhibiting the effectiveness of the regional development activities.
21.       The Arusha Declaration of 1967 identified the ujamaa village
as a means of effecting self-reliance and a community approach to develop-
ment. The Government sees villagization as the only effective way to
deliver essential economic and social services to a widely scattered
rural population. In early 1974 the Government decided to rapidly increase
the pace of villagization and it is currently estimated that about 70 per-
cent of the rural population, almost 9 million people, are now villagized.
While.production declines can be expected, almost all of the resettled
farmers were evidently able to plant their crops; indeed they were required
to do so by the Government. In some areas of the country, however, there
has been, during the 1974/75 cropping season, a substantial shift away
from cash or export crops, particularly from cotton to food crops. The
Government has also relaxed its emphasis on communal farming in the new
villages and farming on individual plots or "block farming" is the norm.
The Government is aware that inadequately planned and poorly coordinated
villagization has had a negative impact on agricultural production but the
decision was made to complete the process in as short time as possible and
the resettlement is now largely an accomplished fact. The long-term
potential of the new villages remains of course to be seen. Increased
demands for social as well as economic services may be anticipated, and
indeed are already in evidence. The Government's ability to respond to
these demands and to encourage the new vi14agLe-ceomunities to engaged in
self-help activities when the Government cannot provide the services will
be critical to the success of villagization.
Fisheries
22.       Tanzania has important fish resources in her territorial waters
of Lakes Tanganyika and Victoria. Smaller quantities are available in
various other inland lakes and swamps. In addition, the coastal waters
of the Indian Ocean are capable of greater exploitation that is presently
undertaken. Lake Tanganyika, reported to be the second deepest lake in
the world, has large relatively-unutilized stocks of fish and offers
excellent prospects for the development of these resources. Preliminary
surveys indicate a standing stock of about 2.5 million tons of which
about 30 percent could be harvested annually without detriment to the
standing stock. Only 2 percent of the standing stock is harvested today.
The main fish include 2 species of sardines (dagaa and lumbo) and three
species of nile perch and various predators. Dagaa is the most important
fish, making up more than 75 percent of the catch in both the traditional
and commercial sectors. Some 13,400 fishermen make a living of fishing
often supplemented by subsistence farming.
23.       Lake Victoria, the world's second largest lake, also appears
to have fairly large fish resource, but in contrast to Lake Tanganyika,
Lake Victoria is already heavily exploited especially in the shallow



- 10 -
waters. Preliminary data indicates that an annual sustainable yield
of about 200,000 tons may be possible while the total catch of fish
from the Lake averages only about 40,000 tons, most of which come from
the shallow waters. Any further increase in the catch would, however,
have to be restricted to waters outside those now being fished, and
before undertaking this effort, a better data base needs to be developed.
24.       The 550 mile coastline of mainland Tanzania has a narrow
continental shelf which drops off sharply after a depth of about 60
meters. The most important shell-fish is shrimp, which is found in the
more shallow waters of up to 20 meters deep.    The most important table
grade fish, caught by trawling, are red snapper and flat fish. The sus-
tainable yield appears to be higher than the present catch. However, much
research remains to be done on the future potential for marine fishing
off the coast of Tanzania.
25.       About 25 percent of total fish production comes from marine
fishing, the rest from inland lakes and fresh water resources involving
in total some 40,000 traditional fishermen and about 3,000 commercial
operators. The marine fish are generally sold fresh while inland
production is sold both fresh and sun-dried. The traditional method of
preserving fish by sun-drying on the beaches has certain shortcomings
and large quantities of fish are spoiled by rains and insect infestation.
However, the quality of dried fish can be improved by the provision of
covered drying racks and lowering the level of insect infestation. This
can result in an extension of the period for which such fish can be
preserved from one month to three months. Although fresh fish is
generally preferred, dried dagaa is consumed widely in most parts of
Tanzania and is in some places a basic staple of the diet. Fish consumption
varies greatly in Tanzania ranging from 46 kg a year per person in the
lakeshore regions to less than 1 kg in some inland regions reflecting
the fact that only about 5-10 percent of current fish production enters
commercial markets. Both the wholesale and retail fish trade are almost
entirely in the hands of private traders although some wholesaling of
fresh fish is carried out by the National Cold Chain Organization.
Unlike most other prices of consumer goods in Tanzania prices of fish
are not subject to Government control.
Development Strategy
26.       Tanzania's development strategy has given high priority to agri-
cultural development and more recently food production. As part of this
strategy, renewed attention is being given to the fisheries subsector



- 11 -
as a means of supplying badly needed protein in the diets of those
living in the rural areas. The strategy that is emerging emphasizes the
development of both the traditional and modern sectors. In an effort to
generate a relatively quick production response the establishment of a
limited number of publicly owned commercial ventures utilizing relatively
capital intensive fishing and processing techniques is being encouraged.
Meanwhile, in an attempt to establish a long term basis for the develop-
ment of the traditional fishing, various pilot programs are being estab-
lished. In order to significantly increase fish consumption the Government
also recognizes that the marketing system has to be greatly strengthened.
The Government is presently initiating studies designed to formulate the
basis for a coherent long term marketing development program.
27.       The fisheries sector is serviced by the Fisheries Division of
the Ministry of Natural Resources. This division administers an extension
service organized on a regional and district level with policy direction
and technical support provided by the Ministry. There are about 600
extension staff nominally engaged in fisheries extension and development
work but many of them lack adequate training and equipment. To support
the development of commercial fishing in Tanzania, the Tanzania Fisheries
Corporation (TAFICO) was established in 1974. TAFICO is also in charge
of boat building and net making programs and is operating several boat-
building yards. The boat building program is intended to produce appro-
priate sizes of types of sea worthy fishing boats and is linked with the
Government's policy to increase fishing production by replacing inadequate
boats. The Corporation has limited staff and resources and will require
considerable technical assistance to enable it to carry out its respon-
sibilities. Credit to fishermen is available through a number of insti-
tutions, mainly the National Bank of Commerce, Tanzania Investment Bank
and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). TRDB has been the channel
for all Bank Group supported credit operations in the rural sector. Although
arrears in loan repayments have risen faster than anticipated, it is con-
sidered to be a generally sound and well managed institution. TRDB is
presently recruiting and training additional credit supervisors in an
attempt to strengthen loan administration.
28.       A two-year Diploma course for fisheries officers and extension
workers is presently available at the Kunduchi Training Institute. The
course includes three months field work each year; total enrollment is
about 40 students. In addition, a vocational training institute, supported
by NORAD, will soon be operational at Mbegani which will provide, among
others, courses in marine diesel mechanics, fishing techniques, wooden
boat building, general mechanics and refrigeration and marine engineering.
Some on-the-job training is also provided at TAFICO boat yards. In
addition, several fisheries officers are receiving overseas training under
bilateral assistance program.



- 12 .
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.      The proposed project would support the Government's strategy for
the development of the subsector by helping to expand the capacity of the
commercial sector in the short and medium run and by helping develop a
basis for the longer term improvement of traditional fishing at the village
level. The proposed project was appraised in July 1975 and negotiations
held in Washington from February 23 to 26, 1976. The Tanzania delegation
was headed by Mr. Mutalemwa, Commissioner for External Finance, Ministry of
sn>rtnce and Planning. An appraisal report entitled Tanzania Fisheries
Development Project (Report No. 963a-TA ) dated March 8, 1976 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Credit and Project
Summary is provided as Annex III to this report.
30.       The proposed project would represent the first stage of a long-
term program to develop fisheries production in Tanzania. It would, over
five years, support the establishment and development of commercial fisheries
at selected centers, improve fishing techniques and marketing data and pro-
vide the basis for the long-term fisheries development of the traditional
sector by supporting a pilot fisheries program for ujamaa villages on Lake
Tanganyika.  Specifically, it would provide:
(a) development of three marine fishing centers and one
lake center at Kigoma;
(b) establishment of a pilot ujamaa fisheries program at
Lake Tanganyika;
(c) provision of appropriate transport facilities on Lake
Tanganyika;
(d) a study to assess the market potential for expanded pro-
duction of dried dagaa and an investigation into the
effect of chemical pollution on the life cycles of fish
in Lake Tanganyika and to examine potential catch rates
and market prospects for haplochromis from Lake Victoria; and
(e) technical services and future project preparation.
Fishing Centers
31.      The four fishing centers -- three along the coast and one on
Lake Tanganyika -- would be established in an effort to increase the size
of the catch presently achieved and to improve processing and marketing
techniques. These fishing centers would be owned and operated by joint
venture companies formed by TAFICO (paragraph 27 above) and local District
Development Corporations (DDC) (paragraph 20 above). It is expected that



- 13 -
each of the fishing centers on the coast would be provided with 10-meter
fishing boats equipped with easily maintainable engines. Qualified crews
for these boats would be recruited from the local communities and from
the training school at Mbegani (paragraph 28 above). The Lake Tanganyika
Fishing Center would be established at Kigoma. About 10 commercial boats,
improved in design compared to the ones now operating on the Lake, would
be provided at the center. Other required investments would include covered
drying racks, cold storage facilities, vehicles, equipment and building.
Uiamaa Fisheries Program
32.        About 90 percent of the total annual catch in Tanzania is produced
by 40,000 fishermen using traditional techniques. The longer term develop-
ment of this sector is therefore dependent on the articulation of programs
and techniques designed to help these fishermen. There are now at least
100 villages along the shore of Lake Tanganyika, and of these about 20 are
in various stages of ujamaa development. Most of the villagers are poor
and depend on fishing for a large part of their subsistence. Fishing
techniques vary from village to village, but most of the fishermen work
from theshore at night using canoes and some form of light to attract the
fish. Some of them are familiar with beach seines, although many do not
have the resources to purchase them. Catamarans and trimarans fitted with
lift nets have been successfully used by Burundi fishermen and recently the
UNDP/FAO supported Lake Tanganyika Research and Development Project at
Kigoma had some success with this fishing method. However, some concern has
been expressed that because of differences in currents and winds along the
Tanzania's shore these vessels may not be suitablefor Tanzania waters duriilg
parts of the year. The Research and Development Project is conducting
research into the fish resources of Lake Tanganyika and into fishing methods
and would cooperate closely with the ujamaa fisheries program.
33.        The pilot fisheries program would be first initiated in a few
villages near Kigoma, and would be gradually expanded to include about
20 ujamaa villages. Credit would be provided to each participating village
for the purchase of boats equipped with the necessary nets and other fishing
gear. The fish caught would be dried on the shore on covered drying racks
financed under the project, and then transported either by truck or over
the Lake to the railroad at Kigoma for onward distribution to other parts
of the country. This component has been designed to have considerable
flexibility both with regard to fishing techniques and village organization.
It is designed to provide increased opportunities for village fishermen to
improve catching methods, organization and market outlets. The program
build up would be carefully phased in order that the benefits of learning
by doing are maximized. It is expected that the village fishing boats would,
at least in the initial stages, be of standard FAO design and provided with
10 hp inboard engines. However, the techniques would be adjusted in the
light of experience and the results of the work of the UNDP/FAO project.
While the fishing methods proposed are relatively simple and the drying methods
are traditional, combining and managing the elements of catching, processing,
transportation and marketing may prove to be complex in the village context.



- 14 -
34.       An internationally recruited fisheries specialist would be
employed by the Ministry of Natural Resources. He would maintain close
liaison with the Kigoma UNDP/FAO Center as well, as with the training centers
at Kunduchi and Mbegani (paragraph 28 above) and would train local extension
staff. The extension workers would be organized into three mobile fishing
units, who would be responsible for advising and supporting the village
fishing units. The specialist would, in cooperation with the UNDP/FAO
project, would also be responsible for the investigation of alternative
fishing techniques for possible inclusion in the ujamaa program.
Lake Transport
35,        As many of the ujamaa villages along the shores of Lake Tanganyika
are not served by any roads becauise of the precipitious cliffs and extensive
mountains and as the roads to many others are extremely poor, the project
would include provision for necessary lake transport facilities (barges and
tugs) to allow the villages to transport dried dagaa to Kigoma. The trans-
port facilities would also be used to distribute basic supplies to these
villages and would help strengthen the presently inadequate transport
facilities.
Market Study and Investigation of Chemical Pollution
36.       No difficulty is expected in marketing the project output.   However,
project production would represent a significant proportion of the 5 to 10
percent of fish production which presently enters commercial markets.
Because of this and, in view of the value of fish as a source of protein
and given Tanzania's vast unexploited fish resources, a two-year market
study would be undertaken to assess the market prospects for increased
production of both fresh and dried fish. Terms of reference for the study
would be prepared by the Ministry of Natural Resources, and the Ministry
would ensure coordination of this work with the research work now being
carried out by the Food and Nutrition Board and the University of Dar es
Salaam. Prior to initiation of the study, the detailed proposals would
be submitted to IDA for comment (Section 3.09 draft Development Credit
Agreement). The study would concentrate on an assessment of the market
prospects for increased production of dried dagaa from Lake Tanganyika,
but it would also include a small component to examine potential catch
rates and market prospects for haplochromis from Lake Victoria.



- 15 -
37.        An increasing volume of agricultural chemicals is being used
on lands bordering Lake Tanganyika, and as the lake has no significant
outlet, concern has been voiced that unacceptable levels of these chemicals
may begin to accumulate in both the waters and the fish therein. Since DDT
is known to affect the reproductive cycle of some animals, it is possible
that fish stocks may be affected by excessive DDT levels at some time in
the future. Consequently, funds would be provided under the project for a
study to investigate the effects of increasing levels of chemical pollution
on the life cycles of fish in Lake Tanganyika. Terms of reference for the
study would be prepared by the Ministry of Natural Resources and would be
submitted to IDA for comment before award of the research contract (Section
3.09 draft Development Credit Agreement). Both the marketing and pollution
studies are expected to be carried out by Tanzanian institutions.
Technical Assistance
38.        The project would be the Government's first major comprehensive
investment in the fisheries sector. As such and in order that a sound basis
for future development of the sector can be established, there is a special
need to ensure that the project is properly managed and closely monitored.
Tanzania has had considerable experience in traditional fishing but is
largely unfamiliar with'the newer more sophisticated techniques which would
be introduced under the project. Furthermore, Tanzania's fishing insti-
tutions (paragraphs 27 and 28 above) are still in a very formative stage.
A substantial technical assistance component would therefore be included
as part of the project. Technical assistance would be provided to assist
the Ministry of Natural Resources and TAFICO in overall project planning
and coordination, to aid in the establishment of the marine and lake fishing
centers, to aid the ujamaa fishing program (paragraphs 32-36 above), and to carry
out monitoring and evaluation of project activities. Specifically, this
assistance would provide for the recruitment of nine internationally
recruited staff (40&man-years at $48,500 per man year). The Government has
already initiated contact with several countries, specifically Norway and Holland,
to provide some of these staff on a grant basis. In the absence of firm arrange-
ments support for these personnel would be included in the proposed credit.
It would be a condition of credit disbursement for each project component
that the critical technical specialists for that component had been recruited
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 4, Schedule
1, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Organization
39.        The Ministry of Natural Resources would have overall respon-
sibility for all project activities. In order to assist the Ministry with
this task, a coordinating committee would be established to provide policy
guidelines for the project. Members of the Committee would include: The
Director of Fisheries of the Ministry of Natural Resources, who would also



be designated project coordinator, the General Manager of TAFICO, the two
internationallv recruited project managers in the Ministry of Natural
Resources and TAFICO (paragraph 38 above), the General Manager of TRDB,
representatives from the Prime Minister's Office and from the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, and the relevant regional development directors. It
would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the coordinating committee
had been established (Section 4.01(b) draft Development Credit Agreement).
The fishing centers would each be managed by a joint venture company formed
by TAFICO and the relevant District Development Corporation. The Lake
transport facilities would be owned and operated by the joint venture company
to be established at Kigoma. The National Cold-Chain Organization (parag-
raph 25 above) would collect fresh fish daily from the coastal fishing
centers for distribution by truck or rail to the main markets at Tanga and
Dar es Salaam. The fish from Lake Tanganyika would be marketed by the
Kigoma joint venture company through existing channels. Fish would be
distributed to Kigoma and to Tabora, Dodoma, Dar es Salaam and other towns
which are easily reached along the line of rail. Since Kigoma joint venture
company would be the major buyer of the dagaa produced by ujamaa cooperatives,
TAFICO, as the prime joint venture partner, would exchange views with the
Association from time to time on the price paid for dagaa to the ujamaa
cooperatives. The market and pollution studies would be carried out under
the direction of the Ministry of Natural Resources by Tanzanian institutions
(paragraph 37 above).
4C.         As the pilot ujamaa program on Lake Tanganyika is experimental
it would be carefully phased and monitored. The program would be managed
by TRDB in conjunction with the regional fisheries extension service and
the Ministry of Natural Resources. TRDB would draw up a detailed program,
including the selection of villages, training of boat crews and marketing
arrangements, which would be submitted to the Association for review before
any sub loans were approved (Section 3.05 draft Development Credit Agreement).
The bertower would every six months, or more often if needed, exchange views
with the Association on the details of the ujamaa training program and on
the investigation of alternative fishing techniques (Section 3.12 draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Cost and Financing
41.        The total cost of the project, including import taxes and duties
(which are insignificant) is estimated at US$12.4 million. The foreign exchange
component would amount to US$7.0 million or 57 percent of total costs.
Details of project cost are included in Annex III. The proposed IDA credit
of S9.0 million would finance the foreign exchange component as well as
$2 million of local costs. Financing of some local costs is considered
justified for the reasons given in paragraph 10 above. The joint ventures
and ujamaa villages together would contribute about $1.2 million or 10 percent
of total costs and the Government would provide the remainder of about $2.2
million or 18 percent of total costs.



- 17 -
Onlending and Channeling of Funds
42.         Approximately $5 million of the proceeds of the credit would
be channeled by Government to TRDB at 4 percent interest per annum for
20 years with a 4-year grace period on interest and capital repayments
under a subsidiary loan agreement the terms and conditions of which would
be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.13 draft Development Credit
Agreement). TRDB would onlend these funds to the joint venture companies
and ujamaa villages at8 percent per annum for 10 years including a three
years grace period on interest and capital repayments. The onlending rate
is in line with that being levied on other recently approved Bank Group
supported projects in the agricultural sector and is one percentage point
higher than the existing rate for long term loans charged by TRDB. The
4-1/2 percent interest and the repayment term margin that TRDB would derive
from onlending is sufficient to defray the costs of credit administration
and would provide for an accumulation of further funds for relending to
priority rural sector projects. Loans from TRDB to the joint venture com-
panies and ujamaa villages would represent 85 percent of the capital costs
of the respective investments, and the beneficiaries would contribute the
remaining 15 percent. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that
a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and TRDB acceptable to
IDA had been executed (Section 4.01 draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
43.        Contracts for machinery including all marine engines, equipment,
tugs and vehicles (US$2.0 million) would be awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Local manu-
facturers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate
of duty, whichever is the lowest. Contracts for goods and equipment costing
less than $50,000 are, in view of their small size not expected to attract
international interest and would be let following competitive bidding in
accordance with the Government's normal procurement procedures which are
satisfactory. Since civil works contracts (US$0.5 million) ana contracts
for building of fishing boats (US$4.5 million) would be individually small
and numerous and phased over time they are unlikely to attract international
bids, such contracts would therefore be placed in accordance with the
Government's normal competitive procedures (paragraph Bl, Schedule 3, draft
Development Credit Agreement). Because of the weakness of the private
sector and the likely lack of competition for boat building contracts, it
is expected that such contracts would, with the prior approval of the Asso-
ciation, be negotiated (paragraph Bl, Schedule 1, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Disbursements
44.        A schedule of estimated disbursements is included in Annex III.
The Association would disburse eighty percent of amounts disbursed on each



_ 18 -
loan by TRDB for development of fishing centers and ujamaa fishing units
(US$5.0 million) and 100 percent of the foreign or 75 percent of total
expenditures for technical services, housing and vehicles (US$3.0
million). In order to expedite project start up, provision would be made
to disburse retroactively up to $75,000 for expenditures on technical
services, housing and vehicles.
Benefits and Risks
45.         At full development, the project would result in about 21,000
tons of annual incremental marketed production of fish; this would
include about 400 tons of shrimps 1,800 tons of table fish, 13,500 tons
of dagaa and substantial quantities of other fish. The total annual value of
this production is estimated at TSh 40 million (US$5.0 million). This
expanded production would result in increased fish consumption in many
areas where diets are presently deficient; this would be especially
important in the case of the dried dagaa, as this represents the lowest
cost per unit of protein of all food consumed in Tanzania. An important
benefit of the project would be the development and demonstration of
more sophisticated although simple fishing techniques, at the village
level enabling local fishermen to better exploit an existing but greatly
under-utilized resource. The provision of the lake transport facilities
would also open up more remote areas of the lake shore to trade. It is
expected that these developments would help raise the incomes of those
living in the affected fishing communities and provide the basis for a
longer term development of the traditional fishing sector.
46.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 27
percent over twenty years. Individual rates of return were calculated for
specific project components; these are estimated at 22 percent for the
coastal fishing centers (19 percent of project-costs), 28 percent for the
Kigoma fishing center including lake transport facilities (38 percent of
project costs) and 30 percent for the ujamaa program (43 percent of project
costs).
47.       The project faces a number of risks.   Tanzania's institutions in
this sector are new and relatively inexperienced. Traditional fishermen
will be utilizing new and relatively sophisticated fishing techniques and
problems in acquiring the required skills may be anticipated. In addition,
further improvements in the marketing system for fish will be necessary if
the project is to provide the basis for the longer-term development of the
sector. A number of steps have been taken in an attempt to minimize these
potential problems. The project has been carefully phased and has been
deliberately designed to be flexible in order that the benefits of learning



- 19 -
by doing can be maximized. Fishing methods in the ujamaa fisheries program
will be changed and adapted in light of experience. Special efforts would
be made to ensure that crews are adequately trained in the use of new tech-
niques. Appropriate internationally recruited staff would be employed to
assist in this effort as well as to strengthen the various institutional
entities involved in the project. Even though it is expected that the
cooperative operation and ownership of boats under the ujamaa component of
the project will ensure equitable distribution of benefits within the parti-
cipating villages, these aspects would be monitored closely,
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the recommendation of the
Committee referred to in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the draft resolution approving the
proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the form
previously used for this type of project.
49.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42 and 43).
Additional conditions of Credit effectiveness would be the signing of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement whereby the Government will relend part
of the proceeds of the Credit to TRDB (paragraph 42 above) and the
establishment of the project coordinating committee (paragraph 39
above).
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 18, 1976






Page I. of 4 pages
TABLE I'l
TANZANIA              -D mOAR. INDICAORuS "VAl lNET
LAND AREA (THOU 6N2)                                                                    ......
-;; ...                                     TANZANIA MSRE      NTREFERENCE COUNYRIES (1970)
ARABLE          ..1960                                1970    ESTIMATE           KENYA           KORtEA, RV. 00'_MALAYSIAH-
SIP PER CAPITA (USS)                          600        11.          130.0                040.0       270.0        440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  IMIDYR. NILLIONO     ~~9.6 /a    12.9 /a.     1A.0/a              11.2         31.4         10.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PEA SQUARE KM.                           10.0         14.0        15.0                 19.0        119.0         33.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LANO                  .        147.0...                                      749.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            46.          47.            .                 46.0         TBO          14.0 /
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            25.          22.             .180                           8.0          7.0 4
INFANT NORTALITY RATE C/THOU)           190.0       160.0            ..55.0/m                         .         41.0~
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH fITRS)          38.0   ,     412.0       44.0                 48. 0        65.0        644.0 
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     ..         3.2          3.2                 3.4          2.6          2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                     2.1          3.0          2.9                 3.1          2.4          3.1
URA                                         ..         5.0 /a.      4.5                 r.0 lb       4.0
URB:ANPOPULATION CI OF TOTAL)                4.0         6.0 /a       7.0                 10.0        41 .0        29.0 /a
AGE STRUC TURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEA RS                          42.  ~        44                               84          42.1        45.0 
15 TO 64 YEARS                           56.0 0       53.0           ..,               46. :0       54.6b        52.0 ~
65 TEARS AND OVER                         2.0   a b    2.46.                            3.A          3.3          3.0 4.
AGE DEPENDENC    RAI                        0.68 ~__     0.9 L         .110.                                       0.,:9 ~a
Eco NOM,IC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.    7     12.                                .   .      1416 
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. ,THOU)               ...                       ...                                       22:0.0 l
USERS I1 OF M ARRIEO WOENI                   ..                       .                   ..                       .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTA  LAOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            4900.0       5400.0~           .50.                   b1400            20. 
L ABRFORCE ON,AGRICULTURE (Z)                 ..        91.0 7b'g 90.0 00Ad                           50.05        41. 0  ai
UEPOYE    Cl or  ABOR FOC).                             ..                               .5.0                   6.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF  RIVAT  INCME RECCDB
HIGHEST   51Fo POPULfATION                  ..        33.5   .       ..20.2 /e.                     20.1        26S.3 /
HIGHEST 2ZOO OFPOPULATION                  6. 3.3 Z                   .52. 6                        47.1        560 
L3WEST   201 OF POPULATION                  ..         2.3 7         .                  3.9          6. 1         3.5 
LOWEST   4 0? OF POPULATION                 ..         7.8                             It 1.?       16.2         1 1. 2  c
OISTRIAUTION OF LAND awNERSHIF'
0 OWNEO B    Top 10    F OWINERS               ...                                                    26.:0
% OWNED ATy SMALLENST1 10? OWNERS             ..                        ..                             20
HEALTH AND NUTAITION
POPULTION  EA PHSICIAN             20000.0/a.,12157O.Dlb    21450.0               73.     f    2210./b     3OY
POPULATIO    PER NURSING PERSON          8700a         BDOb         10014700 a                      1760O        DB. 
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               S3    O7.d~ 7000 aI.600                                   12.            7. 
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOR IES (1 OF REQUI)REMENTS)           69.0         73.0        96.0                301.0       103.0         9 4. 0  f
PROTEIN (GRA MS PE R DAY)                42.0         43.0        60.0                 71.0         45.0        49.0~
-OF WHICH ANIM4AL AND PULSE           22.0le       23.0           ..29.0                         19.0         20.0 4.
DEATH RATE (iTHOU) AGES 1-4                   ...                       ..                               .4.0
EDUC AT ION
ADJUSTE;iD ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           25.0         37.0           6. 4.0                        104.0        69.0
STCONDARY SCHOOL                          2.0          3.0           9. 0&Z                         41.0        34.0
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 13.0         13.0        13.0                 13.0         12.0        10.0
VOCATIONAL ENRO..LMENT
(   OF SECONDARY)                        23.0         G0.0oL         .                  2:0~&       15.0          3.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)                                                                  so...  10.0               77.0 b
HOUSING
PRSNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                    1.            ..                               .2?2.13
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT 
PIPED WATER (Z)                             ..        300//.,                                       ao.. 6.0o /c  65.0 /
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                        .                         ..                            50.0        43. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CZ)                          .                        ..                             30.0         00.0
CONSUMPTION
RA- DIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              2.0        11.0         16.0                46.0        126.0         41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                 ..         3.0          3.0                  9.0         2.0         25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                15.O/       69ob         3.                   6.0        309.0        346.0 /a.
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                    0.l   ~     0.1          0.1                 0.5          3. 4         4.0
SE  NTE  AN  DEFIN ITIOS   NRERE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2. pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sny year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recant Estimate between
1971 & 1973.
-c  Kalaysia has been selected as an objective coatry because its population is comparable in sloe and it. ecnoIc developsent to several oteps
ahead of Tanzawia.
TANZANIA         1960        Mainland Tanania;    /b 1957, African population;     /.  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ove   to total labor force.
d 1962;     /e  1961-63;   If  1958, Zanzibar; ~& 1963.
J22Q    a.  Mainland Tanzania;   Lb 19,67;   /.   House holds;  /d 1965;    /g  Urban only.
HOST NNCENT ESTIMATE, La Mainland Tanzania.
KENYA            1970     aRegistered only;         1962-69;   /a Ratio of population ander 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59, Years;
[d labor force age 15-59 years;    /e Urban households;     /f  Registered, not all precticing in the country;
7x tocludea teacher training at the third level.
KRA2flEPALOF     1970    /a   Registered;  /b   Registered, not all practicing in the country;   Li. Piped water inside.
MOAnflIA         1970    /a  West Molysia;    /b  Registered applicants for sorb;    /c  Houaehoids;   Ld  Registered, not all prac.ticing In the
country;   /a  Uo-er-at ocly;     If   196L-66;   La 19UT;    /h  Piped waler inside..
Ri March 19, 1976
OFTI0N   SOP CIAL MUCTOHRS
0an  h    1,9   Es onuaion ner nursing wusreo                                                                 - Popolation divided by,number of practi-
ThiZy5Ti      ae arm comprising land area and inland waters.                    ding sa e and remale graduate nurses, 'trained" or "certified'I nurses,
treble   M ost recent estisete of land area used temporarily or permanently           and auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
fnr rltinion,neetres, rkat and kitchen gar-dons or to lUe fallo.                 t      r      tal e.d - Population divided by number of hospital
besaraa   aei pu    ic and private general and epecialized hospital
GNP     cita (Us$) - OR? p'ar capita estimates at market prices, neleu-               and rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing hones and establishments
liEiOwiie conersion method as World Rank Atlas (197P-71, baste),                    for custodial and preventive care .
Pecasih:~ta  ueR Tof.caloisEo       reui    n ts)e- Computed from
si'M v talattistics                                                     e   r  euvenorstodsppTeeeaia'                     is country per
P  atlo.               o     As of July first; if not available, avenage           capita per day; available supplies comprise domestic prodition,
or two Ond~~~~~yUre'stfiwtra.                                  ln~~~iports less exports, and changes in stock; mat supplies exclude
animal feed, seede, quantities used in food processing and losses
Popoltiondensty -  Sr quar be-Mid~year population per square kilo-            in distributisnj requirements were estimated by FAO based on pbyai-
2esrter (100 heot iar   f8 tOta    ara                                                logical neede for normal activity and haslth considering eniro-
Population density - pe square be_ ofsble land - Computed a shaove f a                menia tempereturs, body' weight., age and sex distributions of ppop-
ara&ble lend only.                                                                  lation, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Per capi~.ta  u    fsofprotein (jarm per day) - Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                      capit  ne   upyo      odper day; cat supply of food in defined as
Crude birth rateTper housad - Annual live births per thousand of mid-                 above; requirementa for all countries' established by USmk Econ omic
yea  population; uull     five-yea  -v-rges ending in 1960, 19,70 and               Research Services provide fm a   minimu  alwneof 60 gram       of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                      protein pe  day, and 20 greass of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate 'IF thousand - Acnnua  deaths per thousand of sndd7.ar'              g-s ehoold be animal pro1tetz'; these   t-ndarde are lower than those
population; usually flv~eysxr -avrages ending in 1960, 1970 end 197                 of 75 grass of total protein and 23 grass of animal protein as an aver-
nfor developing countries.                                                           age for the world, proposed by FAQ in the Third World Food Surey.
ifant nortality rate C/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under on yea               Pesait      rtin saply from anima and pulse - Protein supply of food
of age per thousand live births.                                                    deSIP-2rived from    and pules to grams per day.
Li !  -yat birth      )- Average number of yerar of life reain-             Dahrats      thou    o  1   -Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4.
Tii   ""'h;luEujliyirinj -ys4ar averages ending to 1960, 1970 and 197             years,          en    tis age group; suggested as an indicator of mal-
for developing countries,                                                           nutrition.
0,08. wrod-trate -Average number of live daughters a woman~ will
bea  iher normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-              Education
specific fertility rates; usully five-year &avragesa ending In 1960,                 useerlmntrto-r                   shoolT - Enrollmnt of all ages as
1970 and 197  for developing countries.n; includes children aged
Population growth rate (%) - total- Compund annual growth rates of mid-               6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education,
yea  population for 195-0, 1b-70, and 1960 to most recet year.                      for countries with universal education, enrllment say exceed 100%
Popultio   groth rate (E)-ura       - Computed like growth rate of total              since some pupils are below or above the official school age.
puation  dirferent definitione of, urban areas may affect comp~ar-             Adjuste  enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed a.shaove; second-
ilyofdta among countries.                                                     aydacation requires at least four years of approved primary instruzo-
Ur-Ppltics    ( of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                 tion; provides general, vocational or teacher training instruction for
diffentdernitins  r  banareas may affect comparability of data              pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
samong cOUn tries,                                                                  zexluded.
Axe tmcte (Pcmt)- Chi-ldren (0-14. years), working age (15-61, years),        Years of4shoaolingprovidd(fTirstand, sond lvels) - Total years of
ad retired   5years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,               scoln;a        eodr      ee,vctonil instruction may be partially
Aedpdnyratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to                or completely excluded.
those or kgsa 15 through 64,.                                                     Voa.mlerlmn            8o    eodary) - Vocational institutions incleLde
Fcon~~~~-              Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over            techica, idutrialor        'othrporm      hc    peaeidpnety
to e        som  in age group of 1-61,yas                                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
Family                                                                              Adunlt-acetrs(umltie,tou  Cm,ltvea r  i  rte.  ) - Literate adults (able to read and wits) as
cstoreo birth control dev'ices underr auspices of national family              percnTjirt       Iiadult population aged 15 years and over.
planning program since inception.
Family plarn    - users CE of married women) - Percetages of marrieda
women of c9d-eaing age ki5-bC ye_ars)who use birth-control devic                     eons     room (amena  ) - Average somber of persons per rowm to occupied
to all. marie  women in saeme age group.                                            covninldmEsi urban areas; dwellings exclude son-persmnent
structures and unocupied pats.
I                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OccuDied dwellings without piped  twae  CE) - Occupied conventional dwell-
riaz     t      o   =     d   - Economically active persons, including                ings in urban and ruraarswthu          inside or outside piped  twae
-6ido6TiWMm       und   ISied but excluding housewives, students, sin.;              facilities as peretag    of all occupied dwellings.
definitions in venious countries are not comparble.                               Accmes to electric%t  (n ofall dwtlesg      C-Coventional dwellings with
labor force in agriculture ME - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                 electricity in 1iigqatrAspretofttldelnii                          ra
tutn   n   ishin) as percentage of total labor force.              an  r%ral arms.
4   flabor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons        Ruaggl  t     ,conected to electricity CE) - Computed asabe for ruali
iWIPa"alWiandwillhingto take a job, out of a job on a given day1                    &sl        n4s~y.
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable betwesh countries            C   
due to different definitions of unemployed end source of data, e.g.,                  o ea    ee       thou        All types of receivers for radio broad-
employment office statistics, sample surways, compulsory uneployment                nI g         Ner   puc Dpefr thousand of populato;ecue         n
insurance,                                                                          licensed recivr    in countries and in years when registattion of
radio asets was -inseffect; data for recet years nay not be comparable
Inoeditibution - Percentage of private income (both in cash end                   since most countries abolished licensing.
kid) recied by richest SE, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                          NA (R        hu  ) - Passenger cars ccsprise eator cars samt-
4.0% of population.                                                                      asF-CWan    h persema; excludes ambulances, heearst and
military vehicles.
Distibtion of. land oenwebpU     - Percetages of lend owned by wealth-              aew     i               cap  - Annual consumption of ind,itrial, cosew-
iest 105 and poorest l  of land owners *.0                           =    .Ind    vetsa electricity In kUiowtt hours per capita;
4eeal  aed on production data, without allowance for loses in
Health end Nutrition                                                                  gride but allowing for imports end exporta of electricity.
V tJF   '~~    zion - Population divided by number of practicing               trm         W        g ca) - Per capita annual ceneumpt.iom in kilogmrem
p  can en  qualiidfon a medical school at university level.                      es    aedrra dMtc production plus net imports of newsprint.



Page 3 of 4 Pages
Actua                          Prjete                 19,57-   19 73 -   197.4-    19 7 5-        197   27_5   12A9-
73   L___                _  _ _    _ _         _ ___d_                       _        9 3     _ _
~~~         1~~974      1975      198      18         19 72   4274      l9.L      1980
NATIONAL ACCOMt                          97              Pics     Echng     Hte           verage Anual Growth Rates           As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                        1519.2Z    878        1*.        02.      Z1           .         .        3.9       4L       0.      0.      0 
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                   -        -14 2       -45.6     -50.3    -79 8--                                                    -2.4    -3.3
Gross Domestic Income                         178 19.2  tfl6        fW3l0     1'97t.6  nun.         4.5       1.9       2.2       4.7     10o     IDOTO   iOD
Import (incl. FSF)                             519.8     530.6       469.3     483.3    584 8       6.8       2 5     -11.6       4.5      28.6    PA.8    24.5
Exports    .   (import capacity)              -41L~      9 08.8      257.8     283.4    382.8       2.6.    -25.9     416.5       8 2      22.9    13.6    16.0
Resource Gap                                   102.8    'flT.8       flT5      1W.9    =2D.0          .                                      x   7172       1
Consumption Expenditures                      1538.6    1668.4      1688.4    1722.2   2052.5       4.8       8.4       1.2       4.0      84.6    89.1    86.1
Investment        (incl. stocks)               406.6     407.0       418.1.    455.3    533.6       8.4       0.2       2.7       5.0      22.4    22.1    22.4
Domestic Savings                               280.6     185.2       206.6     255.4    331.6       2.7.    -34.0      11.6        9.9     15.4    10.9    13.9
National Savings                               286.8     187.2        213.9    251.8    291.7       3.4.     34.7      14.3        6.4     15.8    11.3    12.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total
1972      1973       1974                           1980                                             1973     1975    1980
Imports
capital goods                     125.2      135.1     185.7                          329.6                                             29.4     25.7    29.3
Intermediate goods (Wrtfuels) 154.4          169.4     189.2                          378.2                                             36.8     31.9    33.7
F'uels and related materials       41.3       53.1     148.5                          301.1                                             11.6     26.0    26.8
of which:   Petroleum           (41.3)     (53:1)   (1498.5)                       (301.1)                                           (11.6)   (26.0) (26.8)
Consumptio     od                  jgj       fl2      .L1fL 8                                                                           22.2     165      0.
TtlMreh. Imorts (Caf)        438         598      7.51123.7                                                                       100.0     100.0  100.0
Exports
Primary produacts (ecl. fuel-s)   208.6      263.6     309.8                          471.0                                             79.8     75.0    69.8
Fuels and related mraterials       30.7       12.5      18.5                           52.5                                              3.8      5.8     7.8
of which:   Petroleum           (30.7)    ( 12.5)    (18.5)                         (52.5)                                            (3.8)    (5.8)   (7.9)
Manufactured goods                 49.1       54.4      55.4                          151.2                                             16.5     19.2    22.4
Total Merch. Exports (fob)        288.4      330.5     383.7                          674.7                                            0OT      IDOT     IDMM
Tourism and Border, Traoie
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1973.    - 100 
Export Price Index                 89.6      100.0      152.0       142.2     137.9  201.6
Import Price Index                 86.7      100.0      159.0       177.1     185.9  243.6
Terms of Trade Index              100.2       100.0      95.6        80.3      84.9    82.8
Exports Volume Index              109.7      100.0      81.2         71        79    i11
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Ajiumal Data at 1973-    Prices and Exchange Rates              Averae Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
1967-1     1972-74   9197-80u        1973    1973    1980
Agriculture                       640.6      647,7     634.1        665.8     685.8   784.7         2.6       --0.5       3.3         393     37.9    35.-6
Industry and Mining               206.6      208.7     210.8       217.1     228.0    281.1    -    5.0         0.6       5.3         12.7    12.3    12.7
Service                          .7J37.0     790.0     83.         876..0JA.  9.8     146           61          64        5.4         48.0    49.8    51.7
Total                            1584.2     1646.4    1679.2       1758.9   1833.5   2207.3         4.5         3.0       4.6        100.0   100.0   100.0
Actual                 Eat.     Budget                                                      AsPr      to     D2/
PUBLIC FINANCE                         FY72      pY73      pY74       pY75       FY76                                                      A    ecn      fCP
(ECentral Government)                     (in millions of current T Shiiing-s)                                                          FY72    FY73    FY74
Current Receipts                 1859         2357      3002       3884     4007                                                      17.7    19.7    23.2
Current Expenditures             1717         2134      2685      3694      3530                                                      16.4    17.8    20.8
Budgetary Savings                =f!            23     -317         190      477                                                       13      1.9     2.75
Other Pablic Sector 1             241          264        ..        .          .2.3                                                            2.2
Public Sector Investment         1694         1836     1996       2301        ..16.2                                                          15.3    15.4
CURRENT EXPEND)ITURE DETAILS                            Actual          Prelim.    Eet.
As % Total Current Expend.)                      FY1972     FY1973    FY1974   FY1975
Edu..ation                                         17.3       16.7      14.8     16.1
Other Social Services                              12.5       11.8      11.7     14.6
Agriculture283                                                24        314       32
Other Economic Services )                          2.          54       3.       2.
Administration and Defense )41.8                              46.1      42.2     46.1
Other
Total Current Expenditures                        100.0      100.0     100.0    100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  1965       1973      197.6    1981
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1970       1975      1980     1985
Average ICOR                                         -F9         TY-      TrT      W7.T
Import Elasticity                                     1.6       -0.5       1.0      1.1
!trginal Domestic Savings Rate                        0.1       -0.6       0.3      0.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                        0.2       -0.6       0.2      0.1
LABOR FORCE ANDO                                  Total Labor Porces                                  Value Added Per Worker    (incurrent prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKERR                 In Million           $of Total                               In U.S.Dofllars       Perento     Avrage
1971            LW1971                                    1971                   1971
Agriculture                       5.3                  91                                        98                      43
Industry                          0.1                   2                                      1590                    694
Service                           0.4                   7                                      2170                    948
Total                             5.8                 100-                                     -Fig-                    mu-
sot applicable          -nil or ne-gligible          -        1/  Parastatal contribution to net current incoe.
not available         --less than half the                    il  Averaged from calender year.                                            EACPIA
smallest unit shown                                                                                             may 1976



Page 4 of 4 Pages
( e  n112 do             F  ur      pricas)
Avg. Anneal
Aetosal                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Pro.ected                             Grovth Rate
1972        19u731    * 1974                     :7         1977       1978        1979       1980                    1972  -1980
SSIMARY BALANCE OF PAYIMENTS
E.ports (icI.   NFS)                        397.5        417.0       491!0                    574.4     643.0       718.7      816.2      922.1                       11.1
7   nPirt  e (ic NF.                        476.1       519           4,3 775.S                         gg3.5      989.4      1113.1     1265.4                       13.0
gesource Balance (X-M)                      -79.6        -|~!I                               - 6   .tOI.3  -240.5  -270.6     -297.0     -343.3                      29.8
Interest  (net)                             )_3.4        10.4        .4.6                    .24.8      -30.1      -32.7       -35.6      -39.8                      34.2
Direct InvoatLent Inca..                    )             -I.3         0.5                    .2.0       -2.0       -2.0        -2.0       -2.0
Workers' Remittance                           0.0           .0          0 0.0                   0.0       0.0         0.0        00.0
Current Transfers (not)                      -1.7          0.7        15.7                     22.4      15.0        15.0       15.0        15.0
8.1qnce   on Current Acc-to   u        LBw Z3     i                                     -205.7    -257.6     -290.4      -319.6     -320.1
Private Direct Investment                    -             1.5         2.7                      2.8       2.8         2.8        2.8         2.8                      12.5
Official Capital Gr-nts                      16.0         16.0        20.0                     27.5      30.3        33.3       36.6        40.3
P.blic M&LT L.s..
Di bersemeeta                             110.6         88.4       107.6 3/                 112.9     111.3 5/    133.5 5/   160.8 5/   191.4 5/                    11.2
-RePay.neets                               -15.4        -18_3       -1.                      -18.4     -21.1       -27.4      -30.3      -39.6                       12.5
Net Disb.rsemestt                            95.2         7                                    94.5      90.2       106.1      130.5       151.8                       6.0
Other M6LT Loans 1V                          ...          ...         ...                      ...       ...
Disbursenents
-Repayments_
Net Disbur-esents                             4.5          9     ..                                        ...
Use of IMF Resources                          -            -          46.3                                                                Actual
Capital Transactions n.c.t.                  28.2        -29.3        63.8                                                  1972     1973      1974     1975
Ch.asc in nec Re--rve.                      -60.2        -20.5        91.0                    D     N  DEBT SERVICE 7/
rubic Debt Oat. & Diabursed 335.6       416.4    565.2     789.7
GRANT AND LOAN COH4iIMTSENT
Official Grants & Grant-like                                                                    Interest on Public Debt       6.9      8.2       8.9     12.2
Repayments on Public   Debt 29.0      11.4      12.7     22.0
Public M6LT Loans                                                                               Total Public Debt Service    35.8     19.6      21.6     34.2
1BRD                                         -            -           65.0                      Otber Debt Service (net)
D     6/                                     10.8         28.8        61.2                      Total Debt Service (net)
Other -                                      -            -           -
Other Multilat-ral                             3.3         1.8         7.1                    Burden on Euport Earnings (7.1
GlOovrn-et.                                  49.3         94.9        112.5
Suppliers                                    -            -           -                         Punlic Debt Service           9.0      4.7       4.5       7.1
Financial InstLtutions                        -           -           *                         Total Debt Service
Boads                                        -            -           -                         TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.      10.2       6.0      4.4      9.5
Public Loand n.e.i.
Total Public M&LT Loans                         63.4       123.3       1 4.                     Average Teres of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outa.tandiag on Dec. 31. 1974                Int. as % Prior Year D0&D     2.7      2.4       2.1      2.1
EXTERNAL DEBT                             Disbursed Onv                Pergen-                    Anort. as % Prior Year DO&D 11.1        3.4      3.1      3.9
World Bank                                   40.9
IDA                                          63.3                     II.B                      IBRD Debt Oat. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral                            10.4                      1.9                      "  as % Public Debt O&D      7.2       7.9      7.3      9.7
Governments                                 389.9                     72.5                          as % Public Debt Serv 9! 3.6       11.2     13.0     16.9
Suppliers                                     0.1
F-.a.cil Inotitutiona                       12.3                      2,3                    IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                         7.9                      1.5                       a A2 Public Debt O&D        14.6     13.8      13.2      9.6
Public Debts n.e.i.                          13.0                      2 4                       as % Public Debt Serv. 9/    1.1      2.0       2.8      1.9
Total Publc MHLT Debt                       537.9                     0
Notional onc-third share of PAC debt         86.0
of whch. World Bank                        (38.0)
Other                           (48.0)
TOTAL                                       623.9
. nSr applicable                                             e staff estimate "t                 Parastatal and Private H6LT loans.
not availblo                                               - nil or negliible               2/ Includes drawing on Arab Fund for Africa ($7.1 i.)
. cot available separately                                  .- le.s than half the             3/ Includes bilateral and multilsteral program assintance of $91.0 o.
but Included in total                                        nealleat unit sshon           4/ includes proposed   08RD progron credit of $30 0 m.
Q                                                                5/ No program asqistance assumed.
6I W   Oil aPcility and Credit Troocho.
7/ Not including Tano.nannW share in EAC debt.
9/ IBRD and IDA Debt Service an 7. of Public Debt Service
EACPLA
May 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF   MAY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower     Purpose                     Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                    65.2   43.0
586  TA      1969    Tanzania     Roads                        7.0              1.9
149  TA      1969       "         Education                             5.0      0.5
217  TA      1970       "         Tobacco                              9.0       1.2
232  TA      1971       "         Education                            3.3       1.3
265  TA      1972       "         Roads                                 6.5      2.6
287  TA      1972       "         Smallholder Tea                     10.8       4.6
371  TA      1973       "         Education                            10.3      9.7
382  TA      1973                 LivestQck 1'                         18.5     14.4
454  TA      1974                 Cotton                               17.5     15.7
460  TA      1974                 Tanzania Investment Bank              6.0      3.0
715  TA      1974    TANESCO      Power                        5.0               0.6
1014  TA      1974    Tanzania     Cashewnut                    21.0             13.8
495  TA      1975       "         Sites and Services                    8.5      6.4
507  TA      1975       "         Highway Maintenance                 10.2      10.2
508  TA      1975                 Rural Development                    10.0      9.4
513  TA      1975                 Sugar                                 9.0      3.4
1041  TA      1975                 Sugar                        9.0               9.0
580  TA      1975                 Dairy                               10.0       9.9
1128  TA      1975                 Textile                     15.0              14.7
1172  TA      1975                 Tanzania Investment 7nk     15.0              14.3
601  TA      1976                 Technical Assistance-/                6.0      6.0
606  TA      1976                 National Maize Program               18.0     18.0
607  TA      1976                 Education                            11.0     11.0
Total                                           137.2    212.6   181.6
of which has been repaid                        1.0      3.4
Amount sold                  0.1
of which has been repaid   0.1
Total now outstanding-/                          136.2   209.2
Total undisbursed                                54.3   127.3
1/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of w.hich $3.4 is undisbursed.
2/ Not yet effective
_/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS   OF MAY 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.          Year    Borrower      Purpose                        Bank      Undisbursec
Three loans fully disbursed                                       75.0
638  EA      1969    EAHC          Harbours                       35.0          2.3
674  EA      1970    EARC          Railways                       42.4         12.0
675  EA      1970    EAPTC         Telecommunications             10.4           .0*
843  EA      1972    EADB          Development Finance             8.0           1.0
865  EA      1972    EAHC          Harbours                       26.5         11.3
914  EA      1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications             32.5         10.4
1204  EA      1976    EADB          Development Finance            15.0         15.0
Total                                       244.8         52.0
of which has been repaid                   32.7
Total now outstanding                       212.1
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4          0
Total now held by Bank                      212.1
Total undisbursed                            52.0
*   $21,251.53 remains undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /
(As of March 31, 1976)
There are currently 21 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217 TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
As a result of the Tanzanian Government's acceleration of its
villagization program a total of about 7,200 families have been moved to
villages in the tobacco complexes, bringing the number of project farmers
to 10,000. With these vigorous efforts, it is now likely that the appraisal
target of 15,000 farmers will be reached in 1976.    Strict measures to
enforee minimum tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to
increased tobacco production. However, yields Fer hectare and quality of
leaf have been below anticipated levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and coopezative services. Provision of water
supplies and social infrastructure is progressing well.
Credit No. 287 TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems in Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and a
definite improvement in the control over the field activities. The com-
pletion of 956 ha of new planting during 1974/75 brings the total project
planting to 5,086 ha or 61% of the total target area. A further 500 ha is
planned for 1975/76 season.   The past lack of technical, administrative
and financial control over the four widely dispersed project areas
reflected in TTA's current financial problems. A special supervision
mission has been scheduled to examine these problems and propose remedial
measures.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Credit No. 232 TA - Second Livestock Development
Project: $18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness - September 28, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Although improvements to the organization and management involved
in this project were made during 1975, implementation has been extremely
slow and disbursements thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal fore-
cast. Slow implementation is mainly a result of the size and complexity
of the Project and of the delays encountered in recruiting staff and in
concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and the supply of
heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected to pick
up momentum now that these problems have been resolved.
Credit No. 454 TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The conditions in which the project is operating were radically
changed by the 1974 decision that farmers throughout the district should
move into villages and by relative price changes in the producer prices for
maize and cotton which occurred in 1974 and 1975. In addition, management
problems have slowed project implementation. For the 1975/76 cropping season
the project is focusing nn twenty selected villages and it is hoped that
this will accelerate implementation.
Loan No. 1014 TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consolida-
tion of its activities are proceeding slowly. Recruitment and strengthening
of staff needs to be intensified in order to fully utilize five additional
cashewnut processing factories contained in this project.
Credit No. 508 TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Significant improvements in institutional arrangements were noted
in the most recent supervision mission and the parastatal organizations
involved in this project have become both more active and effective. Agri-
cultural prospects have also improved with better standards of land clearance
and preparation, timing and spacing of planting and use of fertilizers.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
However, implementation of the credit provisions of the project to start
up later this year is likely to be difficult and little has been done
with regard to a number of minor project components (involving feeder
roads, livestock and tsetse clearance). While planning and procurement
of materials are complete construction of the social and regional infra-
structure program has lagged behind schedule. A preparation team was
recently installed in Mwanza to prepare integrated rural development pro-
jects for Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions, and the existing and future
information base and supporting activities appear promising.
Credit No. 513 TA and Loan No. 1041 TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate  field development is ahead of schedule with 2,740 acres
of sugar cane planted during 1974/75 (about 500 acres over the target)
while outgrowers planting of 400 acres is about 200 acres behind schedule.
Construction of the new sugar mill, financed by Dutch and Danish loans,
is on schedule and should be completed by July 1976. Procurement of field
machinery and equipment and supporting project activities are progressing
reasonably well. Due to cost escalation of the housing and community
development component some problems have been encountered in initiating
construction of staff housing.
Credit No. 580 TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 28, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key
personnel and the first phase of procurement.
Credit No. 606 TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This project was declared effective on May 28, 1976. The
initial stages of project implementation are proceeding well. Key
personnel for the project have been recruited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149 TA - Second Education Project: $5.0
million Credit of May 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
June 19, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Most project schools are finished but the Closing Date was
extended to finalize disbursements. Schools are adequately furnished but
not yet fully equipped. Procurement and installation of the remaining
furniture and equipment is in progress. The project has experienced a
minor overrun of $0.4 million. A completion mission is scheduled for
late 1976.
Credit No. 232 TA - Third Education Project: $3.3
million Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
May 10, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 18 months
to December 31, 1976, to provide ample time for its completion. All civil
works, furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil works
are about 75% complete, but contracts are behind schedule because of material
shortages.  Ineffective project management and failure of Government to
appoint a Project Accountant have limited follow-up activities and cor-
rection of deficiencies and may result on further delays. A number of
changes in the programs and management of the institutions involved in this
project are being discussed with'the Government.
Credit No. 371 TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Design work of all project institutions, except for the three
secondary schools eliminated because of cost overruns, will be completed
by the end of 1975. Out of 18 project instituions construction works had
started on eight sites only. All construction work is scheduled to be
completed in the beginning of 1978. The project unit is now working satis-
factorily and a new project coordinator has been appointed by the Govern-
ment. Most recent estimate of project costs came to about US$22 million,
excluding the three secondary schools, a cost overrun of about 15%. While
disbursements are expected to increase substantially it is likely that the
Closing Date will have to be extended until the end of 1978.
Credit No. 607 TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0
million Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
March 23, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Government has begun to implement the Rural Training component
and the Project Unit responsible for the secondary schools is already in
operation assisting in the implementation of previous Bank education projects.



ANNEX II
P,age 7 of 10
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460 TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172 TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 30, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this loan are proceeding quickly. Nine sub-
projects totalling $7.8 million have been approved for disbursements.
Loan No. 1128 TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date July 1, 1979
The Textile Corporation of Tanzania (TEXCO) has appointed the
project engineers and technical advisors and tenders for major project
components have been received and are being evaluated. TEXCO has also
appointed the consultants to carry out the feasibility study for constructing
a textile plant for producing polyester=cotton blended materials.
Credit No. 601 TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
After some initial delays, necessitating the postponement of the
terminal date of effectiveness, the Tanzanian Investment Bank is now re-
cruiting key project unit staff who will supervise the exectition of this
credit. A great deal of interest has been generated in this project and it
is ant'icipated that it will be declared effective as soon as the head of
the project unit has been recruited.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715 TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0 million
Loan of December 14, 1970 and $5.0 million Supplementary Loan
No. 712-2 TA of June 24, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - March 31,
1971 and September 26, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
Construction work for this,project is essentially completed. The
project is on schedule and the first and second unit came nn stream in



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
March 1975 and July 1975, respectively. Negotiations were recently held
for the second stage Kidatu power project.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265 TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After long delays in completing tender arrangements, the con-
tract for the Mtwara-Masasi road was signed at nearly three times the
appraised cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million loan from
ADB and use of the $1.8 million balance from the Bank's Second Highway Pro-
ject (Loan No. 586 TA). The portion of the road now financed by the Bank
is nearing completion. Execution of road betterment works in two agri-
cultural areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily
in one area but is behind schedule in the other. Preinvestment studies for
Kilombero and Kilimanjaro areas have been completed and final reports are
being reviewed.
Credit No.. 507 TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The project is more than one year behind schedule. Tenders for
equipment procurement were opened in October 31, 1975 and orders have now
been placed. The Government has been negotiating with consultants for
assistance in recruiting experts with no result so far. The Bank has been
discussing with the Government how this problem can be resolved as it is
seriously delaying the project. Consultants have submitted the draft final
report of the Trucking Industry Study, being supported under the Credit and
this report may form the basis for a future Bank project.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495 TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for infra-
structure construction at all seven sites have been awarded and are
expected to be completed on schedule. Other components of the project,
i.e. training, monitoring/evaluation and nutrition studies are progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX   II
Page 9 of 10
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
General
Owing to delays in meeting debt service on various loans to
the East African Corporations disbursements to the East African Railways
Corporation, East African Harbours Corporation, the East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African Development Bank
were suspended on April 28, 1976. Following receipt of outstanding pay-
ments the suspension was lifted on June 1, 1976.     The background to
these events is described in paragraphs 12 to 15 above.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) are proceeding with the
decentralization study.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969: Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31. 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postpone from December 31, 1975
to December 31, 1976. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865 EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements-intended to be financed under Loan 865_EA, will have to
be deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been
increased accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.S33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa and declined in Dar es Salaam.
At the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
and increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA are now being used, although transit sheds
and open storage areas for them have not yet been completed.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing-with all aspects
of development financing operations. The entire first loan has now been
committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976: Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations and the situation has improved by a rate increase
allowed by the Community in February 1975. All major items have been
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to a long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 12 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                US$9 million equivalent
TERMS:                 Standard IDA terms
RELENDING:            About $5 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit for
investments at the fishing centers and ujamaa units would be relent
to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) for 20 years 4ncluding
four years grace at 4 percent per annum. TRDB would onlend these
funds to project beneficiaries at 8-1/2 percent for ten years with
three years grace.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:              The first stage of a long term program to develop
fisheries production in Tanzania. It would support the establish-
ment and development of commercial fisheries at three marine
and one inland centre on Lake Tanganyika; the development of
a pilot village fisheries program and the provision of fish
transport facilities on Lake Tanganyika, studies on marketing
and pollution, future project preparation and the provision
of related technical services.
COST OF PROJECT:                               Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ 000)
Coastal Fishing Centers            466        453         919
Lake Tanganyika Fishing Center     755        845       1,600
Ujamaa P:Llot Fisheries Program  1,004      1,101       2,105
Lake Transport                      68        266         334
Market and Pollution Studies       240         270        510
Technical Services                 500      1,847       2,347
Sub-total                        3,033      4,782       7,815
Physical Contingencies             304        480         784
Price Contingencies              2,017      1,759       3,776
Total Project Cost               5.354       7,021     12,375
FINANCING PLAN:           The financing plan is expected to be as follows:
(US$ Million) Percentage
IDA                                         9.0             72
Government of Tanzania                      2.2             18
Joint venture companies and
Ujamaa cooperatives                       1.2             10
Total                                      12.4            100



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
Fiscal Year
(US$ 000's)
1977        1978        1979         1980        1981
1,200       3,000       2,200        1,400       1,200
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:    International competitive bidding for machinery, including
marine engines, tugs, equipment and vehicles.   Local manufacturers
would be allowed a preference of 15 percent cr the existing rate of
duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for goods expected to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less would be let in accordance with the
Borrower's usual procurement procedures. Contracts for civil works
and fishing boat construction would be let in accordance with the
Borrower's normal competitive procedures provided that if there is
not sufficient competition for boat construction such contracts may
be negotiated with the prior approval of the Association.
CONSULTANT
SERVICES: Project includes funds for 40 manyears of technical assistance
at $48,500 per manyear. None of these personnel have yet been
recruited.
RATE OF
RETURN :        Overall economic rate of return is estimated at 27 percent.
APPRAISAL
REPORT:         Report No. 963a-TA dated March 8, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Region
MAP:            A map of Tanzania which shows the location of the proposed
project is attached.     (IBRD Map No. 11795 dated August 1975.)



IBRD 11795-
o I                               _5   *Cd/rC..AA,C  AUGUST 1975
U G        D A             i    /
rt-,_ f ~~~~~~~~~K E N Y A cA 
~  7          +     V  C to,aSST,I  N.  AAA/
|RWANDA< 
B8URUNDIZt                                     X               X        4NJA.s UO
-  AK/~ ~%A ANJAR O.  T
1        BORA                                                GA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bO OTT,4T,OS.,
Li \ ) A                      R  A                             b-h       >PgMBAD t AA
\;                               i)  Vpondo >\ / ( ) ) jsgmW~~~~~~~~~C) 
ny\, A  f      $      l >Rungwo           A   S   o   2                     0DAR-ES-SALAAM
OGM ~~~)A-ES-SALAAM
> K  e  \   b   X   /  < X _  ;//3  v u m l  z ,,  t  |  25   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~n d/X a n
P'l.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~M,yo M kTT-O
REPUBLIC OF0 t  \    CG,                         ING4hne       X      ,X,        Sus 
ZAIRE   >      eBrldgeM      B / E  Y   AE  7 z />       2&              t  b   *s' JMf4A
:2g~~~~~~~~~~~                                    ... ~~~MOOO e'T'Oceon
_   PI~TJ, O/naTng             lslS         //      9fiTd=c V log Fa Oh,  C,o        e a MAnd
ZAMBIA                                                                      Ng1 g  _,n lo TTbo,.  (  4. KoM?T,TT,.T  Te
TA~~~~~~~~~BY                  Md-b rgud sukylOoam                  t
FISHERIES DEVELOPM
PRO JEC T'fS/> ugr S/cwe9
M  P...... d F..h,ng Ce-...               o  \  
- 0  o  Vidg  F,ng A,... F. C .                                              M
P,.p ...d T%g -d B0-g. R.w.      \,X                              N.oh.g'  M
OT11ER FEATURES:                   ~                 _                   Jr=9nos     < 
AU  F.,heI..- R o1-r-h STowiT
E' E,TblIhed B.,T,a,d.    4. F|                U  V  U  M  A
R.gion-I  O-h0. Mem R.od.  I\
-  -  IfOatTTi,,.. BHund.r.d T--T-  \MALAW I OT  nr.  , -  R
a  '  5'0   .oo   2?0 f?o LsO   M;OOLuoMETIt   j             MOZAM  B I QU E
O     50           0    500  Is fi                                                   40



