Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/11/2006 
Report No.:  AC2245
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P099327 
Project Name:  Fifth Population Census of Sudan 
Task Team Leader:  Bassam Ramadan 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 3, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: February 26, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTH3 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (65%);Sub-national government 
administration (35%) 
Theme:  Population and reproductive health (P);Other human development (P);Social 
analysis and monitoring (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
40.70 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
33.00
73.70 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The immediate objective of the Fifth Population Census is to produce reliable and 
accurate demographic, economic and social data that can be used as benchmark for 
development planning. This project will enable the primary target groups:- the 
government, the international development community and the community providing 
humanitarian assistance to have accurate and reliable data to formulate and monitor their 
plans.  
 
The long-term objective is to develop capacities within Sudan for collection and 
analysis of data from censuses and surveys. The project will result in sustainability of 
data collection and analysis in the future through increased capabilities in census surveys, 
better sample frames for future surveys, quality maps to be used in data collection and 
stratification, and expanded data processing facilities in both North and South.  
 
Different outputs of the project include locality and household lists, maps, sampling 
frames for future surveys, provisional data and cross tabulations, databases at sub-
Page  2
national level, analytical reports, population projections, etc. As the project progresses, 
these outputs will become available in stages. The progress of the project will be 
reflected in the availability of these outputs. The increased capacity of the statistical 
institutions will be reflected in the number of trained personnel available for future 
statistical activities.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Interim National Constitution (INC) and the Comprehensive Peace Agreement 
(CPA) have both provided for the Population Census to be conducted in the second year 
of the Interim Period, while the general elections to be conducted not later than the fourth 
year of the Interim Period. The conduct of the population census is not only a 
constitutional obligation, but it is a critical exercise for effective implementation of the 
CPA as well as facilitating the democratic governance in the Sudan. This project is to 
support the Fifth Population Census of Sudan to be conducted according to international 
scientific standards in order to produce credible and accurate results. These results will be 
used for realizing the political, economic, social and environmental objectives enshrined 
in the INC and CPA.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will cover the 15 states of Northern Sudan and 10 states of Southern Sudan.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Colin P. Rees (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project is not expected to trigger any safeguard issues as it involves collection of 
data, mapping areas, and capacity building.  Although not a safeguard issue per se, the 
design of the census will ensure representation of minority groups or indigenous peoples 
Page  3
through NGO representation in the Advocacy and Publicity as well as the Monitoring and 
Observers Committees overseeing implementation of the Census.  
 
The project will involve minor rehabilitation of parts of existing statistical offices in the 
North and GOSS buildings in the South to be fitted as data entry and processing centers.  
However, the team has ascertained during appraisal that this will not involve triggering of 
OP on resettlement, or on environment.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
As the project is funding a survey, there are no direct impacts.   Indirect effects are 
expected to increase the transparency of resource allocation by providing better data on 
the population of both Northern and Southern Sudan.   In order to ensure that this 
materializes, the census institutional structure is built around a participatory monitoring 
mechanism, which includes representation by several civil society organizations, related 
associations and NGOs on the committees mentioned above. These committees will 
monitor and observe the census operations at all stages and levels; ensure compliance 
with census established criteria and standards; ensure comprehensive coverage of all 
areas and groups in Sudan; and ensure transparency of all census procedures and 
operations.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.  The technical assistance and oversight provided under this project by the 
UNFPA and other agencies will increase the likelihood that the census is carried out in an 
open, technically proficient, and transparent manner.   As noted above, particular 
safeguards have been incorporated to ensure proper monitoring of its implementation by 
the relevant stakeholder groups represented on the Census committees.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The census does not raise safeguard issues, and therefore no measures have been taken.  
The Government of Sudan is committed to this open monitoring by all groups including 
minorities and less visible groups such as pastoralists.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Because of the centrality of the census both to the political process, and to future resource 
allocation decisions, its results hold implications for all citizens of both Northern and 
Southern Sudan.   Sudan is a large country, with diverse populations and it will therefore 
be paramount to ensure representation both of various political parties and of regional 
and ethnic groups in monitoring the census implementation, and in understanding the 
methods.   Accordingly, a public information campaign will be launched by the 
respective committee and information sessions will be held by the consultants organizing 
the census with various stakeholder groups.  The Government intends to implement the 
Page  4
Census in all areas, including Darfur and other conflict zones with the help of relevant 
African and UN agencies on the ground in conflict areas.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N.A.  Project is Category C.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
Page  5
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Bassam Ramadan 
04/05/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Colin P. Rees 
04/05/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Laura Frigenti 
04/12/2006 
Comments:   
