Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2105 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/27/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Sudan 
Project ID: P099327 
Project Name: Fifth Population Census of Sudan 
Task Team Leader: Bassam Ramadan 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 3, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: February 26, 2006 
Managing Unit: AFTH3 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Central government administration (65%);Sub-national government 
administration (35%) 
Theme: Population and reproductive health (P);Other human development (P);Social 
analysis and monitoring (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
59.00 
 SPECIAL 
FINANCING 
48.00
107.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The immediate objective of the Census is to produce reliable and accurate demographic, 
economic and social data that can be used as benchmark for development planning. This project 
will enable the primary target groups- the government, the international development community 
and the community providing humanitarian assistance to have accurate and reliable data to 
formulate and monitor their plans.  
 
The long-term objective is to develop capacities within Sudan for collection and analysis of 
data from censuses and surveys. The project will result in sustainability of data collection and 
analysis in the future through increased capabilities, better frames for future surveys, quality 
maps, and expanded data processing facilities.  
 
Different outputs of the project include locality and household lists, maps, sampling frames for 
future surveys, provisional data and cross tabulations, data bases at sub national level, analytical 
Page  2
reports, population projections etc. As the project progresses, these outputs will become 
available in stages. The progress of the project will be reflected in the availability of these 
outputs. The increased capacity of the statistical institutions will be reflected in the number of 
trained personnel available for future activities.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
A
population census is the total process of collecting, compiling, evaluating, analyzing and 
publishing or otherwise disseminating demographic, economic and social data pertaining, at a 
specified time, to all persons in a country or in a well-delimited part of a country.  The essential 
features of a population census are individual enumeration, universality within a defined 
territory, simultaneity and defined periodicity.  
 
The population census is the largest data collection undertaking in a country by a government.  
Not only does it cover the whole country, but it provides information on every person, from the 
newly born babies to the oldest person in the country as well as for nationals and non-nationals.  
 
The census process involves four main phases: Pre-enumeration, Enumeration, Data Processing 
and Dissemination. The pre-enumeration phase involves the undertaking of various activities, 
which will ensure that the whole population will be covered during the actual census count 
(enumeration). Special efforts to ensure that specific groups are not excluded - including IDPs, 
nomads, opposition areas - will be taken in the project.   In order to monitor such efforts, options 
such as ensuring a balanced representation of stakeholders on the Project Steering committee 
will be assessed early in project implementation.  
 
The project is not expected to trigger any social safeguards.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The Census will cover all areas in both Northern and Southern Sudan.   Because of the security 
situation in parts of the country, the implementing agencies will be made aware of the 
implications of having the census team operating and being trained in areas in which facilities 
are no longer available and lack of security is likely to be a continuing issue. These issues will be 
carefully reviewed, possibly based on similar experiences in other post-war countries, and be 
shared with the Bank in time for final appraisal.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Not Applicable.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Thomas E. Walton (AFTEG) 
 
Page  3
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  03/15/2006 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
No safeguard reporting instruments required.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Bassam Ramadan 
02/22/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Thomas E. Walton 
02/22/2006 
Comments:  No SGP specialist required if project remains as defined in PCN and ISDS.  Later, should 
project involve land acquisition, construction, or potential environmental or social impacts, consult 
ASPEN. 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Laura Frigenti 
02/22/2006 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
