Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2257 
Project Name 
Fifth Population Census of Sudan 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (65%);Sub-national 
government administration (35%) 
Project ID 
P099327 
Borrower(s) 
Government of National Unity, Government of South Sudan 
Implementing Agency 
Central Bureau of Statistics and the Southern Sudan Centre for 
Census, Statistics and Evaluation 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
March 16, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 3, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
February 26, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Interim National Constitution (INC) and the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) have both 
provided for the Population Census to be conducted in the second year of the Interim Period, while the 
general elections to be conducted not later than the fourth year of the Interim Period. The conduct of the 
population census is not only a constitutional obligation, but it is a critical exercise for effective 
implementation of the CPA as well as facilitating the democratic governance in the Sudan. This project is 
to support the Fifth Population Census of Sudan to be conducted according to international scientific 
standards in order to produce credible and accurate results. These results will be used for realizing the 
political, economic, social and environmental objectives enshrined in the INC and CPA. 
 
Given the lack of credible socio-economic data as a result of protracted conflict that inhibited any sound 
census to be conducted in Sudan, the Fifth Population Census is expected to provide for the first time the 
commonly agreed upon baseline and benchmark data for social, economic and political development 
planning in the post-conflict period.  It will also provide a new basis for sampling frame for the 
implementation of much-needed household surveys such as household budget survey, agricultural census, 
labor force survey and annual light monitoring survey of key indicators related to poverty eradication 
strategy and MDGs.
 
2. Objectives 
 
The immediate objective of the Fifth Population Census is to produce reliable and accurate demographic, 
economic and social data that can be used as benchmark for development planning. This project will 
enable the primary target groups- the government, the international development community and the 
community providing humanitarian assistance to have accurate and reliable data to formulate and monitor 
their plans.  
 
The long-term objective is to develop capacities within Sudan for collection and analysis of data from 
censuses and surveys. The project will result in sustainability of data collection and analysis in the future 
Page  2
through increased capabilities, better frames for future surveys, quality maps, and expanded data 
processing facilities. 
 
Different outputs of the project include locality and household lists, maps, sampling frames for future 
surveys, provisional data and cross tabulations, databases at sub-national level, analytical reports, 
population projections, etc. As the project progresses, these outputs will become available in stages. The 
progress of the project will be reflected in the availability of these outputs. The increased capacity of the 
statistical institutions will be reflected in the number of trained personnel available for future statistical 
activities.
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Undertaking a population census in a vast country like Sudan is both complex and expensive. 
Emerging from a prolonged war, Sudan does not have the resources to cover all the cost of the 
census. Moreover Sudan will require technical know-how for implementing the census. MDTF 
involvement is absolutely essential if Sudan has to achieve its development goals. 
 
UNFPA has been identified by CPA as the major partner to the national authorities for the census 
project. While the ownership of the census rests with the government of Sudan, UNFPA is expected 
to provide the technical backstopping, national capacity building and coordination among different 
stakeholders.  
 
4. Description 
 
The project comprises of pre-enumeration activities such as household listing and mapping, training of 
field staff, preparation of questionnaires, enumeration manuals and their finalization etc, enumeration and 
post-enumeration activities such as data entry, editing, processing, tabulation, analysis and evaluation of 
data.  The enumeration will take place throughout the country during a two-week period and will follow 
international standard procedures and practices. Following the enumeration, the data will be processed 
and a database with key census tabulations at the national and state levels and for geographic areas will be 
established. In addition, the results of the census will be disseminated through publications and through 
electronic media. It is expected that the results will be widely used by planners, policy makers, 
humanitarian relief agencies, international organizations and researchers.  
 
5.  Financing     
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 40.7 
SPECIAL FINANCING 
33.0 
 Total 
73.7 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Interim National Constitution (INC) has provided that the census to be completed during the second 
year of the Interim Period that commences on July, 9, 2005, and this would mean that the census should 
be carried in 2007.  The CPA provides a provision that six months before the end of the period referred to 
above, the Parties shall meet and review the feasibility of the dates set out to complete the census.  
Critical factors in the decision about the census date are: the availability of resources, both domestic and 
international, and the ability of the statistical authorities to complete their preparations ahead of the 
census date.  Another important consideration is the rainy season, which can hamper census operations, 
Page  3
particularly in the South.  Given the above factors, the TWG has recommended that enumeration be 
conducted in November 2007. However, this date should be confirmed by the Population Census Council.  
 
The Government of National Unity (GNU) and the Government of South Sudan (GOSS) are both 
responsible for the undertaking of the census. The CBS and the SSCCSE have been mandated to execute 
the census program in the North and the South, respectively. A Presidential Decree will form the legal 
basis for undertaking the census. In the meantime, a census structure will be established to ensure an 
effective, efficient and transparent execution of the census operation.  Various committees, mainly as 
policy organs, will be established at national, state and local levels.  
 
The Director General of CBS is the national Census Controller, with the CEO of the SSCCSE as his 
deputy.  A census structure for the CBS already exists.  This is made up of a census director and deputy 
director with supporting administrative, financial and logistical units. Parallel structures exist at state and 
local government levels.  Currently, there is no such census structure at all in the South. A structure, 
similar to that of CBS, is in the process of being established.  
 
The CBS already started preparation to conduct the fifth population census in 2003.  However, this census 
was rescheduled to be after the signature of the CPA in order to have one national census.  These 
preparations covered the various dimensions of the census operations. However, these are now out of date 
for use in the planned census. The only advantages are the added experience to the CBS staff members 
and the existence of limited census infrastructure.   
 
The SSCCSE in the South has to practically begin preparations from scratch.  This implies that more 
financial and human resources should be deployed for the census operations in the South to make up for 
the capacity gap.   It should be mentioned here that in spite of the fact that there will be two national 
implementing agencies, the same census methodology including concepts, principle, definitions and the 
whole census operation will be applied across the whole country, i.e. both North and South. The census is 
one project to be implemented by two agencies under one institutional structure that combines technical 
and financial resources from GNU and GOSS.  UNFPA is playing the coordinating role to ensure that 
technical standards in this approach is adopted and implemented. 
 
In order to coordinate implementation of the census work between the CBS and the SSCCSE, a 
Population Census Council (PCC) was issued by the President (Presidential Decree No. 2/2006, 
dated January 7, 2006). PCC will be the highest political and decision-making authority that will 
oversee the implementation of the census and its membership will include most key stakeholders 
including representatives of governments at national, Southern Sudan and states levels.  PCC will 
have the following duties and responsibilities: 
1. 
Mobilization of all necessary resources for the census. 
2. 
Overseeing performance and receiving progress reports from the various committees. 
3. 
Endorsement of census questionnaires contents, general census plans and structures. 
4. 
Ensure that all levels of government facilitate the constitutional obligation assigned to CBS and 
SSCCSE in conducting the population census in the country. 
5. 
Approval of overall census budgets. 
6. 
Approval of the final census results. 
 
The council will operate through specialized committees including the Technical Committee, Advocacy 
and Publicity Committee, Financial committee, monitoring and observation.  These committees will 
report to the Council on progress regarding their duties and responsibilities as set forth in Annex II. The 
work of such committees is facilitated by the preparatory work of the Technical Working Group (TWG) 
Page  4
composed of members from the CBS and the SSCCSE with technical backstopping from UNFPA and 
others. 
The CBS and SSCCSE will be the implementing agencies of the population census throughout Sudan.  
Implementation processes will be through a hierarchical structure for each of them that identifies duties 
and responsibilities at all levels of implementation.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability of the project will be ensured by a number of factors including national commitment, donor 
commitment, capacity building, and quality assurance.  National commitment should be reflected through 
legal actions (decrees and formation of census bodies), human, financial, and other resource allocation.  
Donor commitment is reflected through financial resources and providing technical support. National 
capacity development will be central to the various levels of census planning and implementation 
including geographic fieldwork, data collection, data processing, evaluation and analysis of data and 
dissemination of results. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The last census conducted in North Sudan was in 1993.  There is little documentation of the lessons 
learned from that experience.   There are, however, a number of challenges and potential risks that need 
to be taken into account when conducting a census of this magnitude in a country as vast as Sudan. These 
risks and challenges could be avoided if the stakeholders 
–
both the government and the donor 
community – will come forward to meet the commitments made by them during the JAM process and 
Oslo Conference, and the commitment is reflected in the allocation of sufficient resources for the census, 
and the flow of resources is sustained until the census process is completed.  Such risks can become real 
ones if geographical preparations are not carried out according to standard and scientifically recognized 
procedures, and if field quality controls and transparency of fieldwork are not applied. Timely 
implementation by well selected, motivated, properly trained and adequately equipped personnel will 
always bring such risks to minimum.  
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)   
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
X] 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Annex 1:  
Census Technical Manual 
Annex II:  
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Annex III: 
Other Funding Support to the Census 
Annex IV: 
Sudan Census Budget 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Bassam Ramadan 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: 251 11 517-60-00/662-77-00 
Fax: 251 11 662-77-17 
Email: Bramadan@worldbank.org 
Location: Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
