Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2111 
Project Name 
Fifth Population Census of Sudan
 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (65%); Sub-national government 
administration (35%) 
Project ID 
P099327 
Borrower(s) 
Sudan 
Implementing Agency 
The Central Bureau of Statistics; Southern Sudan Centre for Census, 
Statistics and Evaluation. 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
X
]
C
[
]
FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 31, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 5, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
·
Peace, Sustainable Development Planning and Poverty Eradication are the key 
development issues in Sudan after twenty years of war. 
·
More Equitable allocation of resources between regions is another development issue.  
·
Southern Sudan had been in a state of benign neglect for over twenty years, and there is a 
need for the South to catch up with the development of the North.  
·
To identify the vulnerable populations such as internally displaced persons, refugee, 
nomadic population, female headed households, people living in slums and squatter 
settlements etc for mounting poverty alleviation programs by the government and for 
relief, rehabilitation and development efforts of non-governmental organizations. 
 
It is now 12 years since the last population census was carried out in 1993. There is an acute need for 
updated baseline data on demographic and socio economic aspects, and this can be provided only by a 
population census
.
The Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) has emphasized the need for a 
population census as the basis for power sharing, wealth sharing and a more equitable allocation of 
resources. Government strategy is to identify the root causes of under development, and poverty and 
regional disparities and address these causes through sound planning and informed decision making. 
It is expected that the census will provide the basis for implementing the government strategy.  
 
Undertaking a population census in a vast country like Sudan is both complex and expensive. 
Emerging from a prolonged war, Sudan does not have the resources to cover all the costs of the 
census. More over Sudan will require technical know how for implementing the census. MDTF 
involvement is absolutely essential if Sudan has to achieve its development and political goals. 
 
UNFPA has been identified by CPA as the major partner to the national authorities for the census 
project. While the ownership of the census rests with the government of Sudan, UNFPA is expected 
to provide the technical backstopping, national capacity development and coordination among 
different stake holders.  
 
Page  2
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The immediate objective of the Census is to produce reliable and accurate demographic, economic and 
social data that can be used as benchmark for development planning. This project will enable the primary 
target groups- the government, the international development community and the community providing 
humanitarian assistance to have accurate and reliable data to formulate and monitor their plans.  
 
The long-term objective is to develop capacities within Sudan for collection and analysis of data from 
censuses and surveys. The project will result in sustainability of data collection and analysis in the future 
through increased capabilities, better frames for future surveys, quality maps, and expanded data 
processing facilities. 
 
Different outputs of the project include locality and household lists, maps, sampling frames for future 
surveys, provisional data and cross tabulations, data bases at sub national level, analytical reports, 
population projections etc. As the project progresses, these outputs will become available in stages. The 
progress of the project will be reflected in the availability of these outputs. The increased capacity of the 
statistical institutions will be reflected in the number of trained personnel available for future activities.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
A
population census is the total process of collecting, compiling, evaluating, analyzing and publishing or 
otherwise disseminating demographic, economic and social data pertaining, at a specified time, to all 
persons in a country or in a well-delimited part of a country.  The essential features of a population census 
are individual enumeration, universality within a defined territory, simultaneity and defined periodicity. 
 
The population census is the largest data collection undertaking in a country by a government.  Not only 
does it cover the whole country, but it provides information on every person, from the newly born babies 
to the oldest person in the country as well as for nationals and non-nationals. 
 
The census process involves four main phases: Pre-enumeration, Enumeration, Data Processing and 
Dissemination. The 
pre-enumeration phase
 involves the undertaking of various activities, which will 
ensure that the whole population will be covered during the actual census count (enumeration).  These 
activities include: 
 
Planning, this consists of the following key activities: 
 
(i) 
Setting up a census organization structure, including offices, which will oversee the whole 
operation 
(ii) 
Preparing a comprehensive census work-plan 
(iii) 
Preparing a comprehensive budget for the whole census operation 
(iv) 
Having in place a legal basis for undertaking the census 
(v) 
Preparation, testing and finalization of the census tools. These include the questionnaires and 
all the relevant instructions manuals and guidelines. 
(vi) 
Identification and recruitment of the census staff at various levels 
(vii) 
Putting in place a census advocacy and publicity strategy to ensure that both political and 
other leaders as well as the general public are well informed about the census in order for 
them to provide full support and cooperation in the census operation 
(viii) 
Having in place a reliable transport network to facilitate the demarcation exercise and the 
census count as well as other field operations. 
(ix) 
Preparing a training program for all the census field staff. 
 
Page  3
Geographical preparations, which consists of the following key activities: 
 
(i) 
Mapping the whole country and identifying all population settlements 
(ii) 
Delineation of census Enumeration Areas (EAs) in order to ensure complete coverage and to 
avoid over coverage during the census count.  
(iii) 
Listing of dwellings and households in all EAs  
(iv) 
Prepare EA summaries to be used for manpower needs and logistics for enumeration. 
 
The 
enumeration phase
 will include the following activities: 
 
(i) 
Training of all field staff on the process of census enumeration. These include principal 
trainers, trainers, supervisors, interviewers (enumerators) and editors and coders 
(ii) 
Transportation of all census materials to the field. These include the questionnaires 
(iii) 
Allocation and deployment of all the field staff to their respective areas of enumeration 
(iv) 
Actual census enumeration  
(v) 
Collecting and transporting and storing all completed census questionnaires to the place of 
data entry. 
 
The data processing phase will involve: 
 
(i) data 
entry, 
(ii) processing, 
 
(iii) tabulation, 
and 
(iv) analysis 
 
 
Finally the dissemination phase involves the dissemination of the final census results to all and 
sundry from the highest level of the state to local communities and individuals. 
 
The census process will require enormous resources 
–
personnel, materials and equipment, transport, etc.  
For this reason, Government commitment and support is essential. Timely disbursement of resources is 
also essential to ensure adherence to the very tight census schedule of activities. 
 
It has been agreed that the census enumeration will take place from 15 – 30 November 2007.  There is a 
need for quick decisions by the Government and the relevant stakeholders, particularly for the release of 
funds to meet the costs of the pre-enumeration activities. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The Census project will not trigger any safeguard policies that require any special mitigation measures 
under the project. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 59 
SPECIAL FINANCING  
48 
 Total 
107 
 
Page  4
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Bassam Ramadan 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: 251 11 517-60-00/662-77-00,  Fax No. 251 11 662-77-17 
P. O. Box 5515 
Email: Bramadan@worldbank.org 
Location: Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (IBRD)
 
