                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001187



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                (TF-56379 TF-56389 TF-90613 TF-90614)



                                   ON

                  MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND GRANTS

          IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF US DOLLAR 34.4 MILLION

                                 TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

              FOR A FIFTH POPULATION CENSUS PROJECT



                             December 15, 2009




Human Development Group
AFTSP
Africa Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective August 4, 2009)

         Currency Unit = Sudanese Pound (SDG)
                 SDG 1.00 = US$ 0.40
                 US$ 1.00 = SDG 2.50

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1- December 31



         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CBS         Central Bureau of Statistics
CPA          Comprehensive Peace agreement
 EA         Enumeration Area
GONU        Government of National Unity
GOS         Government of Sudan
GOSS        Government of Southern Sudan
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IDPs         Internally Displaced Persons
ISN         Interim Strategy Note
JAM         Joint Assessment Mission
MA          Monitoring Agent
MDTF        Multi Donor Trust Fund
MDG         Millennium Development Goals
MOC         Monitoring and Observation Commission
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organizations
PCC         Population Census Council
SSCCSE      Southern Sudan Centre for Census, Statistics and Evaluation
TWG         Technical Working Group
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNOPS       United Nations Office for Project Services


               Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
            Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi
             Sector Manager: Lynne Sherburne-Benz
         Project Team Leader: Yasser El- Gammal
            ICR Team Leader: Isabel Soares, Willem Struben
                                        REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

                                       Fifth Population Census Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors............... 15
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....... 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 26
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Fifth Population Census
Country:               Sudan                   Project Name:
                                                                         of Sudan
                                                                         TF-56379,TF-
Project ID:            P099327                 L/C/TF Number(s):         56389,TF-90613,TF-
                                                                         90614
ICR Date:              12/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOV. NATIONAL
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:                  UNITY, GOV. SOUTH
                                                                         SUDAN
Original Total
                       USD 34.4M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 34.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 34.1M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 UNFPA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/31/2006   Effectiveness:
Appraisal:             02/05/2006   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/08/2006   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                   12/31/2008        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Moderately Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:



                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      65                  65
Sub-national government administration                                 35                  35


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other human development                                                33                  33
Population and reproductive health                                     34                  34
Social analysis and monitoring                                         33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Kenichi Ohashi                        Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz               Laura Frigenti
                           Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-
Project Team Leader:                                             Bassam Ramadan
                           Gammal
                           Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-
ICR Team Leader:
                           Gammal
ICR Primary Author:        Isabel Cristina Soares


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The immediate objective of the fifth population census is to produce reliable and accurate
demographic, economic, and social data. The long-term objective is to develop capacities
within Sudan for collecting, processing, analyzing, disseminating and utilizing data from
environmental related data that can be used as benchmark for development planning.


                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     No development indicators were developed at appraisal
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     No Intermediate indicators were developed
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                           IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2008            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   34.40
  2     12/23/2008            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            34.40
  3     08/31/2009            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   34.40


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                               iii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Sudan is the largest country in Africa by land area and has rich natural resources,
but its development has been affected severely by conflicts for most of the period since
independence about a half-century ago. Despite the scarcity of recent and reliable data
on poverty across Sudan, it is generally accepted that poverty is widespread and deep.
Preliminary data from the 2006 Sudan Household Health Survey show the disparities
among regions and the enormity of the challenge of reaching the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). For example, net primary school attendance is 53 percent
overall, with variations between states from 90 percent to 4 percent. In the South,
attendance is less than 10 percent in half the states. Health indicators reveal a similar
picture with respect to high variation by state and much poorer conditions in the South.
The outcomes on key measures of human development in Sudan's disadvantaged regions
rank among the lowest in the world, though Khartoum and some Northern states along
the Nile show performance well above the Sub-Saharan Africa average. A root cause of
continuing poverty and inequality is the war and skewed distribution patterns of public
resources, which are considered as among the primary reasons for the war. Recognition
of the need to address inequality to promote peace and stability has risen since the
holding of peace talks, and comprehensive provisions to address inequality run through
the various peace agreements. If their implementation accelerates, there can be a
reasonable expectation of alleviation of poverty, reduction in inequality, and reduced
conflict.

2.      The Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), signed in January 2005 by the
Government of Sudan (GOS) and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement, created a
historic window of opportunity for a peaceful and prosperous country. The CPA not only
provided for a cessation of hostilities, but also contains a framework of wealth and power
sharing to address the inequality between center and periphery that has been a root cause
of conflict in Sudan. The signing was rapidly followed by the formation of the
Government of National Unity (GONU) and the establishment of the Government of
Southern Sudan (GOSS). The elections were initially scheduled for July 2009, but have
been postponed to April 2010.

3.      The CPA specified that two Multi-Donor Trust Funds (MDTFs) -one for GONU
(MDTF-National) and one for GOSS (MDTF-South) - be established to facilitate the
coordination of external donor financing of Sudan's reconstruction and development
needs. The MDTF National (MDTF-N) focuses on consolidating peace and supporting
recovery and development in war-affected and marginalized areas in the 15 Northern
states, while the MDTF-South (MDTF-S) supports the nascent Government of Southern
Sudan (GOSS), and focuses on reconstruction, recovery, and early development in the 10
Southern states. Donors and the government authorities requested the World Bank/IDA to
administer the MDTFs.




                                            1
4.      IDA's financial reengagement in Sudan is awaiting the clearance of Sudan's
outstanding arrears, and IDA's strategy as laid out in an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) was
thus to provide training and other technical support until provision of financial support is
possible.

5.      The conduct of the Fifth Sudan Population Census is one of the key benchmarks
of the CPA, and is specifically provided for in the Interim National Constitution as a
crucial element in preparing for the elections. The conduct of the Population Census is
not only a constitutional obligation, but also a critical exercise to facilitate democratic
governance in Sudan. The Census is also expected to provide a good data base for sector
planning that contributes to the country's social and economic development.

6.       UNFPA was explicitly mentioned in the CPA as the UN agency responsible for
providing both Governments with technical support to conduct the Census. Due to the
Census' highly technical nature and the limited capacity of the two Governments'
statistical institutions, UNFPA was also requested to manage the MDTF projects on
behalf of the Government institutions.

7.     The MDTF projects were to be implemented in two phases: for GONU US$7.1
million and US$12 million in Phase I and Phase II, respectively (TFs 056379 and
090613), and for GOSS US$4 (subsequently raised to 5.3) million and US$10 million for
Phase I and Phase II, respectively (TFs 056389 and 090614).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.      The immediate objective of the Fifth Population Census is to produce reliable and
accurate demographic, economic, and social data. The project was to enable the primary
target groups to have accurate and reliable data to formulate and monitor their plans. The
long-term objective is to develop capacities within Sudan for collecting, processing,
analyzing, disseminating, and utilizing data from censuses and surveys. The project
would result in sustainability of data collection and analysis in the future through
increased capabilities, better frames for future surveys, quality maps, and expanded data
processing facilities, which should help with the implementation of much-needed
household surveys, such as household budget survey, agricultural census, labor force
survey, and annual light monitoring survey of key indicators related to poverty
eradication strategy and MDGs.

9.      This being an emergency technical assistance project, the only agreed key
indicator was the production of timely and technically satisfactory census data.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no changes in the objective and agreed product.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,



                                             2
10.    The main beneficiaries are the GONU and the GOSS agencies, international
development agencies, and international and local community organizations involved in
planning, providing, and monitoring economic and social development assistance. CBS
and SSCCSE have benefited most directly through the provision of new facilities,
equipment, and staff training.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.    The project, over two phases, was to provide equipment and materials needed to
conduct in a timely and satisfactory manner the Fifth Population Census in all of Sudan's
25 states. The Census was organized in four phases: (a) pre-enumeration, (b)
enumeration, (c) data processing, and (d) dissemination. The enumeration would take
place during the period from November 15-30, 2007. For more details see Annex 2, but
the main activities per phase included:

(a) pre-enumeration phase: planning (establishing a census organization structure;
preparing a comprehensive census work plan and budget; having in place a legal basis for
the census; preparing, testing, and finalizing the census tolls; identifying and recruiting
the census staff; putting in place a census advocacy and publicity strategy; having in
place a reliable transport network; and preparing a training program for all the census
staff); as well as geographical preparations (mapping the country and identifying all
population settlements; delineating census enumeration areas (EAs); listing dwellings and
households in all EAs; preparing EA summaries);
 (b) enumeration phase (training of all field staff in the process of census enumeration;
transporting all census materials to the field; allocating and deploying all field staff;
actual census enumeration; and collecting, transporting, and storing all completed census
questionnaires to the place of data entry);
(c) data processing phase (data entry; processing; tabulation; and analysis); and
(d) dissemination phase (launching of results, tabulations, and analytical volumes).

12.    As detailed by component in Annex 2, the initially approved cost was estimated at
US$73.7 million in February 2006, and, based on subsequent field experience, officially
adjusted in June 2007. At that time, taking into account substantial increases in the costs
of planning, census cartography, enumeration, advocacy, vehicles and boats, data
processing equipment, and cartographic equipment, the projected cost was revised to
US$102.9 million, of which about 25 percent was to be paid out of the MDTFs. GONU
was to pay the remainder in cash and kind.

1.6 Revised Components

There were no changes in the agreed components of the census operation.

1.7 Other significant changes

13. Phase I of the MDTF-N and MDTF-S projects was submitted to the respective
oversight committees of the MDTFs in February 2006. These proposals were based on a
total Census cost estimate of US$73.7 million, of which about 2/3 would be for the


                                            3
North and 1/3 for the South1. A total contribution of US$ 11.1 million was initially
approved for both MDTFs: US$7.1 million for MDTF-N and US$4 million for MDTF-
S. An additional US$1.3 million was later added to MDTF-S, thus bringing the total
MDTF contribution to Phase-I to US$12.4 million. Following about a year of experience
in the field with the project's pilot census and the Health Survey (for details, see also
Annex 2), a follow-up appraisal for Phase II showed the need for adjustment of the cost
estimates to a total of US$102.9 million, with MDTF providing an additional US$22.0
million, bringing its total to US$34.4 million. At the same time, GONU's contribution
was to increase from US$40.7 million to US$68.5 million. The details are provided in
the table below:

 Table: Costs and Funding in US$ million
Funding Sources Appraisal (as per 2006) Reappraisal (as per 2007)
GONU               40.7                      68.5
MDTF (North)       20.0                      20.0
MDTF (South)       13.0                      14.4
Total              73.7                     102.9
 Note: Excluding the contributions from bi-lateral sources (see Annex 1).

14. Another important change was the more substantial involvement of UNFPA in
Phase II (see Section 2.2). Whereas during Phase I the government statistics agencies,
CBS and SSCCSE, subcontracted UNOPS for procurement of equipment and vehicles,
as well as the construction of prefabs, following a discussion and agreement between the
GONU and GOSS involved parties, the World Bank and UNFPA, UNFPA directly
managed both the MDTF-N and MDTF-S projects (direct execution modality, DEX).
This decision was based on the outcome of the institutional and fiduciary assessment
conducted by the Bank on the CBS and SSCCSE, which concluded that none of them
had the capacity to administer the project. It was also considered that the CPA
mentioned explicitly UNFPA's technical role in support of the Fifth Population Census.
The Bank kept its monitoring and supervision role as the MDTF's Administrator.

15. Because of a variety of factors- mainly a lack of timely and full GONU payments
(which delayed the pilot census) and delays related to political disagreements (including
a dispute over ethnicity and origin issues in the questionnaire)- the Census activities
eventually slipped from November 15-30, 2007 to April 22- May 6, 2008.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.   The project proposal for Phase I was fully developed by the World Bank, in close
coordination with the GONU and GOSS statistical centers and the GONU Ministry of
Finance and National Economy. The Phase II project proposals were prepared mainly




                                            4
by UNFPA, which has substantial experience with the planning, operation, and
monitoring of census operations, in close coordination with both statistical centers, the
Ministry, and the World Bank. The Bank conducted the project's appraisal, including an
assessment of the fiduciary aspects. The DEX modality agreed upon for Phase II
respected both Governments' full responsibility for Census-related decisions, while
giving UNFPA the responsibility for managing the MDTF funds, including procurement
of goods and services, and for providing the statistical centers with technical support.

17.   Considering the involvement of other donors in the Census in both the North and
the South, bilaterally but mostly through UNFPA, major consultation with all of them
took place at the time of project preparation. Most of these donors are part of the
MDTF, while others (USA in the South and France in both North and South) were also
included in this coordination process.

18. To ensure the highest level of decision making and coordination, a Census
organizational structure was established by a Presidential Decree. The following Census
committees were created: the Population Census Council (PCC), the National Technical
Committee (called Technical Working Group or TWG), the Financial Committee, the
Advocacy and Publicity Committee, and the Monitoring and Observation Committee
(MOC). The Decree also established branches of the PCC in the South and at state
level.

19. The TWG played a major role in the whole process and throughout the Census
phases. Established to provide technical support to CBS and SSCCSE, and to advise the
PCC for decision-making purposes, it was chaired by the Census Controller and Director
of CBS and co-chaired by the Chairman of the SSCCSE, and it included technical staff
from both statistical centers, as well as UNFPA and donor specialists, and World Bank
and bilateral donor representatives. The TWG met every 3-4 months, each time in a
different location, both in the North and the South, this forum was crucial to build
consensus between the North and South, thus decisively contributing to standardization
of technical rules and procedures, as well as to overcome political disagreements.

20. The MOC also played a crucial role by involving not only government
representatives from all 25 states of Sudan, but also representatives of different political
parties, academic institutions, line ministries, and donors. Its major accomplishment
was the recruitment of national and international independent monitors with technical
knowledge in the Census domain, who successfully monitored the enumeration and data
processing phases, thus bringing credibility to the process. Comprehensive and detailed
reports on monitoring activities were produced and disseminated.

21. Finally, a coordination forum was established at the donor level; the Census
Donor Group. This forum was chaired by the EU, and included all donors providing
some kind of support to the Census. UNFPA was often invited to attend this forum's
meetings. Representatives of the CPA Assessment and Evaluation Committee (AEC)
and its members were invited to participate, as well as UN organizations and branches
more directly involved in Census operations.



                                            5
22. The political risks were well identified, and most of them were successfully
handled. From the start, there were disputes between GONU and GOSS, with some of
them still going on today (e.g., the use of the Census priority results for the purpose of
the elections).

23. In hindsight, the only issue which probably should have received some more
attention was whether donor funding should have been provided from the start to deal
with proper staff capacity building. Also in view of limited MDTF funding, the decision
was made that this was a government responsibility. As a result, only some early staff
training was provided by UNOPs, some by other donors, and only towards the end some
more substantial staff training paid with MDTF-funding by UNFPA. The lack of
sufficient up-front staff training turned out to be a constraint.

2.2 Implementation

24. The Phase I grant agreements between the World Bank as the MDTF
administrator and GONU and GOSS were signed on May 8 and April 20, 2006,
respectively. The memoranda of agreement between GONU and GOSS and UNOPS
both were signed on July 22, 2006. Implementation had a slow start, and was affected by
consistently late and incomplete GONU counterpart funding, as well as serious customs
delays for the great variety of equipment, parts, and materials to be imported and
shipped all over the country. About a year later, appraisal of the Phase II activities was
conducted by the World Bank in close coordination with UNFPA, as the agency
responsible for the projects' direct execution, and both governments' statistical centers.
UNFPA substantially strengthened its managerial, technical, procurement, operational,
and fiduciary capacity on the ground in both North and South Sudan to provide not only
technical assistance and training, but also support to all related logistical and operational
activities. The two grant agreements for the second phase for the North and South
operations were signed by the World Bank as the MDTF administrator and UNFPA as
the implementing organization, both on August 13, 2007. The closing date of Phase I
grants was to be December 31, 2007, but was extended for a year to close on December
31, 2008. For Phase II, because of the slippage of census activities- namely the pilot
census and the enumeration- by about half a year, the closing date was extended to June
30, 2009.

25. The World Bank continued to play an active role in monitoring implementation of
the Census projects, and providing technical and fiduciary advice where needed.
MDTF's Monitoring Agent reviewed the project's fiduciary aspects on a regular basis.
Regular supervision missions were conducted by the Bank (quite often during the early
stages of each phase's implementation, as well as during appraisals), which was
complemented by continuous and close follow-up by Bank staff based in Khartoum.
This allowed not only to preview and timely address bottlenecks, but also ensured full
participation of the Bank in the several Census-related forums. Bank fiduciary staff at
the Khartoum office, namely the financial management specialist, provided regular
support on related issues. With regard to procurement, following the general standard
agreement signed between the Bank and the UN (specific to the Sudan MDTFs), the UN
implementing agencies (UNOPS in Phase I and UNFPA in Phase II) followed their own


                                             6
 procurement procedures. Finally, MDTF-National MA provided support in monitoring
 the physical progress of some of the projects' components, as well as in the review and
 clearance of the withdrawal applications, for further documentation purposes by the
 Bank's regional disbursement unit.


2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

 26. The project activities were described in great detail in the annexes to the grant
 agreements, and the implementation schedule had been worked out in similar detail.
 This was monitored closely by all parties concerned: the implementing agencies such as
 UNOPS, UNFPA, CBS, and SSCCSE, and the World Bank on behalf of MDTF (with
 support of the MDTF-contracted MA). Reports on physical progress, as well as on
 fiduciary issues, were submitted by UNOPS and UNFPA on a quarterly basis. However,
 at the beginning, the withdrawal applications were not submitted with the same
 regularity, because the two UN agencies were not yet familiar with the procedures.
 Over time, those submissions became more regular, thus allowing speeding up the
 documentation of expenditures in the Bank system. The regular monitoring and
 coordination between the parties allowed timely and flexible adjustments to the
 activities and funding reallocations.

As also mentioned in Section 3.3, there was no economic evaluation of this exercise.

2.4.Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.     Implementation by UN agencies was foreseen as one of the key channels to
deliver MDTF results. However, the Bank experienced difficulties in reaching consensus
with UN agencies on legal agreements, particularly relating to fraud and corruption, until
a unique Sudan-wide agreement on legal templates was reached on November 10, 2006.
In the case of UNOPS- sub-contracting modality, and before the general framework
agreement for the Sudan MDTFs was agreed upon and signed between the Bank and the
UN- , an external auditor was required. UNOPS has provided its first report, showing an
unqualified opinion for the period through March 31, 2008. The Bank's financial
management specialist at the Khartoum office reviewed the report, and considered it
satisfactory. After a lengthy exchange between UNOPS and the World Bank, and taking
into account the insignificant amounts disbursed between April 1 and December 31,
2008, it was agreed that an additional audit for the remaining nine months of 2008 would
not be needed. As far as UNFPA is concerned, the World Bank accepted that the UN's
own auditing system was sufficient. This was clearly stated in the respective grant
agreements.



28.    Disbursement procedures for the funds underwent a substantial change between
Phase I and II. Whereas UNOPS had to obtain periodic payments from the Bank based
on withdrawal applications, which did lead to occasional delays, also contributed to by
the Bank's strict payment regulations, UNFPA was given full funding up-front. It still


                                               7
provided withdrawal applications, but lack of timely funding was never an issue. This
was a major improvement. It should be noted again that all withdrawal applications were
reviewed by the MA.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

29.     The project strengthened both CBS and SSCCSE with new and improved infrastructure,
ample and the latest equipment, and extensive explicit and implicit staff training, which should
allow those agencies to play a more substantial role in collecting, processing, analyzing,
disseminating, and utilizing data from censuses and surveys. The project was to result in
sustainability of data collection and analysis in the future through increased capabilities,
better frames for future surveys, quality maps, and expanded data processing facilities,
which should help with the implementation of much-needed household surveys, such as a
household budget survey, an agricultural census, a labor force survey, and an annual light
monitoring survey of key indicators related to the poverty eradication strategy and MDGs
(see Section 1.2).

30.     However, it should be noted that, as mentioned above, the project did so far not
fully complete its post-enumeration activities, such as the dissemination of the priority
results in the 15 Northern states and the analysis and dissemination of the 44 questions
from the long questionnaire. This may mean that future activities, such as the recently
started Poverty Survey assisted by the African Development Bank and Norway, may not
have access to critically useful data already collected and ready for analysis. Unless early
corrective action is taken by GONU, GOSS, and donors, there may be a loss of data and
serious duplication of effort.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

31.     Highly Relevant. The simple objective of producing a comprehensive Census
was and still is highly relevant. The Census results will be of critical importance in
providing the governments, donors, and international and local community organizations
with the necessary tools to plan, manage, and monitor their social and economic
development activities, as well as in preparing for the elections scheduled for next year.
Not least important is the fact that the Census was a major element of the agreed program
of nation-wide CPA activities, and should help the various stakeholders decide upon the
division of the proceeds of natural resources, and thus contribute to a lasting peace. As
such, it is also of major importance to the MDTF and IDA assistance strategy, the latter
of which was last spelled out in the ISN of March 2008.

32.     The design of a complex exercise to be carried out in about two years benefited
particularly from substantial input from UNFPA experts, who drew upon their most
recent experience in comparable countries. Implementation too benefited from major
involvement of experienced international organizations, including UNOPS, UNFPA, and
the Bank. In addition, a host of bilateral donor agencies provided substantial planning


                                               8
and implementation support, all of which proved highly relevant to speedy
implementation in a fast and complex work environment.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

33.      Substantial. As mentioned in Section 1.2, the project objective of the Fifth Population
Census was to produce reliable and accurate demographic, economic, and social data.
The project was to enable the primary target groups to have accurate and reliable data to
formulate and monitor their plans. This was substantially achieved. All project cycle
activities- planning, geographic preparation, enumeration, and data processing- were well
carried out, with the slippage in enumeration activities from late-November 2007 to
April-May 2008 probably providing the implementing agencies with some badly needed
breathing time to provide a better product.

34.     It may have taken six months longer than planned, but, given the timeframe and
implementation and political challenges, this was still a major achievement. Throughout
the project cycle, its positive outcome was doubted by many stakeholders, but, by all
standards, on technical grounds, Sudan has carried out its most comprehensive (in terms
of coverage) and accurate Census. On the political front, because of the results'
determining role in wealth sharing, the endorsement of the Census results continues to be
subject to negotiations. Still, in this respect, it is a positive sign that also GOSS has now
accepted the results as a valuable tool for planning purposes.

35.      The long-term objective was to develop capacities within Sudan for collecting,
processing, analyzing, disseminating, and utilizing data from censuses and surveys. The
project would result in sustainability of data collection and analysis in the future through
increased capabilities, better frames for future surveys, quality maps, and expanded data
processing facilities, which should help with the implementation of future surveys. This
too was achieved. A substantial strengthening of facilities, equipment, and staffing has
provided both GONU and GOSS with proper organizations to plan, manage, and monitor
its future surveys and censuses.

36.    Still, as mentioned above, GONU, GOSS, and donors should ensure the full
analysis and dissemination of the remaining 44 questions of the long questionnaire which
should be of particular use for the country's social and economic development planning.

3.3 Efficiency

37.     Moderately Efficient. In view of the emergency technical assistance nature of the
project, no economic and financial analysis was carried out at appraisal, and none was
carried out in the context of writing this ICR. The only possible analysis would have
been to compare the costs of the Sudan exercise with the cost of similar efforts in more or
less comparable countries. However, the number of imponderables with regard to, e.g.,
country logistics, population composition, and census execution would make such
exercise extremely difficult if not impossible. (There are few countries today that face
the communication and infrastructure challenges that South Sudan faces.)



                                               9
38.      Still, despite the satisfactory outcome of the project, it has to be stated that the
cost of the exercise was quite high. Lots of international organizations and specialists
added to such cost. But, with the need for urgent action as one of the basic CPA
activities, and the lack of local capacity in planning, managing, and monitoring such a
massive and complex operation, the major involvement of UNOPS and UNFPA was
unavoidable.

39.     Both of these two organizations faced and overcame major logistical and political
problems. But various complaints about UNOPS did surface. These included leaking
prefab buildings in Khartoum, as well as sophisticated scanners in Rumbek, which were
delivered, but not installed and serviced (until, much later, UNFPA obtained the services
of an international expert, recruited especially for this purpose).

40.    Naturally, it also should be noted that the costs were much affected by the fact
that so many of the necessary implementation organization and activities had to be
duplicated with offices, equipment, and other facilities in both the North and the South.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

41.     Rating: Satisfactory. Given the critical importance of the CPA-prescribed
Census to ensuring a basis for the allocation of resources, as well as to the upcoming
elections, and the major political and logistical challenges facing implementation in a
relatively short time, project completion with only six months slippage is a major
achievement. Following some initial hold-ups, it was effectively executed. Without
comparative data, it is difficult to say anything meaningful on its efficiency, but there is
no doubt that the mandatory speedy implementation without the substantial involvement
of expensive international organizations would not have been feasible. Still, the issue of
the incomplete dissemination, as well as the lack of processing of the long questionnaire
results, is a serious remaining issue requiring immediate GONU, GOSS, and donor
corrective action. The Governments will also have to ensure maintaining the increased
capacity building of their statistical offices.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

42.      The project has provided an as-accurate-as-possible data base to go ahead with the
elections, to help with the allocation of the proceeds of the country's natural resources, as
well as to help plan, manage, and monitor its future social and economic development
activities. It has provided the (so far raw data) basis for a much more reliable picture of
the various aspects of poverty and gender, and will thus continue to be a major instrument
at the disposal of GONU, GOSS, donors, and community development organizations.

(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening

43.     The project has provided for considerable capacity building, mainly in
strengthening CBS and in helping establish SSCCSE, and its various state-based offices.


                                             10
It has provided a multitude of quality facilities, vehicles and equipment, as well as
training in all technical aspects of the project cycle in general and census planning,
management, and monitoring in particular. It has also, through its emphasis on proper
fiduciary procedures, provided additional knowledge on internationally acceptable
financial management and procurement policies and practices. It is now up to CBS and
SSCCSE to maintain the newly acquired knowledge, as well as facilities, equipment, and
staff.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

44.    The project was an essential action under the CPA, and a necessary precursor to
the elections, and this critical importance contributed substantially to promoting
cooperation between relevant officials of GONU and GOSS, especially those dealing
with budgets and Census execution.

45.     The project also contributed, although temporarily, to employment generation and
thus incomes throughout the country.

46.     The most important and unfortunate outcome may well be the recent rejection of
the results by South Sudan's legislature. The Census results, although developed on solid
technical grounds, because of their possible implications for resource sharing, elections,
and the country's political future, are now subjected to a complex political negotiation
process. Still, the even more recent decision by GOSS to accept the Census results "for
planning purposes" is a promising step in the right direction.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N.A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome


47.     Rating: High. The Project Proposal Document for Phase I did not provide a
specific rating, but mentioned (a) possible delays in decision making regarding the date
of the census and implementation timetable, (b) delays in the release of funds for
preparatory activities, (c) mapping, listing and enumeration of special groups, (d)
demining and security concerns, (e) logistical constraints such as poor roads and lack of
transport, (f) scanning for data processing, and (g) decentralization of data processing. In
addition, in separate assessments by the Bank's fiduciary specialists, financial and
procurement risks were rated as high. In hindsight, all of these were addressed properly.

48.     As far as the sustainability of the development outcome, the census data is now
available to all actors in Sudan, is being used and will form the main source of
information to policy makers and donors. The capacity development impact of the
project on both statistical offices ensure the possibility of continuing to build on this
outcome.



                                            11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

49.      Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank, as the MDTF administrator, joined GONU and
UNFPA in preparing the project, focusing much on the fiduciary aspects. Other donors
were consulted as needed. Because of the Bank's lack of technical expertise in the
project subject, as well as serious doubts about the ability of the government agencies to
handle the technical and fiduciary implementation aspects, the Bank insisted that
experienced international agencies be brought in to help execute the project. However,
GOS objected to the high cost involved and UNFPA, the most experienced agency,
objected that it did not have the necessary field presence. Eventually, it was decided to
have the government agencies be officially responsible, with UNOPS handling all
contracting of facilities, procurement of vehicles, equipment, and materials, as well as
some training. In fact, in the South, because of GOSS' complete lack of absorptive
capacity, UNOPS would basically play a turn-key role. The project would continue to
benefit from UNFPA technical advice, as well as support provided by a host of other
donors (see Annex 2). In addition, the MDTF MA would monitor the project's fiduciary
aspects, although mainly financial management. A Project Implementation Manual was
available, and the Bank would provide regular oversight. Keeping in mind the time
pressure of the CPA-mandated project, it was agreed that various project details would
still be worked out during implementation. The above arrangement presented a
reasonable institutional set-up and implementation arrangement that proved to work well
during implementation, particularly during Phase II when UNFPA was handling virtually
the full range of project implementation aspects.

50.    In hindsight, as mentioned above, the Bank should have more carefully
considered whether the governments could and/or would fund the necessary staff
capacity building right from the start; this did become a constraint.

(b) Quality of Supervision

51.    Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank did an excellent job in helping the
various parties overcome technical and implementation issues. A senior officer based in
Khartoum followed up on a day-to-day basis. When needed, the Bank sent supervision
teams on a monthly basis, and it consistently allocated experienced staff. The country
manager was much involved, and provided all necessary budget resources. Sector
management too allocated all necessary staff resources.

52.     The most positive contribution was possibly the country manager's decision to
insist on a re-appraisal before endorsing the start of Phase II of the operation. Based on
that assessment, the Bank insisted again that UNFPA become the executing agency,
which this time was accepted by GONU, GOSS, and UNFPA. UNFPA quickly
established a strong field presence in both Northern and Southern Sudan, and became
fully responsible for all technical aspects of the remaining project cycle. The Bank also



                                           12
helped much in ensuring close donor coordination throughout implementation, and in
helping to reduce political pressure on the international and local technicians.

53.     The establishment of the Census Donor Group was an excellent decision, and this
group worked effectively throughout the process. It ensured enough coordination in
place for the multiplicity of support (both through the MDTF and on a bilateral basis).
The committee also played a crucial role in agreeing amongst donors on common
positions related to a number of situations that came up during implementation.

54.    The decision to disburse the full amounts of the two grants for phase II to UNFPA
up-front helped to avoid any processing delays, and gave UNFPA full flexibility in
conducting its international bidding. Accounting for the funds was not compromised,
since UNFPA provided regular technical and financial reports, and withdrawal
applications were processed to account for the amounts paid.

55.     Bank missions produced regular and detailed aide-memoires and back-to-office
reports, but Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports were only produced as of
mid-2008, when MDTF-funded projects were "mainstreamed".

56.     It also should be noted that the Bank team avoided intervention regarding political
issues. This was the right approach, given the Bank's non-political nature and the fact
that the Census is only one of many issues in the complex set-up of CPA implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

57.     Rating: Satisfactory. This project benefited from both the Bank's management
capacity and its recognition of its relative lack of expertise in census execution. The
Bank's strengths were its ability to put together the strongest possible local and
international implementation agencies, and to help overcome political and technical
frictions through substantial and experienced management and staff input.


5.2 Borrower Performance


a)     Government Performance

58.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. In assessing government performance, one has
to distinguish between GONU and GOSS. In the case of GONU, it remained
commitment to executing the CPA-mandated Census project by (i) agreeing to provide
substantial funding (US$62.1 million) for the nation-wide operation, (ii) making available
its most senior officials to join the PCC and its committees, (iii) helping in establishing
MOC, and convincing all state officials to participate, and, (vi) last but not least,
accepting the UNFPA as the executing agency during Phase II of the operation.
However, obtaining GONU counterpart funding continued to be a slow and time-
consuming process, thus holding up project processing. In fact, GONU stopped making
further contributions following the enumeration activities. Similarly, GONU could have


                                            13
done more to help overcome customs clearance problems, which did cause major delays,
particularly after the enumeration phase. In the case of GOSS, it was a good decision to
acknowledge from the start that it did not have the necessary capacity to implement these
complex activities, and it thus needed comprehensive support from UNOPS and later
UNFPA. It also contributed from its own budget resources US$3.9 million when GONU
did not provide full funding on time. Both governments should be complimented on their
technical cooperation throughout the project cycle.

b)        Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

59.     Rating: Satisfactory. A multitude of agencies were involved. On the GONU
side these were PCC and its committees, as well as CBS. All of these contributed as well
as possible within their many constraints, and, with the technical assistance and training
provided under the project, their performance improved over time. Eventually, MOC
provided a substantial number of international and national observers, and helped endorse
the census results. On the GOSS side, there was only SSCCSE, which was non-existent
at the start of the project. It too built up some capacity over time. All of these agencies
should be complimented on their contribution to the execution of a major and complex
operation, covering all of Sudan during a time of major political frictions.

60.     Although they are not part of the Government, both UNOPS and UNFPA should
be mentioned, since they played major roles in the implementation. During the first
phase, UNOPS processed major contracts for facilities and equipment, for which it was
given very little time. During this phase, UNFPA too played a role as technical advisor,
but this role was very much expanded during the second phase when it took on the main
project technical management role. The performance of both agencies should be rated as
moderately satisfactory during the first phase, and UNFPA's performance should be rated
as highly satisfactory during the second phase.

c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

61.    Rating: Satisfactory. Weighing the complexity of the operation, and the little
time available for its execution in a vast nation which had just gone through a major and
long internal conflict, causing wide-spread political friction, the recipient's overall
performance should be rated as Satisfactory. GONU could have done more to help
overcome budget and customs clearance problems, but this too should be kept in
perspective. Unfortunately, the country's processing capacity is limited.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

     (a) Even though the Census, as part of the CPA, had a lot of political dimensions
         which were not in the Bank's terms of reference and domain of expertise,
         supporting such an important activity can work as long as the focus remains on the
         technical and implementation areas.



                                             14
   (b) Census operations are highly specialized and need major technical support,
       particularly in countries with little relevant expertise and with major logistical and
       political problems.
   (c) UNFPA is the most-qualified international organization to provide technical and
       managerial census support, but its involvement is unavoidably expensive and
       needs major field presence.
   (d) The Bank's decision to allow full payment of the grant up-front provided UNFPA
       with maximum flexibility to carry out speedy procurement.
   (e) The Bank has to dedicate considerable resources to its MDTF administration,
       including the frequent and intensive allocation of experienced technical and
       fiduciary staff, as well as regular country and sector management involvement.
   (f) Although MDTF included a great number of donor members, quite a few
       additional ones were also providing relevant assistance, and had to be consulted
       and informed on a regular basis to ensure that everyone was following the "same
       play book".
   (g) Although MDTF funding was limited and decided to be a government
       responsibility, lack of government funding for proper staff capacity building
       became an issue.
   (h) In countries with two de facto governments, it becomes extra expensive to provide
       both with the necessary offices, equipment, and other facilities.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

N.A.

(b) Co-financiers/Donors

N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N.A.




                                             15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) 1) 2) 3) 4)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)
CBS                                     44.2                52.9                   120
SSCCSE                                  29.5                40.4                   137
            Total Baseline Cost         73.7                93.3                   127
Physical Contingencies
                                           na                  na                  na
Price Contingencies
                                           na                  na                   na
             Total Project Costs           73.7                93.3                127
Project Preparation Costs                  na                  na                  .na
                                           73.7                93.3                127
     Total Financing Required              73.7                93.3                127

1) See Annex 2 for more cost detail.
2) Figures do not include the cost of training and technical assistance activities provided
for by UNFPA, GOSS, and various bilateral agencies in the amount of about $33.0
million (see under (b) below) ,bringing the total cost to about US$126.3 million.
3) Appraisal estimate data reflect the data set out in the Project Proposal Document of
February 16, 2006. The latest cost estimate reflects the estimated repayments of UNOPS
and UNFPA to MDTF of US$0.26 million and about US$ 3 million, respectively.
4) Apart from the provision of temporary and later permanent office accommodation, as
well as the training of 42 staff, UNOPS helped procure 171 trucks and busses, 75
motorcycles, 800 bicycles, an emergency supply fuel tank, 161 computers, 200 GPS
units, 306 radios, as well as cartographic and GIS laboratory equipment, generators, tents,
and office, data processing, IT and other communication equipment. UNFPA also
provided for substantial procurement, amounting to about US$14.8 million. This
included manuals, questionnaires, scanners, software and technical support, stationary
and supplies, vehicles and boats, printing of census forms and training materials, GIS
equipment and supplies, IT equipment and supplies, advocacy equipment, storage
containers, furniture, shelving, fire resistant cabinets, digital cameras, air conditioners, ID
card system, generators, printing of census ID cards, freight, and other services.

(b) Financing 1)3)
                                                     Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                        Type of      Estimate         Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                      Cofinancing      (USD             (USD        Appraisal
                                                     millions) *      millions)
GONU Funding 2)                                       40.70         62.10         153
MDTF for North Sudan 2)                Grant          20.00         18.00         90
MDTF for South Sudan 2)                Grant          13.00         13.20         102



                                                16
1) Appraisal estimate data reflect the data set out in the Project Proposal Document of
February 16, 2006. The latest funding estimates reflect the data set out in the Phase II
Project Proposal Document of June 26, 2007, minus the originally projected US$6.4
million which GONU did not provide, as well as the amounts which UNOPS and
UNFPA are projected to pay back to MDTF.
2) It should be noted that the GONU contribution could never be fully certified. Much
was in kind or for the payment of wages, and its documentation was not fully verifiable.
3) Excluding the contributions from GoNU:

GOSS                             US$3.9 million
DANIDA                           US$6.4 million
EU                               US$4.8 million
UNFPA (own funding)              US$1.8 million
USAID                            US$8.0 million
French Cooperation               US$2.5 million
CEDEJ (EU)                       US$0.2 million
Netherlands                      US$0.2 million
DFID                             US$5.3 million

Total Additional                 US$33.0 million




                                           17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1      The project was to provide for the production of a timely and satisfactory
Population Census, the production of which would involve four phases: (a) pre-
enumeration, (b) enumeration, (c) data processing, and (d) dissemination. These included:

(a.1) planning (establishing a census organization structure, including offices, which
would oversee the whole operation; preparing a comprehensive census work plan;
preparing a comprehensive budget for the whole census operation; having in place a legal
basis for the census; preparing, testing, and finalizing the census tools, including the
questionnaires and all the relevant instruction materials and guidelines; identifying and
recruiting the census staff at various levels; putting in place a census advocacy and
publicity strategy to ensure that both political and other leaders, as well as the general
public, are well-informed about the census in order for them to provide full support and
cooperation in the census operation; having in place a reliable transport network to
facilitate the demarcation exercise and the census count, as well as other field operations;
and preparing a training program for all the census field staff);
(a.2) geographical preparations (mapping the country and identifying all population
settlements; delineating census enumeration areas (EAs) to ensure complete coverage and
to avoid over-coverage during the census count; listing dwellings and households in all
EAs; and preparing EA summaries to be used for manpower needs and logistics for
enumeration);
(b) enumeration (training of all field staff in the process of census enumeration,
including principal trainers, trainers, supervisors, interviewers, and editors and coders;
transporting of all census materials to the field, including the questionnaires; allocating
and deploying all field staff to their respective areas of enumeration; actual census
enumeration; and collecting, transporting, and storing all completed census
questionnaires to the place of data entry);
(c) data processing ( data entry; processing; tabulation; and analysis); and
(d) dissemination (launching of results, tabulations, and analytical volumes).

2.     All of these activities were carried out, although, at this stage, the latter only
partially. In addition, the critically important processing of the extra 44 questions of the
long questionnaire is not completed yet

The proposed schedule of activities was:

   1. Preparatory

Legal, organizational,         September 2005                 October 2007
fundraising
Geographic preparation-        January 2006                   September 2007
listing, mapping
Demarcation of EAs and         January 2006                   September 2007
house numbering
Preparation of census tools    September 2005                 March 2007


                                            18
Institutional arrangements    September 2005      August 2007
and logistical preparations
Advocacy                      September 2005      December 2008
Pilot census incl. pre-test   November 15, 2006   November 30, 2006
Finalization of census        December 2006       June 2007
enumeration plans
Procurement of census         January 2006        September 2007
equipment and materials
Procurement of                January 2007        September 2007
enumeration supplies
Establishment of 9 data       September 2006      September 2007
processing centers
Distribution of supplies      September 2007      November 2007


   2. Census Enumeration


Recruitment of field staff    July 2007           September 2007
Training of field staff       September 2007      November 2007
Assignment of tasks and       November 2007       November 2007
deployment of field staff
Census field enumeration      November 15, 2007   November 30, 2007
Retrieval and storage of      December 2007       December 2007
questionnaires from field

   3. Data Processing


Recruitment of data           September 2007      October 2007
processing staff
Training of data              November 2007       December 2007
processing staff
Processing of short           December 2007       February 2008
questionnaire and
production of tables
Processing of long            March 2008          July 2008
questionnaire and
production of tables
Production of fact sheets     August 2008         December 2008
and flyers
Preparation of analytical     August 2008         December 2008
volumes




                                           19
   4. Dissemination


National launching of results from      January 2008            January 2008
short questionnaire
State launching of results from short   February 2008           February 2008
questionnaire
Launching of state tabulations          March 2008              August 2008
Launching of analytical volumes         December 2008           December 2008
Launching of fact sheets                August 2008             December 2008
and flyers



5.     The implementation schedule slipped because of various factors, mainly related to
lack of absorptive capacity on the part of the CBS and SSCCSE, late budget
contributions by GONU, and the need for time-consuming decisions of a political
nature, explained in more detail in the main text. Still, the enumeration activities took
place from April 22-May 6, 2008, and the results came out in early-2009, a remarkable
performance.
6.     The costs (in US$ million) were initially estimated at US$73.7 million, but were
adjusted to US$102.9 million in mid-2007 during the appraisal of the Phase II proposal:

   Activity                                          Feb. 2006       June 2007

   1. planning                                          2.4             6.3
   2. census cartography                               14.3            17.1
   3. enumeration                                      28.6            43.5
   4. data processing                                   4.2            4.2
   5. final results                                     1.2            1.2
   6. dissemination                                      1.5            1.5
   7. advocacy                                           1.0           5.4
   8. vehicles and transportation                       11.3           16.3
   9. data processing equipment                          4.0            2.7
   10. cartographic equipment                            2.5            1.9
   11. other equipment                                    0.2           0.2
   12. capacity building (UNFPA-funded)                    -             -
   13. project management                                 2.4           2.4

   Total                                                73.7           102.9

   These were initially projected to be spent (in US$ million) in the North (CBS) and
   South (SSCCSE) as follows:



                                          20
                       2006        2007      2008          Total

   CBS                  15.3       25.2           3.8       44.2

   SSCCSE               10.1        16.7          2.7        29.5

   Total                25.4        41.9          6.5        73.7

   The adjustment in June 2007, in the context of the appraisal of the Phase II Proposal,
   resulted in a different allocation (in US$ million):

                        2006         2007         2008       Total

   CBS                  15.9          23.0          19.3            58.2

   SSCCSE               10.8          21.0          12.9           44.7

   Total                26.7          44.0          32.2           102.9

7.      The initial appraisal cost estimates came from UNFPA, which used its experience
with similar efforts in comparable countries, as well as in Northern Sudan. However,
subsequent experience in the field, especially for the SSCCSE as it tried to recruit
personnel for field mapping, as well as experience with the implementation of the Sudan
Family Health Survey, showed the need for substantial cost adjustments. The most
important increases can be attributed to more expensive statistical offices, the operation
of the PPC and its committees, the acquisition of satellite imagery and base maps, aircraft
rentals, vehicle and boat purchase and fuel and maintenance, media and advocacy, the
rate of payment for training and enumeration and the provision of accommodation during
training, and the printing of census documents and the production of enumeration
materials.
8.      As of the time of this report, the actual costs amounted to US$93.3 million, of
which US$52.9 million can be attributed to CBS and US$40.4 million to SSCCSE. Some
additional cost can be expected to be made in CY09 for the dissemination of the Fifth
Population Census Priority Results, as well as for the processing of the 44 remaining
questions of the long questionnaire, but further MDTF funding was cut off on June 30,
2009.
9.      It is noteworthy that these costs exclude the substantial cost of training and
technical support funded by UNFPA itself, by GOSS, as well as by a great number of bi-
lateral donors. A detailed description of those donors is given in Annex 1, but it
amounted to an extra US$33.0 million, bringing the total cost of the Fifth Population
Census Project to US$126.3 million. It also should be noted that the GONU contribution
could never be fully certified. Much was in kind or the payment of wages, and its
documentation was not fully reliable. Still, it should be noted that GONU funded much
more than half of the total project cost.




                                             21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1.      In view of the emergency technical assistance nature of the project, no economic
and financial analysis was carried out at appraisal, and none was carried out in the
context of writing this ICR. The only possible analysis would have been to compare the
costs of the Sudan exercise with the cost of similar efforts in more or less comparable
countries. However, the number of imponderables with regard to, e.g., country logistics,
population composition, and census execution would make this exercise extremely
difficult if not impossible.




                                          22
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Bassam Ramadan            Lead Operations Officer            AFTH3 TTL
                          Sr. Financial Management
Nestor Koffi                                                 AFTFM
                          Specialist
Selma Siddig
Supervision/ICR
Isabel Cristina Soares    Consultant                         AFTSP
Mohamed Yehia             Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM
Yasser El-Gammal          Senior Operations Officer          AFTSP


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                                           8.30                     50.00
                          Total:                 8.30                   50.00
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                         12.3                     115.00
 FY08                                          8.70                      55.00
  FY09                                          3.07                     15.00
                          Total:             24.07                     185.00




                                          23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N.A.




                                      24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N.A.




                                   25
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     In the absence of official feed-back from either CBS or SSCCSE, this ICR will
quote some of the comments mentioned in the report submitted by the Chairman of
the MOC in April 2009. This report assessed the adequacy of plans, operations, and
management of the Census.
2.     The Census was scheduled to be conducted at the most two years after signing
of the CPA. This would have been September of 2007, which was postponed to
November of 2007. Eventually, the Census took place in April 2008. November was
not achievable because financing of the Census was not finalized, and the necessary
logistical and administrative structures were not in place. Since the decision on the
timing of the Census came late, this meant that the printing and delivery of materials
had to be done under an unhealthy time pressure. Part of the reason why Sudan was
able to deliver the materials under such circumstances was because the country has a
UN infrastructure that is geared up for emergency and relief, and another part is the
shear will to succeed that drives national mobilization of this nature.
3.     The 2008 Census incorporated several innovative technical approaches, and
was a major departure from previous censuses in that the South participated fully in
the undertaking.
4.     Although the timing slipped, the extended period allowed the technical staff to
sharpen their implementation tools. Cartographic work benefited tremendously as a
lot of field work was yet to be done. Other preparation activities too benefited. The
extension was a blessing in disguise, and was quietly welcomed as it allowed all the
final touches to be made in readiness for the enumeration phase.
5.     Local language proficiency can make or break an operation such as a Census.
In Sudan, it is estimated that 92.4 percent of the enumerators spoke the language of
their assigned areas.
6.     For Sudan to have executed the Census, and finalized the processing of data by
December 2008, is nothing short of a miracle. There seemed to be insurmountable
problems at each stage. By the beginning of 2007, the state offices were not
contracted, funds were not fully secured, and the ambitious external independent
monitoring group was being contracted, but arrangements were not fully finalized.
Cartographic work was continuing, especially in the South. The date of the Census
was yet to be announced when there were only 3-4 months remaining to April 2009.
Given the explicit political purpose to which the Census results were to be put,
technical navigation of the Census process was intractable, and at all stages required
politically savvy interventions to succeed.




                                         26
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



   a. UNOPS submitted an ICR on its support to CBS and SSCCSE on the
      procurement of assets, construction of infrastructure, and capacity building, in
      accordance with Memoranda of Agreement signed on July 22, 2006. Its
      support was completed by the end of 2008, the closing date of MDTF's Phase
      I grants to GONU and GOSS. Of those grants, US$7.1 million was spent in the
      North and US$5.3 million in the South. Support in the North consisted of
      assisting existing GONU agencies in carrying out their responsibilities, but
      support in the South was more comprehensive because of its more serious
      capacity constraints. Apart from support for procurement, construction, and
      training, UNOPS later also provided support for the mapping exercises in the
      North and South. Implementation was affected by slow customs clearance (in
      some cases taking months to clear cargo), poor roads, insecurity, a disabling
      wet season, poor communications, and high cost of delivery, as well as the
      lack of capacity of SSCCSE to properly receive and manage assets.
      Implementation was also affected by insufficient and late counterpart funding
      of the costs of operational support, logistics, delivery, security, money
      transfer, warehousing, and capacity building. Still, apart from leaving
      substantial amounts of hardware, UNOPS contributed to training of staff in
      logistics, finance, radio operation, and boat operation, which can now be
      applied elsewhere. The ICR concludes by mentioning three lessons learnt: (a)
      following years of conflict and thus strong feelings of independence on the
      part of the recipients, donors have to compromise between "regular" and "less
      regular" approaches to operational implementation; (b) there should have been
      an early identification of possible choke points in the supply chain (customs
      clearance in this case), and corrective government action should have been
      taken; and (c) counterpart participation requires time for staff capacity
      building, and thus sufficient local staff time and budget.



   b. UNFPA completed an initial draft ICR on July 6, 2009. GONU and GOSS
      recognized the leading role of UNFPA technical support and resource
      mobilization for censuses, and stipulated UNFPA in the CPA as the only
      agency to provide technical support to both CBS and SSCCSE. During
      PHASE I, UNFPA mobilized resources from the European Union, DANIDA,
      DFID, The Netherlands, and French Cooperation, as well as its own resources,
      for technical, logistics, and monitoring support. Technical support consisted
      of:
          (a) Support to CBS and SSCCSE with international and national staff
              providing advocacy, demographic, cartographic, data processing,
              analysis, and dissemination support;


                                         27
            (b) Serving as secretariat for the meetings of the Technical Working
                Group, which included CBS and SSCCSE staff and technical advisors
                from the US Census Bureau, US Department of Agriculture, Bearing
                Point, Statistics Norway, DFID, and French Cooperation; and
            (c) Training of CBS and SSCCSE staff in census procedures and
                management.



1.      During Phase II, technical support consisted of:

     (a) procurement of cartographic, enumeration, data processing, analysis, and
         dissemination materials funded by MDTF;
     (b) support to MOC funded by the European Union and DFID to recruit
         international and national monitors; and
     (c) coordination of logistics support provided by the UN organizations in Sudan
         for storage, repacking, distribution, and retrieval of enumeration materials.

2.     Due to this major effort, there was a remarkable enumeration coverage for the
whole country (94.7 percent), including 89.9 percent for South Sudan. Data
processing started in earnest at the CBS in Khartoum in August 2008 and at the
SSCCSE in the South in September 2008. The data sets from North and South
Sudan were finally merged over a three-week period at the data processing center in
Khartoum, and the tabulations for the "priority results" produced and presented to
the Technical Working Group meeting on February 16, 2009. However, this then
resulted in major discussions on the data for Darfur, nomads, and Southerners on
Northern Sudan. After further review, the results were submitted to the PCC, and
endorsed by the PCC on April 26, 2009. The CBS then officially released the results
on May 6 and the SSCCSE on June 6, 2009.



3.      By the closing date of the project, all procurement had been completed as
initially agreed, except for the production, distribution, and dissemination of the
"priority results", which were only partially implemented because of delays in
government approval of the census results. In addition, data processing personnel
were supported at the data processing centers in Khartoum and Rumbek over the
period September 2008-June 2009 through the payment of salaries and transport,
facilities rental, electricity costs, and fuel for a generator.




4.    Delays in the delivery of goods were caused by (i) wrangling over census
questions like ethnicity, religion, state/county of usual residence, and the quantities


                                           28
to be distributed to North and South Sudan, which caused a slippage in questionnaire
production by at least two months; (ii) hold-ups in custom and tax clearance; and (iii)
the initial lack of warehouse facilities by the CBS in Khartoum.



5.    The ICR concludes by mentioning four lessons learnt: (a) recognition and
acceptance of operational boundaries in the implementation of a project with two
partners who fiercely guard their independence, (b) importance of diplomacy to
avoid the impression of favoritism, (c) importance of providing the entire amount for
a time-bound project like the census up-front to avoid funding delays, and (d) despite
need for training and thus delays, use of national counterparts is essential to ensure
project sustainability.




                                         29
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   -   Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Sudan, November 6, 2007 (draft),
       IDA
   -   Project Proposal Document for a proposed grant in the amount of US$33.0
       million to the Government of National Unity and the Government of South
       Sudan for the Fifth Population Census of Sudan, CBS, SSCCSE, February 16,
       2006
   -   Project Proposal Document for a proposed grant for Phase II in the amount of
       US$22 million to the Government of National Unity and the Government of
       South Sudan for the Fifth Population Census of Sudan, CBS, SSCCSE, June
       26, 2007
   -   Fifth Population Census Project, MDTF-NS Grant No. 56379, May 8, 2006
   -   Fifth Population Census Project, MDTF-SS Grant No. 56389, April 20, 2006
   -   Memorandum of Agreement between GONU and UNOPS, July 22, 2006
   -   Memorandum of Agreement between GOSS and UNOPS, July 22, 2006
   -   MDTF-NS Grant for the Fifth Population Census Project, No. 90613, August
       13, 2007
   -   MDTF-SS Grant for the Fifth Population Census Project, No. 90614, August
       13, 2007
   -   Letter Agreement between IDA and UNFPA, August 13, 2007
   -   Interim Oversight Committee Meeting, Minutes of February 26, 2006
   -   Joint Oversight Committee Meeting, Minutes of July 22, 2007
   -   2008 Sudan population and housing census funding, coordination, technical
       and logistics support, UNFPA, February 25, 2009
   -   Lessons for conflict resolution and post-conflict resolution: The case of the 5th
       population census of the Sudan, Pali Lehohla, February 25, 2009
   -   5th Sudan Population and Housing Census 2008, Priority results submitted to
       the Population Census Council by the Technical Working Group, April 8,
       2009
   -   Report on the 5th Population and Housing Census of the Sudan, MOC
       Chairman, April 2009
   -   Implementation Completion Report, Census Support Projects, UNOPS
   -   Implementation Completion Report (draft), Census Support Projects, UNFPA
   -   "Southern Sudan Census Official Results", presentation by Isaiah Chol
   -   "Resolution No 02/2009, Rejection of the 5th Sudan Population and Housing
       Census, 2008", Southern Sudan Legislative Assembly, Juba, July 2, 2009




                                          30
Map of the Republic of the Sudan




              31
