Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20238
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3604-BR)
May 31, 2000
Brazil Country Management Unit
Human and Social Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currenicy Unit: Real (R$)
NEBE II Currency UJnit at Appraisal: Cruzeiro
Rate at Appraisal: US$1.00 = Cr$ 3789.9
Rate at Completion: US$1.00 = R$1.71
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMETs  Annual Management Efficiency Targets
DGPN    Dire,do Geral do Projeto Nordeste, Northeast Project Coordination Unit
FAE      Fundacdo de Assistencia ao Estudante, Student Assistance Fund
FNDE    Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educaq,do, National Education Development Fund
FUNDEF  Fundo de Desenvolvimento e Manutencado do Ensino Fundamental e Valorizacao do
Magisterio, Fund for the Maintenance and Development of Fundamental Education and the
Valorization of Teachers
INEP    National Institute for Educational Research and Studies
NEBE    Northeast Basic Education Project
MEC      Brazilian Ministry of Education
PDE      Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola, School Development Plan
PIIEM    Programa Integrado de Investimentos Estado-Municipio, State-Municipal Integrated Project
Investment Plan
PNLD    Programa Nacional do Livro Didatico, National Textbook Program
PPO      Programa de Pesquisa e Operacionalizaqdo de Politicas Educacionais, Operational Research
Program
PRASEM Programa de Apoio aos Secretarias Mlunicipais de Educacdo, Program of Support for the
Municipal Education Secretaries
PTA      Plano de Trabalho Anual, Annual Work Plan
SAEB    Sistema Nacional de Availiaqdo da Educacao Bdsica, National System for Basic Education
Evaluation
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SEF      Secretaria de Educacdo Fundamental., Fundamental Cycle Education Secretariat
SIIG     Sistema Integrado de Informacoes Gerenciais, Integrated Management Information System
SPA      Sistema de Planejamento e Acompanhamento, Planning and Monitoring System
UNDP   United Nations Development Programi
UNESP   Unidade Nacional Encarregada de Szuporte ao Projeto, National Project Support Unit
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:  Jamil Salmi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Robin S. Horn



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction
A. Project Data .............................................................1
B.  Principal Performance Ratings ............................................................1I
C. Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry ................ 2
D. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs .............................................................                       6
E.  Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ............................................. 15
F.  Sustainability ............................................................                                             18
G. Bank and Borrower Performance ......................                             ...................................... 19
H. Lessons Learned ............................................................ 21
I.   Partner Comments ............................................................                                          23
J.   Additional Information ............................................................                                   24
K.  Annexes ............................................................ 24
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1. Comparison of 1995 and  1997 SAEB  Results, Northeast and Brazil ..........                                    ........ 7
Table 2. Student Flows for the Northeast States, 1995-98 .................................................7
Table 3. Fourth and Eighth Grade Completion Rates 1995-98 ..........................................8
Table 4. State and Municipal Classrooms Constructed, Renovated and/or Expanded .... 12
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1. Fundamental Cycle Net Enrollment Rates, Northeast and Brazil, 1981-98 ....... 9
Figure 2. Project Disbursement, Estimated and Actual FY1994 to FY2000 ..........                                      ......... 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






INTRODUCTION
1. This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Northeast Basic
Education Project, for which Loan 3604-BR in the amount of US$212 million was
approved by the Board on May 13, 1993, and became effective on February 8, 1994.
2. The project was prepared in conjunction with the Third Northeast Basic Education
Project, Loan 3663-BR in the amount of US$206.6 million, which was approved by the
Board on November 23, 1993 and became effective on May 27, 1994.
3. Together the projects attended to nine Northeast states: NEBE II included the states
of Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco and Sergipe, while NEBE III included the states of
Alagoas, Bahia, Paraiba, Piaui and Rio Grande de Norte. At appraisal for NEBE II, the
states were divided into two separate projects. Criteria for inclusion in NEBE II, as
stated in the SAR, included the quality of the five year investment plans and assessed
commitment to implementing major reforms of state administration.
4. Project objectives and components for NEBE II and III were nearly identical. From
the outset, the Ministry of Education has considered the NEBE projects, known as
Projeto Nordeste, as a single program, managed by a single project coordination unit. In
fulfilling the requirements for project completion, the Borrower has submitted a single
Borrower Completion Report (BCR), found in the project files. For Bank purposes, we
have separated what would logically be one Implementation Completion Report into two
documents. The text and analysis presented are nearly identical, however the Bank tables
presented in the Annexes are divided by project. Furthermore, this report highlights the
principal points described in the BCR. Consequently, inclusion of the BCR Executive
Summary was deemed unnecessary.
5. The ICR was prepared in close cooperation with the Brazilian BCR preparation team,
composed of Antonio Augusto de Almeida Neto (MEC), Maria Luiza Silveira
(Consultant) and Sergei Soares (IPEA). For the Bank team, Amber Gove (Consultant)
was the primary author, with contributions from and supervision by Kate Hovde
(Consultant) and Robin Horn (LCSHD). During preparation, project teams from state
and national levels, including former secretaries of education and project managers
(nearly 200 people in all), were systematically consulted regarding project
implementation, output and outcomes.






NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
A. PROJECT DATA
Name: Northeast Basic Education II         L/C Number: 36040
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                  Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/Subsector: EP - Primary Education
NEBE II KEY DATES                Original                  Revised/Actual
PCD:            08/22/1986                   08/22/1986
Appraisal:          06/28/1992                   07/15/1992
Approval:           05/13/1993                   05/13/1993
Effectiveness:         11/24/1993                   02/08/1994
MTR:            10/30/1996                   10/30/1996
Closing:          06/30/1998                   06/30/1999
Borrower:                     Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:                    Ministry of Education (MEC)
Participating States--NEBE HI             Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco, Sergipe
STAFF                              Current                           At Appraisal
Vice President:               David de Ferranti                     Shahid Husain
Country Manager:              Gobind T. Nankani                    Armeane Choksi
Sector Manager:                  Jamil Salmi                         K.Y. Amoako
Team Leader at ICR:              Robin Horn                         Barbara Bruns
ICR Primary Author:              Amber Gove
B. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome:        Satisfactory
Sustainability:     Likely
Bank Performance:        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:       Satisfactory
QAG (if available)                  ICR
Quality at Entry:     N/A                              Unsatisfactory
Project at Risk at Any Time:    Yes



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
C. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN AND OF QUALITY AT
ENTRY
1. Objectives. As defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objective of the
project was to: increase student learning, reduce repetition and dropout, and increase
graduation rates in the participating states, through improvements in the quality of state
and municipal basic education and in the efficiency of education management.' This
objective was to be achieved through the provision of a package of essential educational
inputs to all public school children in the first four (after revision, eight) grades in the
project states, and would support improvements in the efficiency of education
management at state and national levels.2
2. The project objectives were consistent and relevant, although not stated as specific
targets. Objectives were consistent with the prevailing ideas of the time, both from a Bank
and government standpoint. The project was conceived in a context of remarkable change
in the Brazilian education system, which grew at a rapid rate throughout the 1980s. By
project signing, net enrollment rates had expanded to 85 percent for the Northeast, up from
60 percent a decade earlier. However, nearly two-thirds of Brazilian children did not
complete the eight years of the fundamental cycle, and 80 percent of children had repeated
at least once. Given this reality, the project emphasized improving quality of education,
although some expansion of access is implicit within the school facilities component. The
selection of the Northeast was, and continues to be, an appropriate region for investment,
given high poverty and low education attainment levels.
3. Original Components. The Total lProject Costs of NEBE II were estimated to be
US$378.6 million, of which US$212 million was loan. NEBE II consisted of a state-
level program (97 percent of project costs) to be executed by the four project states, and a
national program (3 percent of project costs) to be executed by the Ministry of Education.
The State-level program was comprised of five components:
*  Education Management (5. 7 percent of Base Costs) intended to help states
streamline their education bureaucracies and achieve a more efficient allocation
of spending;
*  Education Materials (31.5 percent of Base Costs) aimed to increase state and
municipal primary school students' access to textbooks, workbooks, reading
books, and other instructional materials;
*  Teacher Training (7.9 percent of Base Costs) supported training to improve
the skills and classroom effectiveness of state and municipal primary teachers
as well as the management skills of school directors;
'Basic education, as originally defined in the loan agreement for both the Northeast projects referred to
grades 1-4. At project revision the focus was expanded to grades 1-8, which will be referred to in this
report as fundamental education or the fundamental cycle.
2 The project objectives as stated in the respective SARs differ slightly, however, the loan agreements
present identical objectives.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                    3
* Time Slice Financing (50.6 percent of Base Costs) would finance, on a
matching basis, a time-slice of state and municipal five year school renovation
and construction programs, conditional upon state progress in implementing
agreed management reforms; and
* Innovations Fund (1.3 percent of Base Costs) would support, evaluate and
disseminate innovative programs proposed by the project states and
municipalities to improve education quality.
4. The National Program (3.0 percent of Base Costs) was comprised of four sub-
components, as follows:
* Educational Evaluation (1.5 percent of Base Costs) aimed to build national
capacity for: i) carrying out systematic evaluation of student achievement,
school effectiveness and system productivity; ii) analyzing, interpreting and
disseminating the findings; and iii) translating the resulting knowledge into
policies, strategies and actions aimed at improving public basic education in
Brazil.
a Policy Analysis (0.4 percent of Base Costs) supported the institutional
development of MEC/SEF (Fundamental Cycle Education Secretariat) through
the financing of grants for applied research and studies of basic education.
* Education Planning and Management (0.9 percent of Base Costs) aimed to
help MEC/SEF become more efficient through the financing of: consulting
assistance, integrated data management systems, creation of a project support
unit, and management training.
* Reform of the Textbook and School Lunch Programs (0.3 percent of Base
Costs) supported a major study for alternative financing mechanisms for the
national textbook program, in order to assure timely and adequate availability
of learning materials in state and municipal primary schools throughout Brazil,
and more efficient provision of school lunches.
5. Assessment of Project Design. The overall assessment of the design of the original
project is mixed. Positive aspects include the incorporation of lessons derived from prior
Bank experience in implementing Edurural (Loan 1867-BR) and the Monhangara Project
(Loan 2412-BR) including:
* provision of textbooks and the improvement of school infrastructure as highly
efficient education investments;
*  recognition of the value of in-service teacher training programs investments
versus small content-based training programs; and
* efforts to improve education management at all levels of government and
particularly state-municipal coordination.
6. One of the most innovative, and contested, design aspects was the link between
investment in school facilities and improvements in management. During project
preparation, each of the nine state governments were the subject of a study (financed by a



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                                  4
Japanese Grant of US$1.4 million) whose objective was to evaluate the efficiency of the
education secretariats, identifying problems, management difficulties and suggestions for
improvement.3 The resulting studies indicated weaknesses in the processing of
information, organizational structure, administrative systems and planning as well as high
levels of overstaffing. Missing from these reports (and from the project design), however,
are concrete steps, tools and incentives for improving the situation. The Bank instead
relied on a more sectoral adjustment approach in linking improvement of management to
investments in the school facilities component.
7. As a condition for disbursements for the Time Slice (school facilities) component, a
state was required to meet their Annual Management Efficiency Targets (AMETs), a set
of indicators that included the ratio of students to education employees (staffing ratio)
and the proportion of education funds used for purchasing consumable materials for the
school system (materials ratio). In practice, the AMETs indicators were difficult to
measure and did not reflect true improvements in management efficiency. In fact, the
targets themselves were almost immediately exceeded by all states during continued
strong expansion of enrollments.4 Despite these difficulties, the AMETs were never
formally eliminated from the project, but merely tacitly ignored by both the Bank and the
Borrower.
8. The SAR's emphasis on improving efficiency of management at the state secretariat
level was not matched in MEC project clocuments. It is telling that the phrase "improving
efficiency of education management" is not included in the project objective in the
principal document in Portuguese distributed among project states.5 Despite this
divergence in the overall objective, project activities in the MEC document related to
improving efficiency are actually more ambitious; MEC proposes improving
management efficiency at all levels, including the school. Nonetheless, both the Bank
and the Borrower documents fail to provide concrete steps for improving management.
Furthermore, given the assessment of the weak management capacity of the states, it was
clearly a high risk strategy to allocate 97 percent of project funds to state level
implementation. Focus of project activities on grades 1-4 also did not take into account
the organizational structure of the education system which groups grades 1-8 as the
fundamental cycle.6
9. Based on lessons leamed from Monhangara, the issue of poor municipal-state
coordination was to be addressed mainly through the creation of a State-Municipal
Integrated Project Investment Plan (PIIEM). States were required to prepare this plan
early in the preparation process; however, the plan was not updated at appraisal nor was it
used thereafter. In implementing the school facilities component, states were to sub-
3 "o Processo Educacional no Nordeste." UNICEF, CENPEC, KPMG, Arthur Andersen, 1992.
4 The main problems of measurement related to staffing numbers. Secretariats were notorious for their
inability to track information within their own edtucation systems; most did not maintain a single database
for payroll and personnel, and definitions of "stafl' varied widely both within and across states (some
included interns and part time staff, others included retired personnel).
5 "Documento BAsico: Projeto de Educacao BAsica para o Nordeste." MEC, 1994.
6Within MEC and state secretariats, administrative divisions treat grades 1-8 collectively as "fundamental
education." At the school level, many municipal schools serve only grades 1-4, while many state schools
serve grades 1-8.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                     5
contract to municipalities the responsibility for undertaking local civil works. In practice,
this mechanism was eliminated at restructuring due to issues of non-compliance with
laws regulating federal transfers of funds. For reasons of poor accounting or
discrepancies in spending, at any time under the project from one to two-thirds of
Northeast municipalities were declared non-compliant. When any single municipality in
a state was unable to certify how it spent federal funds advanced to it by the state
secretariat, the entire state became non-compliant, prohibiting further transfer of project
funds until the issue was resolved.
10. In situating the management of the project within the regular structure of the Ministry
of Education, defended in the SAR as a means to guarantee investment in human
resources and greater distribution of project benefits, the Bank underestimated the
institutional constraints of MEC. Within one year of signing it was evident that the rigid
structure and personnel characteristics of SEF were not conducive to management of a
project as complex as the Projeto Nordeste.
11. Finally, the original design of the project was ambitious, inflexible, and too detailed
in some areas while not enough in others. The loan agreement lists specific project
activities rather than broad areas of investment. Although this was a common Bank
practice at the time, it proved ill-suited to the needs of the education sector. The project
documents lacked concrete implementation mechanisms and actual plans for investment.
A complex education project, the Projeto Nordeste was meant to simultaneously address
many of the problems of education management in the Northeast and attend to a vast
universe ("all" according to the SAR) of grade 1-4 students, teachers, principals and public
schools. Insufficient articulation between components, however, meant that at various
levels (state, municipality, school), activities were not necessarily coordinated and their
impact was therefore in all probability diminished.
12. Revised Components and Reasons for Revisions. Following the change of
government in January of 1995, the Northeast projects were restructured, implementation
procedures revised, disbursement problems addressed, and efforts were made to make the
projects more flexible. Both NEBE II and III were restructured and aligned under the
Second Amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated October 1996 (the first amendment
served to allow for single selection of the national mail service for textbook distribution).
In terms of project structure, overall objectives remained the same. Four of the five state
program components, redefined as broad areas of investment, were maintained, with the
exception of the innovations fund, which was reallocated to the national component, due
to lack of interest on the part of the states (only Maranhao received funding, for
Accelerated Classes, under this component). Increased flexibility is particularly evident
in both the management component of the state program and the national component as a
whole (which, significantly, introduced the element of social mobilization and
communication). The description of the school facilities component acknowledged that
demand was increasing with the addition of expansion of access as an objective. Lastly,
support for the establishment of an independent project coordination unit, the DGPN, was
included.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Reporlt
13. Quality at Entry. The overall quality at entry rating for the Northeast Basic
Education Projects is unsatisfactory. Despite the clear relationship of the project
objectives to both the CAS and the Brazilian education strategy, numerous
inconsistencies and assumptions regarding the ability of and incentives for state
secretariats to "become more efficient" are the principal reasons for this rating. Lack of
detailed attention to implementation issues, especially procurement, project management,
and municipal-state relations, also had. a role in the poor implementation performance
early on. A partial explanation for this inattention was the Bank's and Borrower's
relative lack of project implementation experience in the sector (see also sections E and
G). Delays in both projects between Board Approval and effectiveness-costing the
Borrower nearly US$1 million commitment fees-were due in large part to effectiveness
conditions related to implementation readiness.7 Finally, given the seven years of project
preparation and great expense invested in the design and preparatory process, it is at least
troubling that documents produced immediately after signing reveal a lack of consensus
between the Borrower and the Bank as to the orientation of project objectives and
components. As one project staff member stated: "The Northeast Project functioned in
spite of the original design, rather than because of it."
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
14. Outcome/Achievement of Object]ives. Although it is notoriously difficult to assess
the impact of project activities on learning and student flow outcomes, it is possible to
describe trends in leaming and student flow without attributing these outcomes directly to
the project. The SAR specifies that baseline for key performance indicators were to have
been calculated for 1989; however, as the education census only became widespread in
1995 these data are not available. With the exception of repetition and dropout rates (to
be reduced annually by 10 percent and 5 percent, respectively), there are no specific
outcome targets or baseline data in any of the project documents. Nonetheless, based on
the data described below, the rating for achievement of objectives is satisfactory.
15. With regard to learning achievement, at the time of project signing a reliable system
of assessment did not exist for the Northeast. With the support of the project, the SAEB
system (Basic Education Evaluation System) was improved and made comparable
between testing years. While overall learning levels in the Northeast still lag behind
those of much of the country, some progress has been made in closing the achievement
gap between Northeast students and their counterparts in other regions. For example, the
Northeast was the only the region to demionstrate statistically significant improvements in
average proficiency of eighth grade students in both math and Portuguese results. These
results are shown in Table 1, comparing Brazil and Northeast SAEB outcomes for 1995
and 1997.
7NEBE 11 was delayed over three months from approval to signing, and an additional six months to
effectiveness. NEBE III took slightly less than three months to signing and an additional three months to
effectiveness.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                         7
Table 1. Comparison of 1995 and 1997 SAEB Results, Northeast and Brazil
Math               Portuguese
160    240    320    160    240    320
NORTHEAST
4th Grade  1995    67.6    6.6      0.2   64.4    8.4    0.4
1997    65.8    9.1      0.3   62.3    8.2    0.4
8th Grade  1995    96.0   39.4    3.9   89.0   43.3    4.3
1997    96.9   44.0    7.7   94.9   51.1         5.4
BRAZIL
4th Grade  1995    76.1    11.4    0.5   72.8   13.1        0.3
1997    73.8    13.4    0.5   68.7    12.8    0.5
8th Grade  1995    98.2   59.7    8.6   95.7   63.1    10.0
1997    97.8   55.4    8.8   96.0   58.2         7.6
Source: MECIINEP Calculated from SAEB 1995 and 1997.
Table 2. Student Flows for the Northeast States, 1995-98
Repetition             Dropout
1995  1998   %A    1995  1998  %A
Ceara                    27.4  25.0   -8.8      3.9   4.7  20.5
Maranhao                 43.2  30.9  -28.5      6.4   6.1  -4.7
Pernambuco               38.6  29.3  -24.1      6.9   5.4  -21.7
Sergipe                  42.3  33.8  -20.1      5.8   5.6  -3.4
Alagoas                  43.9  39.9   -9.1      6.9   4.8  -30.4
Bahia                    41.4  32.1  -22.5      6.3   5.0  -20.6
Paralba                  36.2  33.1   -8.6      7.9   5.1  -35.4
Piaui                    44.5  37.0  -16.9      9.3   6.0  -35.5
Rio Grande do Norte      38.3  32.9  -14.1      7.1   4.4  -38.0
Brazil                   30.2  21.3  -29.5      5.3   4.8  -9.4
Taraet                                -27.1                 -14.3
Source: MEC/INEP. Calculated from SlED/Census.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                              8
16. In the case of student flow indicators, Table 2 provides an overview of the changes
that occurred from 1995 to 1998, the first four years for which we have reliable student
flow data.8 Analyzing the trends in light of the only key indicators for which we have
targets (annual 10 percent reduction in repetition and 5 percent reduction in dropout) we
can estimate that although all Northeast states reduced repetition rates, only Maranhao
was able to meet the goal of a 27.1 percent reduction in repetition rates (repetition rates
for Brazil were reduced by 29.5 percent during the same period). In the case of dropout,
all of the states with the exception of Ceara, Maranhao and Sergipe were able to meet the
target of a 14.3 percent reduction in dropout rates. Finally, although Northeast
completion (graduation) rates are still lower than the Brazil average, completion rates for
fourth and eighth grades improved substantially during the project. Piaui, for example,
increased fourth grade completion rates by almost 30 percent from 1995-98, while eighth
grade completion rates jumped by 86 percent in the same period. As a whole the
Northeast states demonstrated significant growth in completion rates, nearly 15 percent
for fourth grade, five times that of Brazil (see Table 3).
Table 3. Fourth and Eighth Grade Completion Rates 1995-98
4th Grade              8th Grade
1995  1998   %A        1995  1998   %A
Ceara                      83.3   88.0    5.6    65.5   68.9    5.2
Maranhlo                   67.4   75.2   11.6    39.1   47.4   21.2
Pernambuco                 73.5   79.1    7.6    37.8   51.8   37.0
Sergipe                    75.0   77.0    2.7    41.0   48.1   17.3
Alagoas                    61.9   72.2   16.6    36.6   50.5   38.0
Bahia                      73.9   79.3    7.3    39.3   57.9   47.3
Paraiba                    69.6   81.9   17.7    33.4   49.8   49.1
Piaui                      58.7   75.8   29.1    23.4   43.6   86.3
Rio Grande do Norte        73.9   85.7   16.0    36.2   57.5   58.8
Northeast                 64.7   74.2   14.7    34.1   50.2   47.2
Brazil                     84.3   86.4    2.5    51.9   62.9   21.2
Source: MEC/INEP.
In contrast to results typically reported for repetition, dropout and promotion which describe the "labels"
given by schools to students (typically underestimating repetition and over-estimating dropouts), the
student flow data here are corrected. For further discussion of repetition rates, please refer to "Secondary
Education in Brazil: Time to Move Forward" (World Bank 1999) as well the INEP Education Statistical
Yearbook for 1998.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                               9
17. Although not originally conceived as a project indicator, net enrollment rates are also
important to the project assessment given the implicit objective of expansion of access.
Figure I highlights the closing of the gap between net enrollment rates in the Northeast
and Brazil. One important conclusion that we can draw from these data is that the gap
between the Northeast and Brazil is closing across nearly all indicators. Furthermore, in
the face of an expansive growth in enrollments, project states managed to maintain
learning levels while significantly improving dropout and completion rates. Nonetheless,
repetition rates are still very high and improving student flows remains an important
challenge for Northeast states. For these reasons, achievement of the project objective is
given a satisfactory rating.
Figure 1. Fundamental Cycle Net Enrollment Rates, Northeast and Brazil, 1981-98
100%
95%  _ 
90%                                                               o
85% -                                                    0 a3
80%                              _
75% -                             
70% -                          n3
65%  -                                                                   i
60%   0   0
55%
50%  -
co  co  co  Go  Go  co  co  co  Xo     CD  CD  CD  (D  CD  CD  CD
-~  r~  CA  * 0 01    -4J  Go  D    N.  CA  .-01 I0   --  Go
|o aNorthea t          GBrcvil
Source: Calculated from PNAD, for which 1990 and 1991 are not available.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                    10
18. Output by Component. The original design allowed for nearly 97 percent of project
funds to be executed by the states in the areas of management, training, civil works and
textbooks. In practice, only the civil works and training components were managed
solely by state secretariats, corresponding to about 60 percent of project funds.
19. State Level Program. Education Management. (Unsatisfactory). As described in
the objectives section of the project, the intention of this component was to increase the
institutional capacity of the state secretariats, and could include technical assistance,
studies, training, and the provision of computers. Lack of initiative and little
improvement in education management at the state level led to DGPN appropriation of
the component. Despite the high quality products that resulted, the absence of
institutional ownership at the state level explains the overall rating of unsatisfactory for
this component. Principal activities conducted under this component included:
*  SIIG (Sistema Integrado de Informoaqes Gerenciais) a management
information system containing 27 modules, was completed in mid- 1999. Initial
development revealed a potential cost savings if states grouped together to
design a single system; CearA however, elected not to participate as they had
already begun development of their own system. The resulting system, for
which states purchased nearly 2,000 computers, is not yet fully operating in any
of the states. At the time of this report, only the state of Piaui has made
substantial progress (5 of 27 modules) in setting up the system. SIIG has since
been acquired by MEC and is now available without cost to all states.
*  Pilot Programs in Microplanning. From 1995-97 the DGPN conducted
microplanning of selected schools and their communities. Though
microplanning was not the sole criteria for investment in school facilities under
the NEBE projects, the technology and use of microplanning has been
significantly advanced under the FUNDESCOLA project.
20. Education Materials. (Satisfactory). The education materials component, primarily
nanaged by MEC/FAE (Student Assistance Fund), included the acquisition of textbooks,
supplementary reading books, and pedagogical kits. In total, more than 62 million
textbooks were distributed across the nine project states. Under the project, important
improvements in the acquisition and delivery process were made, including evaluation
and ranking of textbooks, lowering of prices, detailed information provided to teachers
for selection, and monitoring of delivery. Bank financing was eventually dropped as
delays in the 1996 procurement process would have resulted in late arrival of textbooks
as well as a significant reduction in the number of titles available for selection by
teachers. Nonetheless, important institutional improvements developed under the project
have resulted in the regular delivery of quality textbooks to all children in Brazil under
the PN1LD (National Textbook Program). FAE also conducted a one-time acquisition in
1996 of 9.2 million supplementary reading books (3.9 for NEBE II and 5.3 for NEBE III)
for distribution to grade 1-4 classrooms. Finally, states purchased some 542,000
pedagogical kits, comprised of materials such as rulers, globes, maps, crayons, and other
teaching instruments.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                      11
21. Training. (Unsatisfactory). The training of teachers and school principals was
entirely executed by the states, resulting in a wide range of programs, strategies, and
participants. Basic information about the training programs is scarce: despite the vast
number of individuals involved in the training efforts (the objective of the component
was to provide training to all municipal and state teachers) none of the states developed
any sort of systematic record keeping. Lack of information applied to the formulation of
programs as well; identification of training needs was an unknown practice for secretariat
staff, who determined program content without systematic information regarding the
level of education of the teaching staff within their own school system. The resulting
programs, for the most part delivered by untrained "multipliers" in 40 hour packages,
were concentrated in the capital cities, with nearly 80 percent of resources spent on
transport, food and lodging. The government's best estimate as to how many persons
were trained is 213,000 in 1 16 events; however, given the absence of any systematic
monitoring or evaluation, this number may count individuals more than once, while the
number of events refers to the "type" of events rather than individual training sessions.
22. Improving School Facilities. (Satisfactory). More than 50 percent of project funds
were spent on construction, renovation, and expansion of schools (component output is
presented in Table 3, below). Principal institutional improvements included: higher
quality of school construction as a result of quality technical specifications and external
supervision (23 supervisors were contracted by the DGPN beginning in 1996), as well as
the advancement in the definition of minimum standards. Renovation and expansion of
schools, numbering nearly 25,000 classrooms, presented the greatest number of
difficulties in terms of technical specifications, quality and consistency of results.
Finally, the original project design envisioned 60 percent of resources for civil works
going to the municipal level (for which data is not available). Based on supervision
reports, however, we can determine that municipal classrooms accounted for only 40
percent of the total number of classrooms benefited, which suggests that difficult state-
municipal relations prevented municipalities from having access to the expected level of
resources.



12
Table 4. State and Municipal Classrooms Constructed, Renovated andlor Expanded
Number of State Classrooms                       Number of Municipal Classrooms
Renovation                                       Renovation
and                                              and
State             Construction  Expansion  Renovation  Expansion    Construction  Expansion Renovation  Expansion
Ceara                     200         78       1,721         20             377        81       2,412         18
Maranhao                  384                  2,516         57              95                 1,019         36
Pernambuco                                     3,444                        283                 1,891          6
Sergipe                   136         19         963         35                         5         488          9
NEBE II         720         97       8,644       112              755        86       5,810        69
Alagoas                                9         735         76                        27         662         38
Bahia                     283          6       1,879        159             171         2       1,091         51
Paraiba                   256                    811                         38                   731
Piaui                                          1,653                         12                   596         47
Rio G. do Norte            90         42         613         92              26         3         607         87
NEBE III        629         57       5,691        327             247        32       3,687        223
TOTAL                    1,349       154      14,335        439           1,002       118       9,497        292
Municipal and State     2,351        272      23,832       731
Percent Municipal        43%        43%         40%        40%
Souce: Calculation based on DGP supervision reports.
Note: 42 schools have been excluded as the school system or type of intervention was not provided.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                      13
23. The National Program. (Highly satisfactory). This component consisted primarily
of strengthening MEC in the areas of policy studies, education planning and
management, evaluation, student assessment, information management, and
improvements in textbook acquisition and distribution (as discussed in the education
materials component).
24. Policy Studies. PPO (Programa de Pesquisa e Operacionalizaqdo de Politicas
Educacionais). In 1997 the project, in conjunction with UNICEF, UNDIME and the
World Bank. initiated a research program to investigate the causes of school failure in the
Northeast. The resulting 11 studies, summarized and distributed to education
practitioners as Chamada a A qdo (A Call to Action), revealed such factors as lack of
parents' knowledge of the problems of repetition and low teacher education levels.
25. Education Planning and Management.
PRASEM (Programa de Apoio aos Secretarios Municipais de Educaqdo). The
DGPN created PRASEM in order to disseminate the conclusions and
recommendations of the PPO and related legislative reforms to municipal and
state Secretaries of Education. Multiple events in each state presented
materials and organized workshops relating to teacher career planning,
management of education, revisions to education laws, and results of the PPO.
The first round of PRASEM events began in 1997, with participation rates of
90 percent for the nearly 2,000 Northeast municipalities. In total nearly 5,000
Municipal Secretaries, Mayors and Finance Secretaries have participated in the
36 events in the Northeast States.
*  Pilot PDE (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola). The School Development
Plan, a tool to help schools set and meet goals to improve student learning, was
developed under the auspices of the NEBE projects as a way of responding to
one of the key recommendations of the PPO. Detailed plans and technical
assistance were provided to 67 schools in four states, however, none of the
schools received the promised transfer of resources to execute their projects,
despite state secretariats' guarantees to transfer an average of US$5,000 per
school. The pilot has been extended under the FUNDESCOLA project, with
school transfers financed directly by the project.
*  Escola Ativa Pilot. Under the direction of the project, a pilot program for
multi-grade schools based on the Escuela Nueva experience in Colombia was
initiated in 105 schools and more than 6,000 students, across seven project
states. This pilot was also initiated as a PPO-recommended activity.
26. Evaluation and Information Management. One of the most successful aspects of the
project has been that of assistance to INEP (National Institute for Educational Research
and Studies) in the areas of education evaluation and the education census.9 The National
Student Assessment System, SAEB, created in 1988, was refocused and improved; it is
9 The INEP web page provides access to SAEB, Census results, and other education statistical information.
The site can be accessed at http://www.inep.gov.br.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                    14
now a state of the art system that assesses students enrolled in the final grades of each
cycle, using a single scale. The Northeast Project financed approximately 90 percent of
the development and application of the SAEB exams for 1995 and 1997. The
FUNDESCOLA project supported the 1999 application; however, plans to institutionalize
the SAEB exam are underway.
27. Parallel to SAEB, the Northeast Projects helped finance the backbone of education
statistics for Brazil, SIED (Integrated System of Education Information). The SIED
system is comprised of federal, state, municipal and school modules. At the school level,
the system compiles information about individual students and manages the flow of
information within the school and to INEP. On the other end of the information flow, the
education census, conducted annually by MEC/INEP, collects statistical information
from every school, education sub-sector, and government level in order to assist in the
planning and management of the Brazilian education system. The methodology,
reliability, and turnaround time of the Census have improved dramatically over the past
few years. Results are now used for distribution of textbooks and funding allocations for
the new education financing law (FUNDEF); in fact, without the SIED, the landmark
FUNDEF could not have been implemented.10 Project support to the Census included
training for INEP staff, system architecture and software development, equipment and
software for states and INEP, and consulting and other services.
28. Project Coordination and Management. Immediately upon assuming responsibility
for project management, the DGPN sought ways to improve efficiency, especially in
procedures required for implementation activities. At the same time, the project
contracted the UNDP to procure equipment and manage contracts, principally for the
hiring of personnel to manage the various project components, allowing for flexibility
and financial control that was not possible under MEC/SEF. The development of a
financial management system helped to get the project back on track for managing
project funds, though it did little in the way of qualitative monitoring of activities.
Technical assistance was also improved to the states, and the moves towards a more
proactive relationship was initiated. The DGPN also developed a Coordination for Social
Communication, whose activities included developing the website, a monthly Technical
Bulletin for distribution to teachers, school directors, and MEC staff, and a training
program for radio journalists on the importance of education reform to their communities.
Finally, the project provided training for MEC and DGPN staff in policy analysis and
project management, contributing substantially to the preparation of the FUNDESCOLA
program.
'° FUNDEF, the Fund for Development of Fundamental Education and Valorization of Teachers, guarantees
a minimum per student expenditure for all fundamental cycle students of R$333 (2000 US$190).



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                      15
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME'1
29. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
*  Limited Bank and Borrower Implementation Experience in Education. At
the time of project preparation, neither the Bank nor the Borrower had
extensive implementation experience in the sector. Few projects with long
periods between them, high turnover of Bank and Ministry staff and the
organization of Bank operations at the time contributed to the problem. The
amount of Bank lending in education in the early 1990s was increasing, but still
represented a small portion of total lending; operational divisions for social
sectors within country departments were small, and many of the staff had little
experience with Bank projects. Early lending for education generally used
instruments and approaches modeled from other sectors (such as
infrastructure); only with time and experimentation was the need for more
flexible instruments (APL, process approaches) made evident. In many ways
the NEBE projects can be seen as an expensive, but worthwhile, learning
experience both for the Borrower and the Bank.
*  Transfer of Task Manager to Resident Mission, Brasilia. A positive
influence on project implementation was the transfer of the Task Manager to
Brasilia in mid-1994. This proximity to the project, for a period of more than
three years, contributed to higher levels of trust between the Bank and project
managers and faster resolution of implementation problems. In numerous
interviews, for both internal and external evaluations, project coordinators cited
this factor as an important contribution to the project's success.
30. Factors generally subject to government control.
* Government Ownership and Political Climate for Education
Improvement. The protracted project preparation process reflected in part the
lack of priority given to basic education and government unwillingness to
borrow for the sector. Beginning in 1990, successive governments
demonstrated increased commitment to education; however, the unstable
political and economic climate at the time was detrimental to project
preparation and early implementation. The Cardoso government, which took
office in 1995, should be credited with the establishment of a political climate
conducive to reforming and improving of education. The unprecedented
commitment of Minister Paulo Renato Souza to remaining in office for the
length of the Cardoso government has helped to make education a number one
priority. Significant institutional and political reforms include: (a) approval of
a new National Education Law, redefining the roles and responsibilities of each
government level of education; (b) creation of the FUNDEF, the Fund for
Development of Fundamental Education and Valorization of Teachers,
' Analysis of survey results are included in the Borrower Report; Tribunal de Contas da Unico (Federal
Accounting Office). "Relatorio de auditoria operacional no Projeto de EducacAo Basica para o Nordeste."
Brasilia, December 21, 1998; Xavier, Antonio Carlos da R. and Gomes, Candido Alberto "Projeto
Nordeste: Problemas e Desafios" World Bank, January 1996.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                       16
guaranteeing minimum per studLent expenditures for all fundamental cycle
students of R$333 (2000 US$190) ; and (c) increased school autonomy
through the transfer of federal funds to schools by way of the "Money Direct to
Schools" Program.
*  Inflation and the Plano Real. In July of 1994, then-finance minister Cardoso
was instrumental in eliminating hyperinflation through the establishment of the
Real plan. The impact of fiscal stability on education planning is fairly
straightforward: it makes planning possible. Prior to the creation of the Real
plan, incentives to delay implernentation were quite rational, as each day, the
value of the local currency declined compared to that of the dollars received
under the project.
31. Factors generally subject to implemienting agency control.
*  Creation and Characteristics of National and State Project Management
Units. The establishnient of the DGPN, reporting directly to the Minister,
professionally staffed and with increased levels of autonomy, was an important
factor in project success. State officials credit the quality of technical
assistance provided by the DGPN as having contributed to the quality of
activities, noting, however, that the quantity of that technical assistance was not
sufficient. With the exception of Ceara and Pernambuco, project coordination
units were created to coordinate the preparation and implementation of all
components at the state level. These units were important to project
implementation, yet weaknesses persisted in coordination between project units
and the rest of the secretariat, and particularly between states and
municipalities.
K Redefining MEC: Exchanging a Culture of Bureaucracy for one of
Technical Assistance. In the initial years of project implementation, the
relationship between the states and project managers in MEC/SEF was
antagonistic at best. Although the states and MEC attempted to work in a more
collaborative manner by way of a committee, MEC officials acted as
goalkeepers, reviewing and often rejecting bidding documents and annual work
plans (sometimes for technical, sometimes for political reasons) rather than
working with states to improve processes and documents. The poor definition
of roles and responsibilities may have worsened the relationship. With the
creation of the DGPN, most of these difficulties were resolved; in several areas
of the project, technical assistanice substantially improved the execution of
activities by states.
*  Increased Flexibility with UNDP. The UNDP's contribution to the flexibility
with which the Projeto Nordeste conducted its activities is substantial, and
included technical assistance in the areas of strategic planning, design and
delivery of and support for project implementation and monitoring systems, the
12 For further discussion of the FUNDEF, please see Sergei Soares, "The Financing of Education in Brazil,"
World Bank 1998, and "Secondary Education in Brazil: Time to Move Forward," World Bank and IDB
1999.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                             17
development of the SAEB and national student census database and
dissemination systems, and technical assistance and support services for
dissemination and communication programs. The development of a high
degree of trust and cooperation with UNDP led the Ministry of Education to
seek continued support under the FUNDESCOLA projects.
32. Costs and Financing, Implementation and Disbursement Delays. The project,
deemed in 1995 at risk of not attaining its development objectives, suffered significant
implementation and disbursement delays. NEBE II was delayed nearly two years from
appraisal to effectiveness and it took two years to disburse 20 percent of loan funds (see
Figure 2). 13 Reasons for these delays, as previously mentioned, include: (a) insufficient
attention to implementation issues; (b) unanticipated inflexibility of the MEC/SEF project
coordination unit; (c) overestimation of capacity at the state level and inadequate
incentives to carry out project activities; (d) difficult political climate and varying degrees
of ownership at state and federal levels; and (e) issues of non-compliance on the part of
state and municipal governments, precluding transfer of funds. Furthermore,
cumbersome administrative procedures including duplication and reviews of annual work
plans (PTA), certification of expenditures through SOEs, and lack of experience on the
part of the implementing agencies in following Bank procedures resulted in protracted
delays in the transfer of funds to states. A Bank report stated in 1995, "If the objective of
the MEC/FNDE system for financing local education activities is to transfer substantially
fewer resources than states have a right to receive, and to transfer these resources
considerably later than planned, and with a very low probability that the finances can be
used to execute the planned activities, then it is enormously successful." In 1994 and
early 1995, the Northeast states had access to $17 million in contracted funds;
nonetheless, they managed to apply only US$4 million.
33. Steps were taken to resolve many of these problems in early 1995. The first of these
was to create a separate DGPN, consisting of a full-time project coordination team.
Second, multi-year work plans were developed with each of the states, allowing transfer
of funds for a full two years of project implementation. In addition, the Northeast
Projects underwent restructuring (Second Loan Amendment, October 1996), resulting in
increased flexibility, reduction in the state counterpart funds (from 23 to 10 percent), and
introduction of a competitive fund through which states and municipalities that were
more efficient in executing project funds would have access to the resources of less
efficient states.'4 Together these measures helped to push the Northeast Project back on
track for implementation and disbursements. By project closing, 95 percent of loan funds
had been executed.
13 This overstates actual implementation performance as it includes funds disbursed into the Special
Account.
14 Although the idea of a competitive fund for the school facilities component appeared in the SAR, the
fund was not reflected in the loan or project agreements with the states and hence was not put into practice
in the early years of project implementation.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report                                       18
Figure 2. Project Disbursement, Estimated and Actual FY1994 to FY2000
250 
200
150
0
100          v                  /                              - _
50
0                   I
FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FYOO
-4 .Actual  _Estimated
Source: World Bank, Integrated.Conlroller's System.
F. SUS,TAINABILITY
34. Rationale for Sustainability Rating. The sustainability of project objectives is
likely, due to: changes in the education sector policy environment, the institutionalization
of a number of project activities, and the existence of a follow-on program, FUNDESCOLA.
35. Policy Environment. Despite substantial gains in recent years, the Northeast
continues to lag behind the rest of Brazil on a number of indicators, while the poor are
especially affected. As the Brazil "Education For All 2000" report states: "Remarkable
advances have been registered in the Brazilian education system in the last ten years-
particularly in the last five years-but we are still far from where we want to get and
from the situation we can and should ensure." Further improvement in education
indicators will be strongly influenced by t;he macro and sectoral context of education
policy. The most significant of these policies is the FUNDEF, which has revolutionized
education financing for the fundamental cycle, strongly benefiting the Northeast, as well
as pushed a second strong expansion in enrollment rates. Second, macro-level policies
will affect the ability of institutions to improve education. Finally, demand for better
quality and access to higher levels of education is increasing, ensuring that education will
be high on the agenda for any incoming government. Building on the gains made over
the last decade, the federal and state governments must now focus on reducing persistent
inequalities, improving core sectoral probllems such as the management of education,
continuing the transfer of resources to schools, and raising the caliber of the teaching
force.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                       19
36. Institutionalization of Project Activities. A significant number of project activities
have been institutionalized or are included under the FUNDESCOLA program. In school
construction and renovation, the FUNDESCOLA program and various states have adopted
microplanning as a criteria for investment, with minimum standards for both physical and
pedagogical inputs. With support from FUNDESCOLA, PRASEM has been expanded to
states in the North and Center-West, and MEC is planning to expand the training program
to all of Brazil. SAEB and the Education Census are very well established and continued
support for their implementation is nearly guaranteed, as the Census determines funding
for the FUNDEF. Improvements to the textbook selection, acquisition, and distribution
system by way of PNLD are assured continuity as long as beneficiaries continue to
demand quality books delivered at the beginning of each school year. Although further
evidence of state absorption of project activities is needed, project states are better
prepared to carry out some project mechanisms (including supervision, review of bidding
documents and participation in international projects). Finally, SIIG has great potential
for effectively managing the flow of information at the state level.
37. Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation. As discussed above, MEC has
already institutionalized a number of project activities, especially those at the National
level. Prior to completion of the NEBE projects, the government began discussions for a
follow-on program that would build ofn lessons learned from the Northeast projects. The
participatory research program (PPO) deepened the analysis of the origins of school
failure in the Northeast and suggested specific approaches for tackling these problems,
including direct assistance to schools. Some of the pilots resulting from the PPO analysis
and financed by the NEBE projects (including PDE and Escola Ativa) have been
incorporated in the design of the FUNDESCOLA program. 15
38. Given the sustained levels of investment by the Bank and the government in the
Northeast over the past decade, analysis of the impact of these changes should be
undertaken, by the Bank and independent evaluators. Having established a baseline for
1999, the FUNDESCOLA program, by way of INEP, is in the preliminary stages of
compiling a longitudinal study to assess the PDE and Escola Ativa methodologies.
Possibilities for study are rich; the DGPN has vastly improved upon its monitoring and
evaluation systems and can now trace each investment to the school level. Given the
wealth of data and the possibilities for its use, both Bank and government officials should
continue to work together to ensure the availability of information to Bank and
independent evaluators.
G. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39. Bank Performance - Lending. (Unsatisfactory). The project was identified as early
as 1986, and was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy at the time. Project
'5 The objective of the FUNDESCOLA program is to improve the performance of public education systems in
the poorest regions of Brazil by strengthening primary schools and the public institutions responsible for
them in a coordinated management framework. FUNDESCOLA I focuses primarily on the capital-city
microregions of the North and Center-West, while FUNDESCOLA II, signed in June of 1999, expanded
project efforts to the Northeast states and a second round of microregions in the North and Center-West.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                   20
preparation and appraisal were completed by June 1992. The project design reflected
attention to lessons learned from earlier projects (such as the emphasis on textbooks) and
an attempt to address core sectoral problems (such as the issue of management
efficiency), project preparation and appraisal suffered from: (a) an overestimate of the
nature and depth of Borrower commitment (particularly with regard to the reform of
educational management); (b) insufficient: incentives and instruments to carry the weight
of administrative and managerial reform; (c) an overestimate of borrower/implementing
agency capacity with regard to procurement, monitoring and tracking systems, and
efficient administration of funds; (d) lack of detailed, proactive attention to
implementation issues; and (e) the adoption of a very detailed and rigid specification of
activities and assignment of funds within the Loan Agreement, common at the time, but
ill-suited to the needs of the education sector and the realities of nine different states.
40. Supervision: (Satisfactory). The project experienced a long delay (nearly a year
from approval) in effectiveness, and by 1995 had disbursed only 20 percent of funds.
Bank efforts to improve project implemerntation were intensified with the decision to
place the task manager in Brasilia in mid-1994. After a change in Government in 1995,
the project was restructured. With the subsequent transfer of the Country Management
Unit (CMU) to Brazil, procurement related issues were more quickly resolved at the local
level; however, communication within the Bank, particularly regarding procurement,
could have been improved.
41. Overall Bank Performance. Lack of attention to implementation issues during
lending resulted in increased attention at supervision. Overall, the rating for Bank
performance is satisfactory.
42. Borrower Performance - Preparation. (Unsatisfactory). While high-level
Ministry of Education staff were clearly committed to the project and involved in its
preparation, commitment levels among the different states varied. Nor was there much
work done on the part of the Borrower to ensure the participation and ownership of the
project at lower levels of the Ministry and within the State Secretariats of Education. As
earlier mentioned, lack of a shared vision of the project is reflected in the fact that the
project's educational management objectives were not reflected in the Portuguese
versions of the project documents.
43. Government Implementation Performance. (Highly satisfactory). Implementation
performance improved dramatically with the change in Govermment in 1995. The
macroeconomic environment stabilized with the introduction of the Real plan; sector
reforms, including the introduction of the new National Education Law (1996) and the
introduction of the FUNDEF clarified and improved the legal and financial context for
project implementation. Education was given an extremely high profile in the Cardoso
administration, and the Minister of Education's support of the Northeast Basic Education
projects was instrumental in improving project implementation.
44. Implementing Agency. (Satisfactory). Early implementation of the project by the
Ministry of Education through SEF/UNESP was fraught with difficulties, as described
previously. The creation of a more autonomous project coordination unit, the DGPN,



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                 21
contributed to resolving many implementation issues, especially project procedures,
financial management and technical assistance. Those aspects that could have improved
at the DGPN level include monitoring and evaluation, especially of the teacher training
component.
45. Overall Borrower Performance. (Satisfactory). Performance improved
dramatically following the creation of the DGPN, however, absence of monitoring of
some state-level components and lack of institutionalization of some project activities at
the state level precludes awarding a highly satisfactory rating.
H. LESSONS LEARNED
46. Clear, Measurable Goals and Components. The development of the Projeto
Nordeste and subsequent implementation experience highlighted the importance of
targets and goals in project design that are operational and relevant to components,
objectives, outputs. While the idea behind the AMETs was not entirely flawed,
operationalization in terms of measurability and reliability of information presented
serious problems.
47. Developed Implementation Mechanisms at Project Signing. Delays in
implementation can partially be attributed on the lack of a unified, coherent and detailed
implementation plan. For example for federal and project financing, the states initially
produced two plans which followed different formats and requirements (one for the Bank
and one for the Government). As mentioned earlier, plans for how construction would
actually be implemented was not foreseen. The Projeto Nordeste was not prepared with
the attention required for a project involving international financing, articulation among
various levels of government, focus in nine states and four broad areas of action (system
management, learning materials, human resources and school facilities, in addition to
strengthening the planning and management capacity of MEC).
48. Working Directly with Schools and Municipalities. One of the principal lessons
drawn from the Northeast projects is the need for bottom-up policies to get directly at
improving schools and reaching beneficiaries. Coordinating a package of improvements,
including teacher training, school rehabilitation, or textbooks, is important to improving
student learning. For this reason, minimum standards that include teacher qualifications
as well as pedagogical and physical inputs have been established under the FUNDESCOLA
project. Second, with the implementation of the FUNDEF and the recent expansion of
municipal enrollment municipalities urgently require technical assistance and training for
improving their schools. Efforts such as PRASEM, while beneficial, are only a stop-gap
measure. States are best positioned to assist their municipalities and should be given
incentives to provide technical assistance.
49. Political Will and Creation of Incentives for use of Management Information
System. The project paid substantial attention to including input from the users in
developing and designing the management information system. Well-designed products
are not, however, sufficient; political will, product "marketing" and incentives for use are



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                    22
necessary for a system to be adopted. Measures such as local "facilitators," financing for
initial data entry, and integration of system reports/outputs with other project
requirements (such as supervision or auditing reports) can be used. Extensive initial
commitment to entering existing data in the system (i.e. employment history of all
teachers) was cited as the principal reason for these delays. Furthermore, none of the
state-generated reports required by the DGrPN are produced by SIIG (this persists under
FUNDESCOLA as well). The need for additional training and political will were also
highlighted as important factors. Lastly, the presence of a program "facilitator" may
have influenced the rate of program adoption, as Piaui had the added advantage of a
DGPN-contracted facilitator working on implementation within the state.
50. Client-Oriented Bank Processes and Practice. Projects should have clearly defined
rules and timeframes with the Bank. Animnosity is often created on both sides of the
procurement issue due to unnecessary delays, inconsistencies or changes in reviewing
styles (of Bank staff), and further exacerbated by the lack of information and high levels
of tension. Tension within the project is exacerbated by gaps in knowledge between the
"process" and "product" teams. Full knowledge of processes could make product people
more aware of the steps necessary to complete the Bank's complex procedures and
encourage them to turn in necessary docurnentation on time. Reliance on outside
consultants from the DGPN side encourages dependency and does not allow for
development of "local" project-oriented talents. Special priority and/or flexibility should
be allowed by the Bank for those products, such as textbooks and other didactic
materials, that need to arrive on time for the school year. On the Bank side, control of
documents and smooth communication/transition can always be improved upon; attention
to the client is a motto which is not always uniform in its implementation.
51. Strong Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. Innovation is important to project
success, as the expansion of such programs as Escola Ativa and the PDE under
FUNDESCOLA have demonstrated. Testing and review of instruments, however, is
probably more important to project success. Where supervision was an integral part of
the project component, as in the case of school facilities, the overall quality of the
component rose substantially. Where monitoring and evaluation were weak or absent, as
in the case of the training component, funds were primarily directed to "easy"
expenditures such as housing and transport rather than development of content and
classroom observation of teachers.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                                       23
I. PARTNER COMMENTS
FUNDESCOLA  Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola
Mlnls6rlo d Educaco - anCOMundlal  Norte  *  Nordeste   *  Centro-Oeste
Oficio n.° 699/2000/FUNDESCOLA
Brasilia - DF, 23 de maio de 2000
Senhor Gerente
Acusamos o recebimento das minutas das versoes finais do "Implementation Completion Report"
referentes ao NEBE II e NEBE III e observamos, com satisfacao, que refletem o entendimento geral que
temos do Projeto.
Os documentos sao fruto de um trabalho cooperativo entre a equipe tecnica da DGPN/ MEC e do
Banco Mundial, que se iniciou quando da retomada gerencial do Projeto em 1995, se desdobrou durante o
ajuste dos contratos de emprestimo em 1996 e se consolidou na conclusao do Projeto, ao final de 1999,
com a elaboracao de seus relat6rios.
Este esforco, no qual reconhecemos a importante atuagao de V. S., nos permitiu aumentar
significativamente o desempenho do Projeto, e obter os produtos e resultados tao bem sintetizados nessa
ultima versao do ICR. Reconhecemos, tambem, as inconsistencias apontadas no desenho do Projeto, assim
como as dificuldades observadas na sua implementacao, com reflexos negativos no cumprimento de seus
objetivos. Entendemos, portanto, que os Relat6rios se caracterizam como uma sintese do "Borrower
Completion Report" que elaboramos, e, dessa forma, consideramos desnecessaria a anexacao de seu
"Sumario Executivo", como previsto.
Finalmente, gostariamos de destacar que praticamente todas as recomendagoes e licqes aprendidas
com o Projeto Nordeste foram  incorporadas aos dois primeiros Projetos que compoem o Programa
FUNDESCOLA, e esperamos que o desenho do FUNDESCOLA III venha a se beneficiar ainda mais da
experiencia que obtivemos com o Projeto Nordeste.
Ao agradecermos a inestimavel colaboracao de V. S. reiteramos nossos protestos de estima e
consideracao.
Atenciosamente,
ANTONIO EMILIO SENDIM MARQUES
Diretor Geral do Programa FUNDESCOLA
Ao Senhor
ROBIN SCOTT HORN
Gerente de Projetos
Banco Mundial
CC:    Sr. Mario Vilalva - Secretario de Assuntos Interncionais
Sra. Maria Helena Guimaraes Castro - Diretora do INEP



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report                                      24
J. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
52. Additional information is included in the Borrower Completion Report, in which
figures and tables describing the output for each component as well as a detailed
assessment of the project context, implementation record, survey results and other issues
are included. The ICR analysis benefitecd substantially from the Borrower document as
well as a greater consultative process with the project states and the project team.
K. ANNEXES
53. Please see attached annexes.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
Annex I Key Performance Indicators
Outcomellm pact Indicators
Reduced Repetition Rates              10 percent annually     Not Achieved
Reduced Drop-out Rates                5 percent annually      Achieved
Increased Learning and Promotion      None                    Achieved
Increased Graduation Rates            None                    Achieved
Output Indicators
Training of Teachers and School Principals  All               Not Achieved
Textbooks for First and Second Grades  2 per child plus workbooks Achieved
Textbooks for Third and Fourth Grades  4 per child plus workbooks Achieved
School Construction                   60 percent Municipal    Unknown
School Renovation                     60 percent Municipal    Unknown



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report
Annex 2a Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~00 W                             gj$g_
1. Education Management           20.4         25.8      126.5%
2. Education Materials           116.1         44.3       38.2%
3. Teacher Training               28.2         25.0       88.7%
4. Improving School Facilities   189.3        205.0      108.3%
5. Innovations Fund                4.0          1.7       42.5%
6. National Component             11.7         46.7      399.1%
Total Baseline Cost  :318.7
Total Project Costs  .378.6
Total Financing Required  .369.7        348.5      94.3%



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
Annex 2b Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ExpenditureCate go:ry                                          NB              Ot:hr N:.                    Total Co
1. Civil Works                                                       0.0            17.5            157.0              -           174.5
0.0          (8.5)           (78.7)            0.0           (87.2)
2. Equipment and Furniture                                           12.5           4.0              2.0              8.8           27.3
(11.2)        (3.2)            (1.6)             0.0          (16.0)
3. Textbooks and Teachers' Guides                                    66.1           0.0              0.0              0.0           66.1
(43.0)         0.0              0.0              0.0          (43.0)
4. Reading Books                                                     35.8           0.0              0.0              0.0           35.8
_  (32.1)      0.0              0.0              0.0          (32.1)
5. Educational Materials                                             14.2           0.0              0.0              3.0           17.2
(14.2)         0.0              0.0              0.0          (14.2)
6. Studies, Technical Assistance & Training                           0.0           0.0             24.8             25.2           50.0
0.0           0.0             (19.5)            0.0          (19.5)
7. Innovations Fund Grants                                            0.0           0.0              0.0              4.0            4.0
0.0           0.0              0.0              0.0           0.0
8. Maintenance, Supervision and Project Operating Costs               0.0           0.0              0.0              3.6            3.6
0.0           0.0              0.0              0.0           0.0
Total                                                                128.6          4.0             26.8             44.6          378.5
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ ___   (100.5)  (11.7)      (99.8)            0.0          (212.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs recated to (i) managing the proejct, and (ii) re-lending project funds
to local government units.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report
Annex 2c Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Civil Works                                                                 0.0            37.4           149.6              -            187.0
0.0           (18.7)         (74.8)           0.0            (93.5)
2. Equipment and Furniture                                                     9.1             3.3            5.1             7.1            24.5
(9.8)          (5.3)           (5.3)          0.0            (20.5)
3. Books                                                                       33.9            0.0            0.0             0.0            33.9
______________________________________________________                        (33.6)          0.0             0.0            0.0            (33.6)
4. Didactic Materials                                                          4.8             0.0             1.1            0.0             5.9
(4.8)          0.0            (1.1)           0.0             (5.9)
5. Technical Assistance, studies, training and operational                      0.0            0.0            23.8            1.7            25.4
expenditures                                                                   0.0             0.0           (20.7)           0.0            (20.7)
6. Technical Assistance, studies, training and operational                     0.0             0.0             8.8            0.0             8.8
expenditures                                                                   0.0             0.0            (5.4)           0.0            (5.4)
7. Administrative Expenditures                                                 0.0             0.0            14.3            0.0            14.3
0.0            0.0            (14.3)          0.0            (14.3)
8. Training Activities for Teachers and School Staff                           0.0             0.0            17.9            0.0            17.9
.____________________________________________  0.0  0.0            (7.1)            0.0            (7.1)
Total                                                                          47.7            3.3            70.9            8.7           317.6
(48.2)         (24.0)         (128.7)          0.0           (200.9)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/lincludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs re,ated to (i) managing the proejct, and (ii) re-lending project funds
to local government units.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report
Annex 2d Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
AppraisatAtalLt                               Percentage
o, M oneilt               'Estmate .,i       ve ?of Apprasis,
1. Education Management            15.4         5.0       14.4        11.4       93.5%     228.0%
2. Education Materials             87.6        28.5       43.1         1.2       49.2%       4.2%
3. Teacher Training                            28.2        7.1        17.9         -          -
4. Improving School Facilities     98.9        90.5      100.5       104.5      101.6%      115.5%
5. Innovations Fund         _                   4.0        -           1.7         -        42.5%
6. National Component              10.11        1.5       35.8        10.9      354.5%     726.7%
TOTAL                  212.0       157.7       200.9      147.6       94.8%       93.6%
Annex 3
There was no economic analysis conducted during preparation, and due to insufficient data we were unable to conduct a
cost-benefit analysis at completion.



NEBE 11 Implementation Completion Report
Annex 4a Bank Inputs--Missions
$§§d df P"i                a4Numbe ofPR sn  n    ca          efriac  aiis
$agWoProjltCy WP  res ">¢>,Obe '*i ? is X                          gk S          gtivel
Identification/Preparation
05/27/85      1      Tm, C                         N/A           N/A
05/19/86      1      Tm                            N/A           N/A
09/30/87      2      Ed, C                         N/A           N/A
01/28/88      3      Ed, Fms                       N/A           N/A
02/01/88      3      Ed, EclFms.                   N/A           N/A
05/20/88      1      Ed                            N/A           NIA
07/18/00      3      Ed, Padm, C.                  N/A           N/A
10/31/89      3      Tm, Edl, C/Ed                 N/A          N/A
04/17/90      5      Tm, Pav, C/Ed, C              N/A           N/A
12/03/90      3      Tm, C/lEd, C                  N/A          N/A
02/11/90      3      Tm, C/lEd                     N/A           N/A
04/04/91      1      Tm                            N/A           N/A
02/11/92      5      Sdir., Tm, Ec(YP), C/A, C/Ed  N/A           N/A
07/29/92      2      Tm, Ed/Ec, Ec                 N/A           N/A
08/20/92      4      Tm,                           N/A           N/A
10/25/92     4       C/Ed, C,                      N/A          N/A
02/11/93      6      Tm, Ed/Ec, C/A, C             N/A           N/A
09/14/93      1      Ed/Ec                         N/A           N/A
Appraisal/Negotiations
09/01/93      1      Tm                             S            HS
11/18/93      1      Tm                             S            HS
12/16/93      1      Tm                             S            HS
Supervision
01/19/94      4      Tm, Fms, Fms/Cp, C/Pro         S            HS
05/03/94      4      Tm, Pec, Pms, C                S             S
09/08/94      1      Tm                             U             U
05/05/95      1      Tm                             U             U
06/29/95      1      Tm                             U             U
04104/96      1      Tm                             S             U
02/14/97      1      Tm                             S             S
06/27/97      1      Tm                             S             S
04/28/98      3      Tm, Proa, Ed                   S             S
03/10/99      1      Tm                             S             S
ICR
10/04/99      1      C                             N/A           N/A
02/08/00      1      C                             N/A           N/A
Specialization: C - Consultant, C/A - Consultant/Architect, C/Ed - ConsultantVEduc. Specialist
C/Pro - Consultant/Procurement, Ec- economist, Ec/Fms - Economist/Financial Mgmt
Specialist, Ed - Education Specialist, Ed/Ec - Education Economist, Fmr/Cp -
Financial Mgmt Specialist/Computer MIS, Fms - Financial Management Specialist,
Padm - Public Administration, Pec - PrincipalEconomist, Proa - Procurement Analyst,
Sdir - Sector Director, Tm - Task Manager



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
Note: At Appraisal for NEBE 11 it was decided to split the project into NEBE 11 and IIl; as such nearly
all of the Identification/Preparation missions are charged to NEBE II.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
Annex 4b Bank Inputs-Staff
Identification/Preparation                248.7           $578,700.00l
Appraisal/Negotiation                      95.3           $234,301.80
Supervision                               134.2           $350,565.32
ICR                                           5             $4,750.10C
Total                                    483.20          $1,168,317.12
Note: These costs may be over-estimated as the NEBE II Project became two projects at
appraisal; as such preparation costs for both projects were charged to NEBE II.



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
Annex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Objectiv4  Outputs      r      H   ~ $I" 4  M W  SN W              ;WA
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                         ___
Physical                                       _
Financial                                      _
Institutional Development            _
Environmental                                                        i
Social:                              __  __
Poverty Reduction                                i
Gender                                        _
Other (specify)                                                     i
Private Sector Development   _
Public Sector Management                          i
Other (specify)                                                    i T_ _



NEBE II Implementation Completion Report
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
tBank' P6ioman e:0Sh'KX}3DE.,+0wS ..l:
Lending              _                        __ I              _ _
Supervision                                     J  i      __
Overalli
Preparation                           _
Government Implementation Performance    T    _
Implementing Agency 
Overall                                _           i
(HS=Highly Satisfactory,S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)



