Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11298-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
APRIL 20, 1993
Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a reshicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiil duties- Its eontentt mav net athonriro hp da;cldnea wwm* WjAA Ranir an&hnA4Waln"



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 15, 1992)
Currency Unit: Cruzeiro (Cr.)
US$1.00 = Cr.3789.9
US$1 million = Cr.37.9 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
AMET                                    Annual Management Efficiency Targets
CAPES             Coordenac,o de Aperfeiboamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior/
Agency for Advanced Training of Higher Level Personnel
CAIC                     Centros de Atenalu Integral a Crianca e ao Adolescente/
Centers for Integrated Care of Children and Adolescents
CIEP        Centros Integrados do Ensino Publico/Integrated Public School Centers
CPS                 Coordenacao de Planejamento SetoriallSectoral Planning Unit
DDE                    Departamnento de Desenvolvimento de Sistemas de Ensino!
Educational Systemns Developme.it Department
EDURURAL                                   Northeast Basic Euucation I Project
FAE                                     Fundac,o de Assistencia ao Estudante/
Foundation for Student Assistance
FNDE                          Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educaqlo/
National Fund for Education Development
FPE                      Fundo de ParticipaqAo Estadual/State Participation Fund
FPM                Fundo de Participa,co Municipal/Municipal Participation Fund
INEP                     Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais/
National Institute for Education Studies and Research
MEC                                     Ministerio da Educagao e do Desporto/
Mimstry of Education and Sports
OME              Orgao Municipal de Educaqao Basica/Municipal Education Office
PAA                           Plano de Ac,o Anual/Annual Implementation Plan
PAI                 Programa Anual de Investimento/Annual Investment Program
SAEB                                   Sistema da Avaliacao do Ensino Basico/
Evaluation System for Basic Education
SE                                Secretaria Estadual/State Education Secretariat
SEF                                      Secretaria de Educagao Fundamental/
Secretariat for Primary Education
UEESP                      Unidade Estadual Encarregada do Suporte ao Projeto/
State Project Support Unit
UESCN                 Unidade Encarregada do Suporte ao Componente Nacionall
Support Unit for the National Component
UNDP                                     United Nations Development Program
UNESP                      Unidade Nacional Encarregada do Suporte ao Projeto/
Natinnal Prniect Knnnnrt UTnit



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1Bble of Contents
Pge No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .                  .......................................i
I. BACKGROUND,ISSUESANDSTRATEGY  ............................... 1
A. Background ............................................... 1
B. Population, Income Distribution and Poverty ............ ...............
C. Education in Brazil ...........................................2
D. Organization and Administration of Primary Education  ....................3
E. Education Finance       ...........................................4
F. Main lssues in Primary Education ..................5
G. Government Strategy in Education .................................9
H. Bank Role and Strategy ...........             ...................   10
'. Lessons Leaned fom Past Projects ........................... .  11
H. THEPROJECT .................................................  13
A. Project Objectives ...........................   13
B. Project Componets ...........................   14
C. Project Description ...........................   15
m. PROJECTS COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..                             29
A. Project Costs .29
B. Project Financing .31
C. Incemental Recurrent Costs .31
D. Procurement .34
E. Disbursements .38
F. Accounts andAudits .40
0. RetroactivePinancing .40
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT .41
A. Project Readiness for               ..lementa..on                                41
B. Project Coordination .41
C. ProjectI mlementtion.                                                            43
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
V. BENErm AND RISKS ..........................................   44
A.  oroject Benefits ..........................................    44
B. Project Risks  ..........................................                         45
C. Environmental Impact ........................................    45
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......                          ...............  45
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ........         ....................  30
Table 3.2: Financing Play. ...........................................   32
Table 3.3: Procurement Methods ........................................  35
Table 3.4: Estimated Disbursements ......................................  39
LIS OF ANNEXES
1.     Project Costs (S Tables) ........................ ................  49
2.  Project Costs by State (4 Tables) .54
3.   Procurement Methods and Prior Review Thresholds .58
4.     The Project States .. . .........................................  59
S.     Amnual Management Efficiency Targets and Technical Notes.                            65
6.  Gvu'delines for the Time Slice Component.                                               78
7.    Detailed Description of National Component and
Performance Indicators .93
8.     Performance Indicators for State Project Components:
Education Management, Teacher Training, Educational
M4atias .101
9.   Selected Documents Available in Project File .117
Tbis report is based on the findings of an appraisa mission which visited Brazil in June 1992
comprising Barbara Bruns (Task Manager), Julian Schweitzer, Barbara Nunberg, Alcyone Saliba,
Robin Horn, Hongyu Yang, Sergio Dompieri (Consultant, Architect), and Guiomar de Mello
(Consultant, Teacher Training Specialist). Peer reviewers were Nancy Birdsall, Jane Armitage,
Himelda Martinez, Barbara Nunberg, and Julian Schweitzer.



ini
SECOND NORT EASl BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
LODAN AND) PRlOJIECT SUMMARY
Federative Republic of Brazil
MinistrY of Education; State and Municipal Education Secretariats in 4
Nornheast States (Ceard, Maranhlo, Sergipe and Pernambuco)
Amwunt:               US$ 212 million
Tern":                Payable In 15 years, including a five year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
dIW lles:dp"w         The project's objectives are to increase student learning, reduce repetition
ad dropout, and increase graduation rates in the four states through
mprovemenlts in the quality of state and municipal primary education and
in the efficiency of education management. At the state level (97 percent
of project costs), the project will: :.) streamline state education
bureaucracies and help them achieve more efficient use of human resources
and a more efficient allocation of spending; ii) increase state and municipal
sudents' access to texbooks, reading books and other instructional
materials; iii) improve state and municipal teachers' skills and classroom
effectiveness and the leadership skills of school directors; iv) finance a time
slice of the staes' school rehabilitation and construction programs,
conditional upon states' progress in implementing agreed management
reforms; and v) support promising state and municipal education initiatives
, trough matching grans from a small Olinovations Fund". The project
will also have a component at the federal level (3 percent of project costs),
to strengten the Ministry of Education's capacity for key oversight and
support functions, such as national standardized student testing; planning,
policy and norm-etting; and financial transfers to equalize education
speding acoss states. Fially, the project will support reform of the
centralized national textbook and school lunch distribution systems, in order
to assure the timely and adequate availability of learning materials in
Bralian prmary schools.
The project will direcdy improve the quality of schooling for approximately
3 million children per year in the first fior grades of state and municipal
primary schools in the four states, which is approximately 75 percent of
tot primary enrollments in these states (and 30% of total primary
enrollmen  in the Northeast). By improving quality, the project will
contribute to reduced dropout and repetition rates an4 higher graduation
rantes in the four staes. Improved student flows will also increase the



iv
efficiency of state and municipal spending on primary education. Technical
assistance in support of management reforms under the project should
produce sigificant improvements in the efficiency of state education
secretariats and help states develop a new role as catalysts for
improvements In municipal school quality as well. Improvements in the
efficiency of the national textbook and school lunch distribution programs
wil ultimately benefit 28 million primary school students in Brazil.
R;sks:                A risk is that states' commitment to implementing politically difficult
administrative reforms (articularly with respect to staffing levels) may
falter -uring project implementation, especially after the change .n
administrations at the state level in early 1995, and that the expected
improvements in state and municipal education systems would not result.
The annual reviews of states' implementation of their reform programs
planned in connection with the project's time slice component and the
explicit system for reprogramming resources across states are expected to
mitigate this risk. Another risk is poor implementation of the other state-
level components, due to weaknesses in administrative capacity. The
project's central emphasis on strengthening states' management information
and aiministrative capacity, the amount and types of technical assistance
planned, and the supevision role to be played by the Ministry of Education
will help reduce this risk.
Local           Foreign         Total
-IS   $ million
o    Education Management          15.1              3.2              18.3
*    Eiucational Materis           78.2             22.1             100.3
•    Teacher Training              25.3              0.0             25.3
o    Time Slice Fincing           157.2              3.9             161.1
o    Innovaions Fund                4.0             0°0                4.0
o     Physical Contingencies       20.6              1.8              22.4
o     Price Congencies             34.0              3.5              37.5
*    Of Whidh, Taxes (15%)         51.0                               51.0



v
Federal Government        75.3                75.3
State Governments         91.4                91.4
Proposed IBRD Loan       173.6      38.3     211.9
TOTAL                    340.3      38.3     378.6
Estimae Dsbh nements:
Bank FY             2Y ;y e'                              _ 
Annual                57.011   43.9    44.0    35.1    22.4       9.6
Cumulative            57.0   100.8   144.8   179.9   202.4   212.0
v Including US$15 million In retroactive finmacing.
Rate of lReturn:     Not applicable
Staff Aggrai'sal RoM 11298-BR



BRtAZIlL
SECOND NORTS BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L    RQM. IM= EA
A.    Bakgmnd
1.1          With a land mass of over 8.5 million km2 and a population of almost 157 million,
Brazil is the largest and most populous country in Latin America and has the region's largest and
most diversified economy. While Brazil experienced high per capita income growth in the 196X
and 1970s, the 1980s were characteized by economic stagnaion, high inflation and the inability
of successive governments to stabilize the economy. These problems have persisted into the
1990s. Although in 1991, GDP increased slightly and inflation abated somewhat, in 1992 GDP
growth was negative (-0.9 percent) and Inflation reached 1150 percent for the year.
Macroeconomic management in Brazil is complicated by the large stock of external debt
accumulated during the 1970s and 1980s (US$116 billion in 1991), and the rapid buildup in
recent years of a high level of inal public debt.
1.2          The Collor government, which took office in 1990, moved aggressively to try to
stabilize the economy, confiscating 70 percent of the assets of the financiaij sector and using wage
and price controls concurrently. Although these measures had some short-term impact and were
followed by a more orthodox macroeconomic policy regime in late 1991, the deep-seated causes
of inflation in Brazil, including the fiscal imbalance, have not yet been tackled successfully.
Since assuming office in late 1992, the Franco administration has not shown clear commitment to
any set of macroeconomic policies, but has continued to pursue some of the structural reforms
launched by the Collor government. 'lTese include privtization of state enterprises and trade
liberalization to open the Brazilian domestic market to greater foreign competition.
B.    Poation Income Distribution and    r
1.3          Although Brazil's per capita GNP of US$2,910 in 1991 was the highest in South
America, income distribution is highly unequal and an estimated 25 percent of the population lives
in poverty (defined as having total family income below one-quarter of a minimum salary per
person, or roughly $15 per month per person). The incidence of poverty is highest in the
Northeast region, where an estimated 44 percent of the population is poor. The nine states of the
Northeast, with about 50 million residents, account for only 30 percent of Brazil's total
population, but they account for 56 percent of the Brazilian poor. The severity of poverty is also
worst in the Northeast; the -poverty gap"1 in the Northeast is two-to-three times larger than in
other regions. Higher rate3 of poverty in the Northeast are not just the result of lower average
levels of income in the region, but also of worse income inequality than for the country as a
whole.
1.4          Low levels of education are widely recognized as a characteristic associated with
poverty, and education appears to be particularly importint in explaining differences in income in
Brazil. According to recent research, half of the differences in average incomes in different
1.    ?POvety gap' indexes measure both the number of people living below a poverty line and the
degr  to which their micomes al below the poverty lin.



- 2 -
urban areas in Brazil can be explained by education.2 Moreover, reirns to education, which in
general are high In Brazil, are especially large in regions with above average incidence of
poverty, such as the Northeast.
C.    Ication iaBrai
1.5          Brazil's levels of human resource development are exceedingly low compared with
other countries in the region and especially compared with other countries of similar per capita
income. In 1986, mean educational attaimnent in Brazil (of the population over 10 years old) was
only 4.5 years of schooling, and 62 percent of the population had four years or less of schooling.
For comparison, In 1985 only 7 percent of the Korean labor force had four or less years of
schooling. Twenty percent of the Brazilian population in 1986 had completed one year or less of
schooling. In Latin America and the Caribbean, only Bolivia, Nicaragua and Haiti have lower
average edueational attainment than Brazil. In addition to undermining the establishment of a
stable social and political system, underdevelopment of human resources threatens the long-term
growth of the Brazilian economy. Economic success in a highly competitive world economy and
a mere open domestic economy increasingly depend upon the productivity, innovativeness and
trainability of the Brazilian labor force. It is highly questionable whether Brazil can expect to
meet these challenges with a labor force possessing, on average, less than five years of primary
education.
1.6          Alt  igh educational atainment in Brazil is abysmally low, the country has made
significant progress over the past forty years in expanding access. Today, 92 percent of Brazilian
children enter primary school, compared to less than 40 percent in 1950. Even in the Northeast,
close to 90 percent of children at some point enroll in primary school. The overriding problem in
Brazilian education today is not access, it is educational achievement. Two-thirds of Brazilian
children nrer complete primary scaool, and learning levels, even for those who stay in school,
are very low. Strikingly, the average Brazilian student spends 7.7 years in primary school -
longer than in any other Latin American country, and almost enough to allow completion of the
eight year primary school cycle. Yet during those 7.7 years, the average student does not even
complete the fourth grade. Nationally, only 20 out of every 100 students complete all eight grades
of primary school without repetition; in the Northeast, only 12 out of 100 do so. The great
majority of Brazilian primary students are locked in a cycle of low learning achievement and
costly repetion. It is estimated that students repeating grades cost the Brazilian education system
over US$2 billion per year, or 30 percent of current public spending on primary education. With
lower repetiton and more efficient student flows through the primary school system, more
education spending could be focused on improving school quality.
1.7          Educational attainment is lowest in the Northeast region, where 76 percent of the
population has completed four years or less of schooling and 37 percent of the population has
completed only one year or less of schooling. In the Northeast, 80% of all children do not
complete primay school. 'Tere is also a significant gap in schooling attainment between urban
and rural dwellers. Ihe urban population completes on average 4.3 years of schooling, while
rural population completes only 1.7 years of schooling.
2.    Reis, J. 0. Almeida dos and Barros, R. Paes de (1991), 'Wage inepality and the distribution of
educadon: A sudy of the evolution of regional differences in inequality in metropolita Braai,
Ju lgR        g      mic, Vol. 36, pp. 117-143.



-3-
D.    Qnization and Administration of Primary Edugtion
1.8          Brazil supports an extensive and deventralized education system at all levels,
beginning with two years of pre-school (ages 4-6), and continuing (at age 7) through eight grades
of primary school, 3-4 yemrs of general secondary or technical school, and higher education at the
uLdergraduate, Mastcr's and Ph.D. levels. Primary education has been compulsory for some time
and the 1988 Constitution made pre-school compulsory as well, despite the fact that pre-school
coverage is currently very low (about 25 percent), and to a large extent accounted for by the
private sector.
1.9          All three levels of government (federal, state, and municipal), as well as the
private sector, provide education services. The quality of schooling varies considerably by region
and by type of provider. Generally, children from the upper and middle classes attend private
schools from pre-school through secondary school, while poor and lower-middle class children
attend public schools. Children from the public school system are almost always inadequately
prepared to compete with students who have studied in private schools for spaces in the heavily
subsidized, elite public university system. As a result, government expenditures on higher
education disproportionately benefit the rich and middle class.
1.10         Over 28 million Brazilian children attend primary school, with 57 percent of them
enrolled in state schools, 30 percent in municipal schools, 12 percent in private schools and 1
percent in federal schools. Each of Brazil's 27 states has a secretariat of educion to administer
its network of schools. Educational administration in Brazil's 4,500 municip3lities is a more
varied phenomenon. In major metropolitan areas, municpal school systems generally have
secretariats of education similar in structure, functions and administrative capacity to the state
secretariats. However, in smaller municipalities and particularly in rural areas, municipalities
typically have only a small OME (Municipal Education Office), and sometimes no distinct
educational administration. The frgility of most municipal education systems is a major issue in
Brazil, particularly as, since the fiscal reform of 1988, government revenues are increasingly
being devolved to the municipal level with the expectation that these will assume increasing
responsibility for the delivery of social services. In the Northeast, where municipalities already
account for a higher share of primary enrollments (45 percent) than state-run schools (41 percent),
the issue is particularly acute.
1.11         The federal Ministry of Education and Sports (MEC) operates thrzugh six national
secretariats (for basic education, secondary and technical education, higher education, special
education, special projects, and sports), one executive secretariat, and several affiliated agencies.
The National Secretariat for Basic Education (Secretarla de Educaao Fundamental, or SEF) is
responsible for defining national policies for pre-school and primary education (considered 'basic
education- in Brazil), evaluating state, municipal and private school performance and providing
technical and financial assistance for improving education quality.
1.12         SEF currently has 68 higher-level staff, about half of which are educators, and the
rest architects, engineers, administrators, lawyers, economists and sociologists. Approximately
half of the SEF staff are assigned to the Educational Systems Development Departmem
(Departamento de Desenvolvinento de Sistemas de Ensino, or DDE). DDE is the key unit within
SEF responsible for primary education policy, oversight, and technical assistance to states and
municipalities. DDE is responsible for reviewing annually states' and municipalities' proposed
investment programs and making technical recommendations about funding allocations at the state



-4 -
and munic;pal levels. DDE is the federal agency ultimately responsible for national primary
education quality.
1.13         The National Fund for Education Development (Fwndo Naclonal de
Desenvolvlmento da Educar4o), or FNDE, has the legal status of a foundation, but reports to the
Minister of Education. FNDE is the principal source of funding for primary education at the
federal level in Brazil, with an annual budget of roughly US$1.5 billion. FNDE revenues come
from the salarlo-educapCo, a payroll tax on industrial employees earmarked for primary
education. Two-thirds of salario-educacao revenues, called the "state quota," are distributed
automatically to the states according to the revenues they generated. The remaining 1/3 of the
salario-educaCao, revenues, called the "federal quota," is allocated to states and municipalities by
SEF, on the basis of criteria defined by the Ministry and transferred to the s;es and
municipalides by FNDE.
1.14         Other branches of the Ministry of Education with important reeponsibilities for
primary education are the Sectoral Planning Unit (Coordenapao de IsaneJamento Setoria, or
C.1S), which is responsible for education statistics, and the Agency for Advanced Training of
Higher Level Personnel (FWdacdo da Coordenacdo de Aperfeieoanento de Pessoal de N(vel
Superior, or CAPES), which is responsible for human resource development. including the award
of scholarships and fellowships for graduate and post-graduate studies. The National Institte for
Educational Studies and Research (Instwo Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educaclonals, or
INEP), which, like CAPES and FNDE has the legal status of a foundation, carries out educational
evaluation and research. INEP is responsible for administration of the new national student
assessment syenem (Sistena da AvaliaC4o do Ensino Bdsico, or SAEB), under development.
SAEB is a standardized achievement test to be administered every two years to a national sample
of students in the first, third, fifth and seventh grades of primary school. INEP will not only
administer the tests, it will be responsible for analysis and dissemination of the results. Finally,
the Foundation for Student Assistance (FWndaCdo de Assisttncia ao Esmdne, or FAE)
administers the national textbook and school lunch programs. All of these agencies except CPS
(which reports to the executive secretary of MEC) hold more or less parallel positions in the
organizational structure of the Ministry of Education, and their heads report directly to the
Minister of Education.
E.    Education Finanx
1.15         Total puolic spending on education by all levels of government amounted to about
US$11 billion in 1986 (the last year for which consolidated public spending information is
available) and accounted for approximately 23 percent of total social spending and 4 percent of
GDP. At the primary level states account for about 65 percent of public expenditure, while
municipalities contribute 25 percent and the federal government the remaining 10 percent. Federal
spending is channeled to state and municipal schools through the salarlo-educaCo financial
transfers administered by the FNDE, and in-kind transfer programs such as the national school
feeding and textbook distribution programs handled by FAE (about US$800 million per year). Of
the total public spending on education (by all levels of government), about 50 percenit goes for
prinary education, 25-30 percent for higher education, 10 percent for secondary education, and
the rest for other adult literacy and vocational programs.
1.16         The 1988 federal constitution mandated that the federal government apply at least
18 percent of its total annual tax receipts to education. State and municipal governments, in turn,



- 5 -
are obliged to spend 25 percent of their total revenues from taxes (including tax revenues
transferred from other levels of government) on education. The principal revenue sources at the
state level are the value-added tax (25 percent of which is passed on to municipal governments), a
federal block grant called the state participation fund (FPE), a 5 percent surcharge on the federal
income tax, a tax on property transfers, and the salario-educacao. Municipal revenues for
education come from a fcderal block grant for municipalities (FPM), the above-mentioned share
of the value-added tax, urban real estate taxes, a tax on services, and transfers from the federal
and state governients.
1.17         Tke FPE and FPM funds, which are financed by taxes on income and industrial
products, are the major redistributive elements of the Brazilian tax system. State and municipal
shares are determined by population and per capita income. To date, however, they have not
succeeded in equalizing persistent regional differences in spending per capita or in the quality of
public services. There are sharp differences in education spending per student across regions,
among states, and between state and municipal education systems. In 1986, for example, average
direct classroom spending in state primary schools throughout Brazil was US$144 per student,
whereas in municipal schools nationwide, spending averaged only US$52 per student. Within the
nine states of the Northeast, spending per student ranged from US$32-US$98, and averaged
US$67, less than half the national average. Within municipal school systems in the Northeast,
spending per student ranged from US$2142, and averaged US$29 - less than half of the
Northeast state average and about half of the national municipal average. Inequalities in education
spending are a major source of education quality problems in Brazil.
F.    Major Issues in Primary Education
1.18         Low Prim= Copletion Rate. The overwhelming issue in Brazilian education is
the low educational attainment of the population, which is a direct result of extraordinarily high
repetition and dropout rates in primary education. Nationally, over fifty percent of students in the
first grade of primary school each year are required to repeat the grade; this first grade failure
rate is the highest in Latin America. In part out of frustration with their lack of progress, 63
percent of children drop out c primary school before completing it. Other problems in the
educatien sector - such as Brazil's low participation rates in secondary education and the
inequality of access to heavily-subsidized higher education - are directly related to the inability of
the Brazilian education system to get more children through primary school.
1.19         Low Ouality and Low Efficiency in Public Education. Close to 90 percent of all
primary students at.end public schools, and the low average quality of these schools is a major
causal factor in Brazil's high primary school failure (i.e., dropout and repetition) rates. High
repetition rates and the clogged school "pyramid' - about 70 percent of total enrollments in
Brazilian primary education are concentrated in the first four grades - also indicate the low
efficiency of the public system; although average spending per student is only about US$250 per
year, it costs the public system US$5,500 (or 22 student-years) on average, to produce a primary
school graduate.
1.20         Research has shown that education quality and efficiency are closely linked.
Under the World Bank-financed EDURURAL project, certain types of investments in school
quality "paid for themselves", because they resulted in lower repetition rates and overall savings
for the school system. Investments in school quality (such as provision of textbooks and other
educational materials, making sure that school facilities met minimal standards, and training



-6-
- 6 -
teachers) also measurably increased student learning, as measured by achievement test scores.
Why then don't Brazilian school systems make these efficiency-inducing investments? Major
reasons appear to be: (a) inefficient management; (b) inadequate spending; (c) inefficient
allocation of resources where spending iL adequate; and (d) inappropriate teaching strategies and a
'culture of repetition" among teachers. As much as three-quarters of the primary school failure
rate can be attributed to various combinations of these factors, which result in low quality
schooling - that is, to a school environment lacking key instructional inputs, such as books and
materis, and lacking adequately qualified and motivated teachers capable of using effective
teaching strategies and tools.
1.21         Inefficient management and &ernance. Brazil's extreme variations in school
quality reflect the failure of the Ministry of Education to assume its legitimate role in setting
national norms and redistributing education spending so as to permit municipalities and states of
different income levels to achieve minimum quality standards. The Ministry has done little to
date to encourage a more rational division of responsibilities between state and municipal school
systems; in fact, the Ministry has traditionally channeled discretionary funding directly to
municipalities (often selected with political motives), thereby undercutting the potential role of the
states in working with municipalities to achieve homogenous state-wide quality standards. At
present, the Ministry is making efforts to rationalize its support to basic education, including: I)
adopting transparent, technical and need-based criteria for FNDE funding transfers to states and
municipalities; ii) offering technical assistance to states and municipalities seeking to improve
education quality; and iii) developing core oversight, research and evaluation functions, such as
national standardized testing to provide information about actual levels of student learning.
1.22         The structure of education management in Brazil is complex and ill-defined, with
overlapping functions and poor coordination among the different levels of government. All three
instances of government are involved in financing and managing education at all four levels (pre-
school, primary, secondary and higher), and the enrollment shares and division of responsibilities
are different for each level. Primary education enrollments are divided amonig schools run by
municipalities (35 percent), states (55 percent), and the private sector (10 percent). One of the
major problems in primary education is that there is no coordination of planning between state
and municipal systems, with the result that excess classrooms exist in many areas and other areas
go underserved.
1.23         Clientelism and nepotism, rather than competency and need, have traditionally
driven education sector management in Brazil. Education officials and teachers, especially those
in municipal systems, have often been hired on the basis of family or political connections,
irrespective of qualifications. This practice is changing throughout Brazil, but it remains a
tradition to contend with in smaller municipalities and in less-developed regions, such as the
Northeast. At the state level, nepotism is somewhat less pronounced (today, most state-level
teachers enter the profession via qualifying exams, called concursos), but clientelism and over-
staffing are still prevalent. In several Northeast states there is one education employee for every
six or seven students enrolled (elsewhere in Latin America, such ratios are commonly 1:20 or
more).
1.24         Inadequate and/or Inefficient Spending on Primary Education. Total education
funding by all levels of government in Brazil amounts to about 4 percent of GDP, which is



- 7 -
relatively low3 for Latin America, and especial!y for a country of Brazil's per capita income.
Average spending per primary student nationally - about US$250 per year - is also
comparatively low, and, as noted earlier, varies greatly with regional percaita income and local
revenue capacity. Some municipal systems, particularly in the Northeast and North, spend as
little as US$30 per student annually, and the poorer states also spend well below the national
average. Such under-funded systems cannot pay salaries adequate to attract competent teachers or
administrative personnel and the amount of money available for books, school repairs (including
such basics as functioning sanitary facilities) and other materials is grossly inadequate. Many
municipal school systems in Northeast Brazil pay teachers less than US$20 per month; reflecting
this, close to half of all municipal school teachers in the Northeast have themselves not completed
basic school.
1.25         Even in those state and municipal systems where overall funding levels are
relatively high, expenditures are usually heavily skewed to personnel costs and allocations for
instructional materials and school maintenance are minimal. In most cases, the high share of
spending on personnel is the result of overstaffing, rather than high average salaries. Indeed, in
most Brazilian school systems, overstaffing has been associated with the progressive compression
of average salaries, so the quality of teachers, administrators and supervisors has gradually
declined and people with specialized skills (computer specialists, financial planners, etc.) cannot
be attracted. Finally, since job tenure is not linked to performance, employees at all levels have
little accountability or incentives to perform; it is commonplace for employees on a 40 hour per
week contract in the Northeast to work no more than 15 hours per week. Most of these problems
affect the civil service generally in Brazil, but they are especially visible in the education sector,
which generally accounts for 40-50 percent of total state employment and an even higher share of
municipal employment.
1.26         Lack of Books and Educational Materials. Responsibility for textbook provision
to schools in Brazil is centralized at the federal level and handled by the Prograna Nacional do
Livro Didactico (PNLD) under the auspices of the Fundaco de Assstancia ao Estudante (FAE),
which is also responsible for school lunch provision. A background study of textbook distribution
in Brazil undertaken during project preparation estimated that for primary school alone, national
textbook requirements are on the order of 100 to 120 million books each year. In 1992, FAE
distributd 8.8 million books, or less than 10 percent of the estimated need. Although in some
years textbook provision has been higher, on average over the last five years, less than onethird
of the estimated national textbook requirements have been met by FAE. However, given the
uncertainty about what level of books FAE will sn jply, states and municipalities, with limited
education funding, are reluctant to step in themselves and procure textbooks for their school
systems. The study also found that supplementary reading materials (enteaning fiction or
nonfiction books and picture books to stimulate reading and literacy skill development in young
children) are scarce or nonexistent in Brazilian classrooms. Writing paper and other consumable
school supplies are also provided only sporadicaUy and in inadequate quantities by FAE.
However, as writing paper and notebooks are readily available and relatively inexpensive, parents
are more likely to buy these for their children than textbooks.
1.27         The primary causes of inadequate provision of textbooks and supplementary
reading materials provision are irregular funding of the FAE programs by the federal government
3.    The average for Latin America is 4.24% of GDP.



-8 -
and institutional weaknesses in FAE that undermine the agency's ability to negotiate advantageous
contracts with Brazilian publishers. Funding for FAE in the past five years has been extremely
irregular, with final allocations bearing no systematic relationship to the agency's budget r-quest,
but always insufficient for requirements. In addition to problems with the level of funding, the
release of funds often very late in the budget year has created serious difficulties for book
procurement. FAE cannot actually order books until funding is secure, and this is often only a
few months prior to the start of the new school year. The resulting rush to procure books quickly
(necessitating costly overtime premia for publishers), combined with FAE's lack of appropriately
trained production staff (staff familiar with the raw materials and processes involved in
production, techniques of business management and estimating the costs of production runs, and
budgeting) means that FAE cannot effectively negotiate contracts for the best books at the lowest
prices. Consequently, the textbook publishers gain excessive leverage in selection and price
negotiations. In the end, too few books are procured given the amount of funding provided, and
they are procured too late in the year to assure delivery at the start of the next school year.
Several times in recent years, students have gone without textbooks for consecutive years and then
received books in the last month of the school year. An additional technical problem is that the
production specifications for books are so low, relative to the use the books receive, that textbook
longevity rarely exceeds one year, even though FAE continues to budget on the basis of a three-
year book life.
1.28         Other important problems with the current system concern book selection and
distribution. Under the current system, schools select books from a FAE catalogue; these orders
are then consolidated by the state secretariats who procure the orders from the manufacturers. The
FAE list, however, is all-inclusive; any publisher may get its books added to the list, without any
review of books' educational value, production quality or costs. Teachers make their selections
from a list (over 2,000 titles long) of books, with no descriptions, cost or quality information.
With respect to distribution, for many years FAE relied on state and municipal governments to
distribute books to the schools and there were many documented cases of losses. In 1992 the
agency began using the postal service for distribution, which by all accounts worked well,
although the volume of books distributed was very small. For 1993, the agency again intends to
use the postal service for direct distribution to the schools, but it remains to be seen if the service
can handle larger volumes.
1.29         FAE also handles the national school lunch program. Although the provision of
school feeding does not have the same critical importance for student learning as adequate access
to textbooks and reading books, school lunch provision in Brazil, as in many other developing
countries, does have a positive effect on student attendance rates. International research also
demonstrates that providing students - and particularly undernourished ones - with caloric intake
during the school day can improve their concentration, and thus help the learning process. The
school lunch program in Brazil has an annual budget about ten times higher than the textbook
program budget, but it is plagued by many of the same problems. Because of irregular funding,
lunch provision is frequently interrupted. Because procurement is centralized, the program relies
on powdered foods that can be shipped more easily throughout the country, but many nutritionists
have argued that better nutrition and better student acceptance, at lower costs, could be
guaranteed if schools could use fresh foodstuffs procured locally.
1.30         No systematic evaluation has ever been done of the cost-effectiveaess of the
centralized school lunch program, but many state and municipal education officials have criticized
the chronic interruptions in provision, political interference in the program (directing the food to



-9-
some jurisdictions and not others) and substantial "losses' of food, both in transit and from
degradation or pests in the schools, which often do not have storage facilities adequate to keep
food dry and secure between deliveries. It is also questionable whether the high storage and
transport costs of shipping food across a country as large as Brazil are really exceeded by
economies of scale in food procurement. Some states, such as Sio Paulo have pulled out of the
FAE program and assumed responsibility for their own school feeding programs. FAE has had
some modest programs in the past to decentralize or "municipalize" the school lunch program, by
transferring funds to the municipal school systems (which transferred funds to the schools), so
that these could buy their own foodstuffs. However, the cost-effectiveness of these alternative
approaches has never been evaluated either. Given the high political visibility and popularity of
the school lunch program, the federal government to date has not seriously considered devolving
it to lower levels of government. However, in light of the large amount of money currently spent
on the national centralized school lunch program (about US$800 million per year), a serious study
of its cost-effectiveness and the evaluation of alternative approaches is overdue.
1.31         Inappropriate Teaching Strategies and the "Culture of ReDetition'. Teachers in
Brazil are socialized to assume that a substantial part of their job is to weed out the good students
from the bad. Pedagogical standards are demanding and very inflexible. For example, children
are expected to learn to read and write in the first year of primary school, despite the fact that
most have not attended pre-school and many low-income children have never seen a book. The
concept - common in developed countries - of giving remedial assistance to children lagging
behind, is alien to Brazilian teachers, and classroom management techniques for helping children
of differential ability such as small group work, after-school sessions, and cross-peer tutoring are
virtually nonexistent.
1.32         Repetition rates are fairly consistent across states and regions in Brazil, despite
regional variations in the absolute level of student achievement measured on standardized tests;
thus, it seems to reflect teachers' expectations about the proportion of students that should pass,
rather than the actual level of student performance. Research in both developed and developing
countries suggests strongly that repetition negatively affects student learning, because it is
inefficient (students may have mastered part of the curriculum, but they have to repeat aU of it),
and it demotivates students, both by increasing their boredom and lowering their self-esteem.
1.33         The culture of repetition hurts low-income students worst. Studies show that
students repeating first grade and overage in subsequent grades in Brazil are disproportionately
from the lowest-income deciles. This is understandable, given lower rates of pre-school coverage
among children from poor families and their deprived environments at home. Some studies also
suggest that discriminaton from teachers is also a factor. Whether or not this is true, higher rates
of repetition and consequently dropout among Uhildren from lower-income groups are a major
contributing factor to Brazilian income inequality, and a constraint to labor productivity and
economic growth as well.
G.    Govermnent Straeg in Eductong
1.34         Improving the quality of basic education has been a high priority of the federal
government for the past several years. In general, there is increasing recognition in Brazil that
the crtical problems of overall low education ainment and relatively high (25-30 percent) adult
illiterac of the Brazflian population are rooted in the poor quality and low productivity of the
public basic education system. To improve the quality of basic education, the Ministry has



- 10-
adopted a two-pronged strategy: i) improving the quality of the principal (and, sometimes, sole)
educational input - teachers; and ii) developing an integrated school model intended to address
the education, health and nutrition needs of poor children, which are badly served by the
traditional public schools.
1.35         With respect to teacher training, the Ministry is currently formulating a national
program to be executed by universities, state secretariats and, possibly, other agents, using
alternative educational technologies, such as educational television and distance education. To
provide better educational services to low-income children, MEC has launched a new national
program of support for CAICs (Centros de Atenrao Integral a Crianfa e ao Adolescente),
modeled after a program first developed in the state of Rio de Janeiro. Like Rio's "CIEP"
schools, CAIC schools are targeted to slum neighborhoods, use specially designed buildings, offer
a longer school day (a minimum of six hours per day), and a diversified curriculum, with strong
emphasis on arts and music. The original CIEP program also trained teachers to adopt more
flexible pedagogical approaches, attuned to the developmental needs of individual children, and
stressed the importance of giving low-income children positive messages in order to improve their
self-esteem. Hopefully, these elements of the program will not be lost as it is implemented on a
national scale.
1.36         The Ministry of Education has also recently instituted a number of policy changes
designed to improve the efficiency and accountability of federal education spending. In late 1991,
after completing an evaluation of the operations of the FNDE, the Ministry concluded that FNDE
was not fulfilling its re-distributive role, in terms of equalizing state and municipal spending on
basic education, and that funds were often transferred without clear criteria. Consequently, the
Ministry of Education established need-based, objective criteria for FNDE transfers and has
publicized these in a document called Sstemadcapara o Financonento dos Projetos na Area da
EducaCao Bdsica. These criteria are: i) the size of the school-aged population in each state; and
ii) state per ag  income, in order to improve equity. The Ministry has also decided that
FNDE should play more of a role in supporting investments that improve the quality of schooling,
such as teacher training, and educational "software* (books and materials), and not just school
construction.
1.37         These changes constitute important policy shifts from past administrations of
MEC, in directions we believe are highly positive. For its 1993 education transfers, the Ministry
has also developed special "premia" for states and municipalities which adopt measures to
improve school effectiveness and to professionalize the teaching force (including such steps as
setting competency criteria for recruitment and promotions and improving average salaries).
H.    Bank Role and Strategy
1.38                The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to support policies and
investments that witl encourage economic growth and social development in a context of
macroeconomic stability. Our lending program strongly emphasizes the social sectors in Brazil,
because we believe that Brazil has significantly underinvested in human resource development in
the past. Extremely low levels of educational attainment undermine Brazil's potential for long-
term economic growth and appear to be a contributing factor to Brazil's high degree of income
inequality, which threatens the evolution of a stable, democratic society. In all sectors, our
strategy for Brazil emphasizes increased efficiency of public spending and, in the social sectors,
better targeting and expanded delivery of services to the poor.



- 11 -
1.39         The focus of the Bank's education strategy in Brazil is investment in primary
education, because the country has far to go to achieve universal completion of primary
education, and because primary education has the highest social returns and the greatest potential
for increasing the equity of economic opportunity in Brazil. Within primary education, we have
followed a two-pronged strategy: i) to assist regions of the country where education quality
problems are most acute, and ii) to support the introduction and evaluation of innovative
approaches to primary education quality that can serve as a model for school systems elsewhere in
Brazil. The recently effective Sao Paulo Innovations In Basic Education Project serves the
latter objective; the project is supporting new pedagogical approaches designed to reduce
repetition, innovative pre-school programs targeted to low-income children, and cost-effective
school health interventions. The project also provides for a major program of research on the
learning impact and cost-effectiveness of these different interventions.
1.40         With respect to the first prong of our strategy, our highest priority is clearly the
Northeast, where human resources are least developed and education systems are weakest.
Reflecting this priority, we have for several years continued to invest resources in the
development of the present project as well as its proposed sister project, Northeast Basic
Education HI, even during long periods when federal government support for the projects
appeared uncertain.
I.    Lessons Learned from Past Projects
1.41         World Bank lending to Brazil for education began in the early 1970s. Initially,
Bank lending emphasized skills training, especially at the secondary level; early projects were in
the areas of vocationally-oriented secondary, technical, and agricultural education. More recent
projects involved assistance to the federal technical schools and state-level technical schools
(Technician Training, 1983), basic research at federal universities (Science and Technology,
1985), and the SENAI/SENAC system (Skills Formation, 1987). Both the Technician Training
and Skills Formation projects suffered from slow execution and ended up being canceled at the
request of the Government last year. Our assessment is that these projects' slow execution
reflected lack of interest on the part of the federal government, perhaps because the amount of
World Bank financing was marginal in comparison with overall federal funding for the secondary
technical schools and the SENAI/SENAC system. In any event, additional projects of this type are
not contemplated, given the emphasis on basic education in our strategy for Brazil.
1.42         In line with a shift in overall World Bank policy, Bank lending to Brazil in the
1980s focused increasingly on primary education, particularly in disadvantaged regions. Our first
primary education project was the Northeast Basic Education I Project, known as ED)URURAL.
This US$32 million loan, approved in 1980, sought to improve primary schools in rural areas of
the Northeast through financing of classroom construction and upgrading, provision of textbooks
and other teaching materials, in-service teacher training, and institutional strengthening in selected
poor municipalities throughout the nine Northeast states. An important feature of the project was
support for large-scale, longitudinal study to evaluate the impact on student learning and the cost-
effectiveness of the various types of investment financed by the project. Key conclusions were
that texook provision and school upgrading are highly efficient investments - in fact, each
doll,r invested in these areas under the project actually more than paid for itself in terms of



- 12 -
budgetary savings in the project states due to lower student repetition.4 Although it proved
impossible to carry out the same kind of impact and cost-effectiveness evaluation of teacher
training provided under the project, the project experience does support the following
observations. First, student achievement on standardized tests was highly correlated with teacher
competency - as measured by teachers' performance on the same tests. Second, in some rural
areas of the Northeast, teacher quality was so poor that the teachers scored lower than their
students. Third, the impact of much of the training provided under the project - largely oriented
to improving teachers' subject matter knowledge and gaining primary school equivalency - was
limited, as many teachers subsequently left for better-paid jobs in other sectors.
1.43         The EDURURAL project ended in 1987. Our overall evaluation is that the
project succeeded in bringing additional books and other inputs to rural schools, and these had
measurable and highly cost-effective impacts on both student learning and overall education
spending in the project areas. However, the sustainability of these investments was limited by the
absence of changes in teacher hiring, salaries, and overall financing (for example, inadequate
funding for books and maintenance) that are fundamental factors in the low quality of rural
schools. Also, while the package of investments delivered under the project had a dramatic
imnact on individual rural schools, overall the project's resources were very dispersed (reaching
less than one in five municipalities in the nine states), and had almost no impact on the
functioning of state and municipal education systems in the Northeast. In line with this
assessment, the proposed Northeast Basic Education IH and m projects emphasize a more systemic
approach, with emphasis on the overall financing and management of education in the selected
states, and explicit attention to developing states' capacity for sustained investment in education
quality after the project period.
1.44         The US$40 million Bank loan in support of the Urban Basic Education Project
(known as Monhangara) was approved in 1983. The project's main objectives were to support
the expansion and improve the quality of primary school systems in rapidly-growing urban areas
in the North and Center-west states. Investments under the project were targeted to low-income
neighborhoods. After numerous delays and a two-year extension, the project ended in early 1991,
and approximately 18 percent of the Bank loan was canceled. Our evaluation of the project is
that the investments it financed did positively affect education access and quality in the region, but
that insufficient investments were made at the municipal level, because the municipalities lacked
the technical capacity to submit adequate quality proposals and states had no incentive to assist
them.
1.45         The US$72 million loan for a Sdence and Technology Project, approved in 1985
and a US$150 million loan for the follow-on Science Research and Training Project (approved
in 1990) provided support for scientists engaged in basic research. Major conclusions from these
projects are that the Bank's involvement in a sector can be instrumental in encouraging the
government to adopt major institutional changes, in this case, the adoption of an objective and
depoliticized 'peer review' system for science research funding. The third education project that
4.    See Gomes-Neto, J.B., and Eric Hanushek, -Grade Repettion, Wastage and Educational Policy",
March 1991 (processed); Armitage, Jane, Jobo B. F. Gomes-Neto, Ralph Harbison, Donald
Holsinger, and Raimundo Leite, -School Quality and Achievement in Rural Brazil", World Bank
Education and Training Series No. ED1T5, 1986; and Habison, R.W., and Eric Hanushek,
Educational Performance of the Poor: l.ossons from Ru  Northeat Bg, World Bank/Oxford
University Pross, 1992.



- 13-
we have under supervision at present, the recently effective, US$245 million Innovations in
Basic Education Project, is too recently initiated for any judgements about its impact or
effectiveness. Like EDURURAL, the Innovations project includes an important research and
evaluation component that will contribute to our understanding of what types of education
investments are most cost-effective in helping low-income children to learn and to perform better
in school.
1.46         A general lesson from our past education projects which is also supported by our
project experience in the health sector in Brazil is that keeping project design as simple as
possible facilitates project execution and increases the likelihood of project success. Given the
extremely weak institutions of Northeast Brazil, the overwhelming problems of education quality
in the region, and the inherent difficulties of administering a multi-state project which involves
multiple levels of government, a guiding principle has been to try to keep both the proposed
Northeast Basic Education H and Northeast Basic Education m projects focused on a few key
objectives, and to keep project fincing arrangements as equally simple. Simplicity in project
design has been explicitly pursued at the expense of many other possible worthwhile investments
in education quality, such as support for pre-schooling, school health and nutrition interventions,
or research, such as are being supported under the Sao Paulo Innovations Project). However, we
believe that while a more comprehensive project design is feasible in a stzste such as Sao Paulo,
which has relatively strong administrative capacity, such approaches are inappropriate in the
Northeast.
j                                  II~~~~~~~. l3lEPROJlECT
i        ~~A.    Project Objectve
2.1          The overall goals of this project and its sister project, Northeast Basic Education
II (US$207 million, FY 94), are to increase student learning, reduce repetition and dropout, and
increase primary school graduation rates in the Northeast. To achieve these goals, the project
will provide a package of essnt  educational inputs to all public school children in the first four
grades in the project states, and will support improvements in the efficiency of education
management. The two projects have the same objectives and design; the fundamental difference
is that they will support different Northeast states. The four states to be supported under
Northeast It (Cearg, Maranhio, Sergipe and Pernambuco - See Annex 4 for a background
description of the education sector in these states) were selected jointly by the Bank and MEC
based on two criteria: i) the quality and innovativeness of the five year investment plans they
submitted in March 1992, and ii) their commitment to implementing major reforms of state
education administration. The five states not selected for Northeast H are eligible for inclusion in
Northeast m, but inclusion is not automatic. We and the Ministry believe that this "competitive
model" for the selection of states is an important stimulus for states to undertake the politically
difficult administrative reforms and st  retrenchments necessary for improving the efficiency of
state education management.
2.2           The Northeast states were divided into two separate projects for two reasons.
First, the involvement of multiple states and three levels of government (federal, state and
municipal) necessarily complicates project execution and supervision. Second, these projects seek
to achieve meaningful change in two areas where change is extremely difficult: the management
and efficiency of state education bureaucracies, and the teaching/learning process in a large
number of state and municipal primary schools. For these reasons, it was considered advisable to



- 14 -
divide the states into two groups. Even so, these projects will require more than average
supervision activity on the part of the Bank.
2.3           The projects focus on grades 1-4 of primary school because these are currently the
critical bottleneck in Brazilian education; about 75 percent of primary students in the Northeast
are concentrated in the first four grades, and most students never advance past these four grades.
This approach is designed to ensure that project resources achieve a significant impact on the
quality of education in these critical early grades, rather than a more diffuse impact across the full
eight year priary cycle.
2.4           The projects will be executed for the most part by state education secretariats in
the Northeast. However, given the fact that municipal schools account for a larger share of
primary enr, .nments in the region and have worse conditions, on average, than state schools, all
of the project :-nvestments in school quality (textbook provision, teacher training, school
construction and rehabilitation) will equally cover municipal and state schools. Because state and
municipal education systems historically have been quite independent and investments often ill-
coordinated, an important objective of the project is to help states improve the efficiency of their
education management and to develop a capacity for coordination, oversight, technical assistance,
and financial intermediation vis-a-vis the hundreds of municipal school systems in the Northeast.
As part of project preparation, the Ministry of Education required the states to prepare five year
"integrated" investment plans which identified priority investments at the municipal, as well as the
state, level. Through the states, the project will also provide some technical assistance to
municipal education secretariats to help these improve management efficiency. Finally, the
criteria established for municipal school systems to receive investment support under the project
create incentives for municipalities to adopt management reforms similar to those being
encouraged at the state level.
B.    Project Components
2.5           The Northeast II project consists of a state-level program (97 percent of project
costs) to be carried out by the four states, and a national program (3 percent of project costs) to
be executed by the Ministry of Education (MEC).
2.6           The state level program will:
a)     help states streamline their education bureaucracies and achieve a more efficient
allocation of spending;
b)    increase state and municipal primary school students' access to textbooks,
workbooks, reading books, and other instructional materials;
c)    support training to improve the skills and classroom effectiveness of state and
municipal primary teachers as well as the management skills of school directors;
d)    finance, on a matching basis, a time-slice of states' five year school rehabilitation
and construction programs, conditional upon state progress in implementing
agreed management reforms; and



- 15 -
e)    support, evaluate and disseminate ilnovative programs proposed by the project
states and municipalities to improve primary education quality.
2.7    The national program will:
a)    strengthen the Ministry of Education's capacity for key oversight and support
functions, such as establishment of national educational quality norms; research
and curriculum development; financial transfers to equalize education spending
across states; technical assistance to help states achieve national educational
quality norms; and project coordination;
b)    support the establishment of a national system of standardized student achievement
testing (SAEB); and
c)    support reform of the centralized national textbook distribution program and
national school lunch distribution program currently administered by FAE, in
order to assure timely and adequate availability of leaning materials in state and
municipal primary schools throughout Brazil, and more efficient provision of
school lunches.
C.    Project Descrition
1.    STATE-LEVEL PROGRAM (US$367 million induding contingencies)
(A) Education Management Component (US$ 20.4 million including contingencies)
2.8          Under this component, the project wfll finance technical assistance, training, and
equipment (including computers) to assist states in: i) reorganizing and streamlining their
education secretariats; ii) achieving a significant improvement in the efficiency of education
spending; and iii) modernizing education management.
2.9          Streamlining Education Bureaucracies. As part of project preparation in early
1992 each of the nine Northeast states, assisted by management consultants, carried out a
management audit of its state education secretariat. Each state produced a diagnostic study and a
comprehensive Action Plan for Increasing Management Efficiency. The studies identified
inefficiencies in the use of human resources as a major issue in all four states, although the nature
and degree of their problems differed. Specifically, the studies found evidence of significant
overstaffing in education secretariats of three of the four states, excess numbers of administrative
and support-level staff relative to the number of teachers, excess concentrations of teachers
performing administrative functions in hwdquarters and district offices, rather than teaching in the
schools, and maldistribution of staff across urban and rural school districts. The ratio of students
enrolled to total staff employed by state education secretariats ranged from 8:1 in the state with
worst overstaffing to 18:1 in the state with least overstaffing. In some states, less than half of
employees on the state education payroll were classroom teachers, indicating excessive numbers
of administrative and support workers. Ihe diagnostic studies provided initial estimates of the
excess in various staffing categories (i.e., teachers, administrators, support workers) ranging from
10 to 30 percent by category.



- 16-
2.10         To address these issues, each state at appraisal agreed to freeze personnel numbers
in its education secretariat at the July 1992 level, and to work towards bringing staffing levels in
line with staffing norms developed by the Ministry of Education. As a general overall target,
states agreed to try to move their overall staffing ratios closer to 20:1, which is a ratio of student-
to-staff found in education systems elsewhere in Latin America and in other regions in Brazil that
are characterized by reasonable education quality and greater efficiency of human resource use.
Prior to negotiations, a technical commission established by the Ministry of Education visited each
state and verified that each state had observed the agreed hiring freeze. Each state also
established annual targets acceptable to MEC and the Bank for improving its staffing efficiency
over the project period, called Annual Management Efficiency Targets (AMETs). At negotiations,
each state provided a letter of commitment from its Governor to these AMETs, which are
included in Annex 5. The annual staffing ratio targets established by the states are based on the
assumptions of continued enrollment growth and gradual annual reduction in the numbers of staff
employed by the Secretariat, achieved by not filling all vacancies that arise from retirement and
other departures from service, and by creating incentives for staff on secondment or leave to
transfer or depart from service. On this basis, each state secretariat will achieve improvements in
its staffing ratio (the ratio of total enrollments to total staff employed by the secretariat) over the
project period. In order for these actions to translate into higher efficiency, it is critically
important for the states to rationalize the allocation of staff, to improve overall personnel
policies, and address the structure of salaries and incentives. The project would provide specific
technical assistance to support this strengthening of human resources management, as described
below.
2.11         Increasing Spending Efficiency. The management studies indicated that another
important source of inefficiency was the extreme imbalance in al four states between spending on
personnel and spending on other important education inputs, both recurrent and investment. In all
states, personnel spending absorbed more than 95 percent of the total state education budget.
Spending on other materials (mcluding books, chalk, didactic materials, etc.) rarely represented
more than 1 percent of the budget and investment spending (including maintenance) also was
generally only about 1 percent of the budget. Research throughout the world has shown that
education effectiveness depends to an important degree on the availability of books and other
materials, and the EDURURAL project research demonstrated a significant link between student
learning and the minimal adequacy of a school's physical plant. For these reasons, the states have
committed themselves to achieving over the project period gradual improvements in the budgetary
balance between spending on personnel and spending on books and other educational materials.
Annuzl targets for improving states' materials raios are also among the Annual Management
Effciny Targets.
2.12         ME                   M            Finally, the management studies pointed
out weaknesses in states' processing of information, organization, administrative systems and
controls, and physical planning. The studies set out a number of detailed, time-bound
recommendations for organizational and management changes tha! the states could implement over
an 18 month period. The states have reviewed these, and have established priorities for
implementation, identified additional actions needed, and detailed the training and technical
assistance activities required to support implementation of these management reforms, which will
be financed by the project. As a condition of Board presentation, each state prepared a draft
Operational Plan for the Education Management component of the project, with detailed activities
and costs for the first year and these drat plans were discussed during negotiations. A condition



- 17-
of effctiveness is submission by each state of a final version of its Operational Plan acceptable to
the Bank (para. 6.2).
2.13         Pect Activitie. The education management component will support the state
secretariats of education (SEs) in: (a) strengthening educational and financial planning capacity;
(b) improving human resources management; (c) establishing school-level education quality
monitoring systems; and (d) developing integrated management information systems. In addition,
the component will provide support to the project support unit in the secretariat of each state.
i) Educational and Flinandal Planning (US$4.4 million, including contingencies)
2.14         The practice of educational planning-that is, the practice of systematically using
information to manage the education system-is virtually nonexistent in the project states. Staff in
the SEs lack the tools, techniques, and culture to carry out systematic data collection and
tabulation, data analysis, financial analysis, monitoring, and project or program development to
address anticipated system needs. Without an effective planning function, the SEs will remain
incapable of designing and implementing strategies to improve the allocation of staff and material
resources, reduce disparities, assure that state and municipal schools meet findamental (i.e.,
minimal) quality standards, undertake routine maintenance, and assist municipal education
directorates in planning the location of new schools and expansion or rehabilitation of existing
ones. This component will help establish an effective planning unit in each SE, capable of
analyzing financial and system uata and developing plans for school construction and maintenance,
materials and human resources deployment, resources mobilization and allocation.
2.15         By the end of the project, staff in each SE will be able to carry out routine
reviews of system conditions and performance, forecast enrollment changes, employ basic
planning models (such as prepackaged spreadsheets) to project the services needed to meet these
changes and to estimate the costs associated with these services, specify strategies for acquiring
and deploying resources to meet the new demands, recommend (prioritize) strategies or
interventions to senior managers, develop operational plans to implement the selected strategy,
and monitor the implementation and impact of the selected strategy. In addition, as a result of
this component, state planners and municipal education secretaries will conduct joint exercises to
estimate enrollment trends and to design integrated sector investment programs.
2.16         To achieve these objectives, the education management component will finance
studies, training, and technical assistance to provide education planners with the tools and skills
they need to carry out their planning function effectively. A study will be financed to define
fundamental (i.e., minimal) scbool quality standards for all state and municipal schools and
administrative units with respect to deployment and level of human, material, and physical
resources. The subcomponent will finance training in the basic principles of statistics, financW
modelling, school mapping, educational administration, computer applications, and information-
based decision making. Technical assistance will be provided to help planners apply practical
tools to forecast trends in demographics, and model the impact of demographic changes or policy
changes on enrollments, costs, and outcomes. Funding will also be provided for training
technical staff in municipal education secretariats, and to support joint investment planning with
municipal school systems.



- 18 -
ii) lluman Resources Management (US$4.2 million, including contingencies)
2.17         As the management audits showed, inefficient management of human resources
significantly hinders the project states' ability to deliver basic education services effectively.
Although redundancy characterizes the system as a whole, distribution is lumpy, with deficiencies
in specific geographic and disciplinary areas. Shortages are explained partly by the general
scarcity of qualified personnel, but also by constraints on the SE's capacity to manage a rational
personnel allocation system. Major constraints in the project states are the lack of timely,
accurate information about real hours worked in comparison to formally contracted working hours
for teaching staff, updated staffing allocations for individual schools and administrative units by
professional status, disciplinary background, training, and updated leave, secondment and
remuneration status of significant numbers of secretariat personnel, including both those currently
on and off the payroll. Moreover, data compiled through the central payroll mechanism is not
operationally accessible to the SEs for management or planning purposes. Even worse, incentive
systems are often highly distortionary, providing an arcane array of remuneration possibilities,
including salary, allowances and bonuses, acquired rights and benefits, many of which stymie
efficient personnel management by, for example, encouraging qualified teachers to abandon
classroom positions for administrative assignments.
2.18         This subcomponent will help state managers establish and maintain up-to-date
personnel record systems, deploy staff on a rational basis, and improve the personnel incentive
system, consequently improving productivity at all management levels (schools, regional offices,
and departments in the secretariat). Activities to be financed include studies and surveys,
training, and technical assistance. Studies include, inter alia: a review of the quality and
timeliness of the personnel census database (and its correspondence with the payroll database); an
assessment of procedures and practices in the personnel/human resources department of the
secretariat; a sample survey of staffing requirements and salary schedules by functional task; and
an analysis of state policies and practices in personnel compensation and incentives. In addition
to these studies, the subcomponent will finance training of senior staff in the personnel department
in a variety of areas related to human resources management, including records management,
personnel management (i.e., recruitment, promotion, performance incentives, and staff
evaluation), education administration, applied informatics, and information-based decision making.
Technical assistance will be provided for implementing the recommendations of the studies.
iii) School Quality Monitoring (US$3.2 million, including contingencies)
2.19          State secretariats in the project states are currently unable to track the quality and
performance of schools, either in the state system or the municipal system. The lack of
systematic information on school characteristics, annual resource inputs, and staffing profiles
impedes the development of strategies to improve educational quality in the region. This
subcomponent will establish a basic monitoring system of state and municipal schools in order to
develop up-to-date school profiles containing information on school-level expenditures, textbooks
and other material resources, enrollments, student flows, staff deployment, and other factors. It
would compare these profiles with the fundamental quality standards established by planners,
permitting the Secretariat to determine the additional inputs needed to bring each sub-standard
school up to the established standard, and the costs associated with these additional requirements.
It will also provide the information needed to monitor project execution by revealing, for
example, if textbooks were actually received by the schools on time and if teachers received
training, etc. The subcomponent will finance technical assistance to help staff in the secretariat



- 19 -
implement the minimum standards identified by education planners, efficiently monitor the
system's achievement of these standards, and develop transparent systems for informing the public
about the standards and achievement of the standards and the quality of local schools.
iv) Integrated Management Information Systems (US$6.3 million, including contingencies)
2.20         "Data management" in the four project states is almost nonexistent. What data
systems exist (ayroll records, for example) are usually managed by the state secretariat for
administration and are unlinked to other education data. In many cases dati is still processed
manually; it is not up-to-date or reliable, and in all cases extremely difficult to integrate. For
example, in all four states education managers at present are unable to draw on their data systems
to assess actual teaching costs, average teacher earnings, teaching hours per student, or even
teacher/student ratios. Effective information-based management in the SEs requires that basic
data and information on schools, personnel, finances, etc, be readily available to planners and
senior managers. In addition, information-based management requires that data be integrated and
cross-checked across all of the SE's divisions or functions-such as personnel management,
materials management, infrastructure, planning, financial management, etc.
2.21         By the end of the project, key units or divisions in the SEs, including those
responsible for education planning, personnel management, financial systems (accounts), materials
management, and civil works, will be able to draw on information from a single, integrated
education management information system. The subcomponent will finance tools to manage
information (hardware and software), training and technical assistance. Technical assistance will
support: system design and development of an integrated, computerized relational database of
personnel, materials, and facilities; advice on hardware and software spe ifications; installation,
testing the new systems (hardware and software); and routine as well as emergency maintenance
of hardware and software. The subcomponent will finance microcomputer systems, local area
networks linking the systems, relational database software and other computer programs required
to manage the data and the exchange information. Training under this subcomponent will focus
on survey instrument development, data gathering and compilation procedures, data entry (for
lower-level stat and computer literacy (for all levels of statf), operating the newly-developed
information management system, relational database management, computer file maintenance, and
office technology techniques.
v) State-Level Project Support Units (US$ 2.3 million, including contingencies)
2.22         This subcomponent will finance technical assistance, studies, and equipment
required by the state level units responsible for coordinating :he project, UEESPs (Unidades
Estaduais Encarregadas de Suporte ao Projeto). The tasks of the project support unit will include
monitoring the states' progress in implementing their operational glans (which have now been
developed for all state-level project components) and Annual Management Efficiency Targets, and
providing periodic computerized reports on project execution to the project unit in the Ministry of
Education. The project will finance consultant assistance, equipment, and travel. The salaries of
full-time unit staff will be paid by the states as part of project counterpart funding.
2.23         Performance Indicators. Two types of performance indicators will be used to
monitor implementation of the education management component in each state: i) indicators of
key accomplishments and ii) outcome indicators. Annex 8 provides a detailed description of
proposed key accomplishment tndicaors, along with instruments to be used to collect data on



- 20 -
these indicators. The UEESPs will be responsible for updating these indicators annually and
submitting their completed reports by May 31 of each year to MEC and the Bank for review.
The second type of Indicator, outcome Indicators, corresponding to the "activities" specifled under
each subcomponent in the operational plans for the educational management component in each
state, are being established on the basis of the states' final operational plans for the education
management component. The outcome indicators will be used primarily by MEC to assure that
the project is being implemented as planned, to indicate bottlenecks or problems, and to provide
data for making adjustments in project execution.
(B) Educational Materials Component (US$116 million including contingencies)
2.24         A major aim of the project is to create a new and richer learning environment in
Northeast primary schools, and particularly for students in the critical first four grades, to try to
get children excited about reading and learning and to help compensate for the low average
quality of teachers in the region. This will be achieved by the provision of textbooks, work
books, teachers books and classroom reading books. Research elsewhere in the world has
demonstrated that the provision of adequate supplies of textbooks and supplementary materials is
the single most cost effective factor in increasing learning achievement, particularly in situations
where teacher quality is poor. The project will also directly address the institutional and
financing problems that underlie chronic inadequate textbook provision in P.razil, through i) an
immediate program of technical assistance to help the Northeast states and FAE carry out, on a
pilot basis, a new approach to textbook provision, and ii) a major study of alternative financing
mechanisms for the national textbook system.
i)    basic set of textbooks and work books (US$63.1 million, including contingencies)
2.25         In the past five years supplies of textbooks, work books and teachers books under
the federal government's free textbook program have deteriorated sharply. Few schools in the
Northeast received any textbooks in 1990 and 1991 and supplies in 1992 were patchy, late and
confined to textbooks in grades 1 and 2 only. Workbooks were issued at the rate of only one per
class. The physical production specifications of the books have been very poor and the budgeted
book life of 3 years was never achieved, even in good schools. The net result was an acute
shortage of books, particularly in rural areas, with a very high proportion of the books available
are in extremely poor physical condition with covers and pages missing, badly torn and severely
marked. In many cases the educational value of the textbooks was negligible.
2.26         To address these problems, the project will supply two textbooks and two
workbooks per year for each state and municipal student in grades 1 and 2, and two workbooks
per year for each student in grades 3 and 4. Students in grades 3 and 4 will also be provided
with four textbooks each, but each book will be utilized, on average, for two-three years. An
explicit assumption is that textbooks for children in the first two grades and all workbooks will be
the property of the child. Although this increases recurrent costs, this policy is believed
necessary to encourage greater textbcok utilization; currently, given the extreme scarcity of
textbooks in Northeast Brazil, many teachers literally do not let the children use them, for fear of
being held accountable for losses or amage. Even though pupils in grades 3 and 4 will have to
urn in their textbooks at the end of the school year, they will be permitted to take textbooks
home during the year as needed.



-21 -
ii)   teachers' books (US$3.0 million, Including contingencies)
2.27         The project will provide two curriculum guides and three textbooks to each
teacher every 2 years. This will ensure, by the end of the proje %, that each teacher has a
curriculum guide for each subject being taught and that each teacher has a teachers' guide directly
related to the textbooks in use in the classroom. The provision of classroom storage will enable
teachers to leave these books at school when they are not in active use for class preparation, thus
extending the life of teachers' books as well.
iii)   classroom reading books (US$35.8 million, including contingencies)
2.28         Providing textbooks without supplementary reading material may not lead to the
development of a genuine interest in reading. Children need to be able to practice their reading
skills on a range of exciting and stimulating readers which appeat to their imagination and
interest. Federal and state authorities in the Northeast have recognized this and there have been
both federal reading corner projects and state reading room and library projects in the past in an
attempt to provide the essential supplementary reading material. However, the budgets provided
were always very small and relatively few schools benefitted. In rural areas, primary schools
receiving supplementary reading books were not provided with re-supply, so reading book stocks
deteriorated quickly. Finally, teachers were never systematically trained in how to use reading
books in their classrooms, for example, by dividing the class into small reading groups.
2.29         The project will supply 80-100 appropriately-selected reading books for each class
of students in the first four grades in 1993, and 20-30 additional books will be distributed to each
class in each of the subsequent years from 1994 to 1997. Production specifications for the
reading books will be upgraded to achieve maximum book life, and thus to reduce recurrent costs.
Books will be color coded by reading level to increase ease of use by teachers. When the books
are delivered, teachers will be supplied with an explanatory booklet providing information on
storage, maintenance, inventory control, usage in the classroom and strategies for encouraging use
by students. Under the Time-Slice component discussed below, the project will also fnance
classroom storage units and bookshelves.
iv)    didactic materials (US$14.2 million, including contingencies)
2.30         A limited set of didactic materials will be provided to each classroom teaching
grades 1 to 4 in state and municipal school systems. All classrooms will receive a set of maps
and posters. Classrooms teaching grades one and two witl receive additional materials, designed
to enrich the teaching-learning process for children just learning to read. These didactic materials
may include math games, alphabet blocks, puzzles, simple science kits, and other items. The
exact list of items is being defined by a commission involving all of the project states, with advice
from the Ministry of Education. School directors and teachers will receive training in the use of
these didactic materials before materials are supplied to their schools.
v)    institutional reform of textbook provision
2.31         Because of the critical importance of assuring adequate textbook availability in the
project states and the long lead time required for a complete reform of the national textbook
distribution system, the Ministry and the four project states have agreed to institute, on a pilot
basis, an alternative book selection and distribution process with assistance from international



- 22 -
consultants. An initial contract with a qualified consultant team selected by the Ministry in
consultation with the Bank was signed, with financing from UNDP, and preparation of the new
system (in anticipation of delivery of project-financed books to the schools in early 1994) is
underway. The costs of this technical assistance prior to project effectiveness (estimated at
approximately US$250,000 through June 1992) will be financed retroactively upon project
effectiveness. Because of the importance of continuity in this assistance for project
implementation, it was agreed at negotiations that the Ministry will maintain a program of
technical assistance to FAE and the states acceptable to the Bank for at least the first two years of
project implementation (para. 6.1). This new procurement system will also be used for the
Northeast III project states.
2.32         The new system involves state and municipal selection of book titles from a
regional short-list (rather than the current FAE list of over 2,000 titles), more stringent
production specifications, more competitive procurement procedures, and more state involvement
in the financing of books and didactic materials. The project aims not only to provide textbooks
but also to achieve a realistic extended life for books so that recurrent cost elements on
government will start to reduce by the end of the project, thus making free textbook provision
from government funds a more realistic and sustainable option in the fi; ure.
2.33         Under the pilot approach to textbook procurement and distribution developed for
this project, individual states will accept much greater levels of responsibility for the selection of
textbooks to be used in state and municipal schools, for the supervision and monitoring of the
procurement process, for the effective monitoring of distribution, and for the financing of book
provision. To this end, under the national component of the project (described below), technical
assistance and training to the states and to FAE would be provided to: a) develop and implement
a pilot textbook procurement and distribution system that will guarantee delivery of adequate
quantities of books to all schools in the (Northeast II and Northeast Il) project states by the
beginning of the school year; b) upgrade physical production specifications to ensure better book
life and condition in harsh rural environments; c) assure adequate classroom storage for books in
all schools; d) train teachers and school directors in basic conservation techniques to extend book
life and reduce recurrent costs; and e) provide basic textbook repair kits to each school. The
national component also includes funds for a study of alternative financing mechanisms for book
provision in Brazil. Draft terms-of-reference for this study were discussed at negotiations, and
found to be acceptable.
2.34         Perfbrmance Indicators. The main performance indicators to be used in
monitoring the implementation of the educational materials component are two key
accomplishment indicators described in Annex 8. One indicator summarizes data on how many
new books or didactic materials were received at all the schools in a particular municipality, by
municipal and by state sector. The second indicator summarizes data from the state project
procurement database on how many new books and didactic materials were delivered to all the
schools in a particular municipality, by sector. The state project support units will submit to
MEC a discrepancy analysis comparing receipts and deliveries, and comparing the receipts with
targets specified in the operational plan for this component.
(C) Training of Teachers and School Directors (UJS$28.2 million including contingencies)
2.35         The project will support two in-service training programs for state and municipal
primary school teachers, a special leadership training program for state school directors, and an



- 23 -
innovative 'school-based" training program. Training programs will cover all state and municipal
teachers of the first four grades of primary school. Training will be carried out in regional
offices of the state secretariats, offices of municipal secretariats and some schools, in order to
reach groups of teachers as close as possible to where they live and work. The project will also
help finance the establishment of a network of simple "teacher support centers" (Oficinas
Pedagogicas) in each state, that will eventually become the locus for teacher training, refresher
seminars, and other encounters. The training programs and associated materials are being
developed on a regional basis by a Central Training Group (CTI), consisting of representatives of
each of the four states, advisers from the Ministry of Education and specialized consultants.
Training will be practical, not theoretical, and involve trainees in role-playing and applied
learning. The states are also being encouraged to develop demonstration schools to help reinforce
training content. All trainees will be given pre- and post-training tests, to provide some measure
of training impact.
2.36          Training for teachers will focus on: i) effective use of the new pedagogical
materials (textbooks, reading books, and didactic materials) to be supplied under the project,
including new methods of managing class time; and ii) sensitization regarding repetition, and
exposure to new teaching strategies for reducing repetition, such as learning reinforcement for
slow learners and more flexible promotion standards. Training will be provided during one or
two-week intensive (40 hours/week) courses during teachers' summer break (January and
February). Both training courses will be followed up with refresher seminars (Encontros de
Acompanhwnento) at periodic intervals, which will provide opportunities for teachers to raise
problems they encounter in applying the new techniques and to exchange experiences. For
teachers in remote locations, self-instruction materials are being developed. Teacher training in
the use of new educational materials will be provided just before the materials are introduced into
the schools, in 1994 and 1995. It is estimated that about 50 percent of all teachers can be reached
in 1994, and the remaining 50 percent trained in 1995.
2.37          The training programs are being developed by state teams working under the
auspices of the CTG. The CTG has begun meeting regularly and will be responsible for overall
planning of the program; definition of the training modules; preparation, testing and production
of course materials, including teachers' manuals; and ex pos evaluations of training effectiveness.
The state teams are responsible for selecting and training the instructors; implementing and
supervising the program; and monitoring teachers' progress. Teacher trainers will be selected
from among the most qualified and experienced teachers and supervisors, and will receive
intensive training before providing the courses to the teachers at large.
2.38          The project will finance planning activities, development of course materials,
actual provision of instuction, including compensation to course instructors and per diems to
cover transport, food and lodging expenses for both trainers and trainees, program supervision
and evaluation activities, and refresher activities (including per diems). Each state is currently
refining, with technical assistance from the CTG, its operational plans for carrying out the teacher
training component of the project.
2.39          Leadership Training for School Directors. The leadership training program for
school directors, administrators, and technical teams from state regional offices and municipal
scretariats will combine traning in management effectiveness, planning, budgeting and
accounting, and performance evaluation of teachers with coverage of much of the substantive
content of the training programs that will be offered to teachers (i.e., new strategies for reducing



- 24 -
repetition and making more effective use of class time and educational materials). Like the
teacher training programs, the training for school directors is being developed by state teams
working on a regional basis under the auspices of the Central Training Group. Leadership
training will be a 40 hour program, offered once each year. School directors and administrators
will receive training in December, ideally in advance of the teacher training. The phasing of the
training of school directors is being coordinated with the training of teachers in their respective
schools and the delivery of educational materials to those schools. Like the teachers, all directors
and administrators will be given pre- and post-training tests.
2.40         School-Based Training. An innovative feature of this project is the introduction of
"school-based" training, which involves intensive work by a skilled team of trainers within
individual schools. This type of training focuses on the performance of the school as a unit,
teacher effectiveness and the interaction among teachers, the effectiveness of the school directors,
student performance and enthusiasm, the connection between the school and the community. In
addition to extensive classroom observations and evaluation sessions with school personnel, the
trainers will work with teachers during their classes to demonstrate new teaching techniques. The
CTG plans to develop this program during 1994 and train one team per state in how to carry out
school-based training. Each state team will train one or two additional state teams. The teams
are expected to visit about 10-15 schools per year thereafter for visits of up to two weeks each.
Schools to be visited will generally be the worst-performing schools in the state system, based
upo .i repetition and dropout rates and student achievement scores.
2.41         Performance Indicators. The performance indicators to be used in monitoring
implementation of this component are detailed in Annex 8. The first indicator summarizes data
from the school-level database on how many teachers and how many school directors were trained
in a particular municipality, by municipal and by state sector. The second indicator summarizes
data from the UEESP on how many new teachers and school directors were identified for training
and were recorded as having received training, and how many teachers and school directors were
contracted for training in each municipality, by sector. As with the educational materials
component, each state project support unit will submit to MEC a discrepancy analysis comparing
receipts and orders for training, and comparing these results with targets specified in its
operational plan for this cormponent.
(D) Time-Slice of State Investment Plans (US$198 million including contingencies)
2.42         During project preparation, each Northeast state developed a five year Integrated
State/Municipal Investment Plan (Programa Integrado de Invesdmento Estado-Mundipio, or
PIIEM) covering the period 1992-1996. An innovation of these plans is that, although developed
by the states, they were prepared in consultation with municipal education authorities and present
an 'integrated" list of priority investments in both state and municipal school systems. In general,
the plans included four major categories of investments: i) provision of textbooks and educational
materials; ii) training programs for teachers, school direcors, and supervisors; iii) technical
assistance for improving education management; and iv) school rehabilitation and construction.
Assistance to be provided under the project for the first t     categories of investments has been
described in the preceding sections (state-level components A, B, and C).
2.43         At appraisal, the portion of states' PIIEMs dealing with school rehabilitation and
construction ivestments was evaluated and agreement was reached with each state on a realistic
anna volume of construction investments for the five year project period. The US$198 million



- 25 -
Time-Slice component represents about US$13 in infrastructure investments per state and
municipal student (grades 1-4) per year over the project period, which represents a reasonable
overall allocation of expenditure for these states (roughly 10 percent of total spending per student,
per year). Although this is an increase over the average level of education infrastructure
investment these states have been able to sustain in recent years (between US$0-10 per student per
year, in the different states), it does not exceed their capacity; each of the states has at times
executed levels of investment higher than the levels proposed. The agreed levels of annual
investment for the project period are also considerably short of the backlog of investment needs in
the four states (physical school conditions in many areas are deplorable). These agreed annual
time-slice allocations for the four states are presented in Annex 2, and with details presented in
Annex 6.
2.44          The mission appraised in detail the proposed investments for each state to be
carried out during 1993. The eligibility of all four states for allocations for the flrst year of the
project was confirmed at negotiadons and the final allocations for calendar 1993 are: Cear6 (US$
7.8 million), Maranhao (US$ 12.7 million), Pernambuco (US$ 10.6 million), and Sergipe (US$
2.4 million). States' allocations for subsequent years of the Time-Slice component, however, will
be conditional upon states' atainment of their Annual Management EfflcienyTrgets and on
agreement with the Bank on the detailed investment program for the year in question. in order to
determine states' eligibility for time-slice allocations for 1994, there will be a first review of
states' progress in meeting their AMETs by no later than October 31, 1993. Thereafter, states'
performance vis-a-vis their AMETs will be evaluated by the Ministry (with consultant assistance)
by May 31 of each year, following the methodology described in the project operational manual
(para. 6.1). Based on these assessments, MEC will establish which states are eligible for time-
slice financing for the following calendar year, and will confirm by June 30 each state's time-slice
allocation. It was agreed at neotiations that MEC wi1l make these determinations in consultation
with, and in a manner satisfactory to, the Bank (para. 6.1). If a state has not met its AMETs and
MEC and the Bank determine that it is ineligible for time-slice financing for the subsequent year,
its funds will be reallocated to the extent feasible to other, better-performing states.
2.45          Once states receive confirmation of their time-slice allocations', they will prepare
proposas for a set of construction subprojects to be executed during the following year (January 1
- December 31), consistent with the guidelines set out in Annex 6. These programs, or PAls
(Programa Aniu  de Invememo), will be appraised as fbllows: by August 31, the states will
submit their draft PAls to MEC. The Ministry will review these and transmit final proposals to
the Bank by September 30. The Bank will evaluate these proposals to ensure that the programs
represent technically justified investments, adequate balance between state and municipal schools,
and do not exceed state and municipal execution capacity (based upon the implementation
experience of the prior year). The states will finalize their PAls in light of the Bank's comments
by November 30. Thus, conditin gf di mes to any state in respect of the Time-Slice
component are: i) agreement on an appraised program of state and municipal subprojects to be
executed; and ii) achievement by that state of its Annual Magen Efflciency Tre  for the
period in question (para. 6.3). Tils is similar to the approach used under the Bank-financed
Northeast Basic Health It project, currently under implementaton. A decision not to finance one
5.     During the first year of the proect, sates will begin preparing thdir draft PAls for
1994 before they recve confirmaion of teir time-slice allocations. In order to allow tm
for as' to achieve measuable progress with respect to their AMETs, during 1993 fte
AMETs will be reiowed i October, ather than May.



- 26 -
year's program of subprojects in a particular state would not prejudice the possibility of financing
future years' subprojects in that state.
2.46         Rehabilitation and construction of municipal schools is expected to represent
about 60 percent of the works financed under the project, compared to 40 percent for state
schools. The distribution of works in each state is proportional to relative enrollments in grades
14 in the state and municipal systems. Municipal works will be contracted via negotiated
agreements (convenios) between the state secretariat aud the respective municipality, similar to the
system routinely used for municipal school construction carried out with state and/or federal
financial support. The process used under this project will differ in several respects from the
usual convenios, however. First, there will be strict criteria for municipal participation in the
project, to be monitored by the states. The criteria are: i) the municipality must be in compliance
with the constitutionally-mandated requirement to spend at least 25 percent of its total budgetary
resources (including resources from federal and state transfers) on education; ii) the municipality
must agree to desist from hiring any new education staff without a competitive entrance
examination (concurso); and iii) the municipality must agree not to make any investments in
school expansion except those planned jointly with the state education secretariat. These
commitments by the municipalities will be recorded in the convenios, to be signed between the
state and municipal education secretariats. Municipalities wi1l not have to contribute their own
financing to the proposed investments. As the project funds are being passed on to the Northeast
states on a grant basis, support for municipal school rehabilitation and expansion will be provided
by the states to the municipalities on a grant basis. The state secretariats will be responsible for
strict monitoring that the municipal education secretariats carry out the specified works within the
time-frame planned and provide required procurement documentation (as specified in Annex 6).
The municipalities will be responsible for all incremental maintenance costs associated with the
project. Technical assistance to the state secretariats to strengthen their capacity to oversee
municipalities' execution of jointly-planned works is being provided under the Education
Management component of the project.
2.47         The time-slice financing of states' construction subprojects is designed to provide
an additional incentive for states to undertake the important education management reforms being
supported under the project. It also is intended to be an instrument that the Bank can use more
flexibly than its traditional remedies. Should a state fall to meet one or more of its targets for a
particular year, but show reasonable progress overall, the state would be ineligible for the time-
slice financing of construction subprojects but disbursements of the other project components
(technical assistance, provision of educational materials, teacher training) would continue.
However, in the event that a state's lack of commitment to the management reforms and project
activities outlined in its operational plan or AMETs appears unambiguous, or if implementation of
the other project components is seriously deficient, it would be appropriate to suspend all
disbursements to that state under the general remedies available to the Bank. As the time-slice
allocations for all of the four states are smaller than their absorptive capacity, reallocation of
funds across states will be feasible, if necessary.
(E) Innovations Fund (US$4 million including contingencies)
2.48          The project includes a small fund to be managed by the Ministry of Education
(under the auspices of the Secretary for Basic Education) designed to provide special
encouragement to state and municipal school systems in the Northeast which adopt promising
education innovations focused on the first four grades of primary school, particularly those aimed



- 27 -
at reducing repetition. The fund's resources may also be used by the Ministry to finance research
evaluations of innovative state and municipal education programs. Additional resources to
support this fund are included in the Northeast Basic Education Im project. Proposals will be
submitted directly by individual municipal and state secretariats to the Ministry. Grant awards
will be made at three points during the project. No more than US$1 million of the fund's
resources may be committed over the life of the project to any single project state. Draft criteria
for the evaluation of proposals and guidelines for the operations of the Innovations Fund were
discussed at negotiations and will be finalized by the end of 1993.
2.    NATIONAL PROGRAM   (US$11.6 million including contingencies)
2.49         The project will foster a new federal role in basic education by strengthening the
capacity of the Ministry of Education (MEC) to carry out key oversight and support functions In
basic education, particularly: i) systematic national evaluation of school system performance,
including standardized testing of student achievement; ii) policy analysis and dissemination of
effective educational innovations; iii) management of national education statistics; and iv) transfer
of financial resources to states and municipalities on the basis of objective criteria designed to
reduce inequalities in per student spending across different school systems and across regions.
The project will also finance studies of the centralized national textbook and school lunch
programs, and technical assistance for the pilot system of textbook provision for the Northeast
project states developed for this project. The Ministry's progress in achieving these objectives
will be monitored using the performance indicators set out in Annex 7. At negotiations, it was
F         agreed that all education funding transfers from the Ministry of Education or FNDE to the
Northeast project states during the project period will be based on the transparent and objective
criteria set out in Portana No. 1878 (Sistematica Para Financiamento de Projetos na Area de
Educaqco Bdsica). It was also agreed that the Ministry of Education will provide to the Bank by
March 31 of each year a report satisfactory to the Bank showing: i) the amounts transferred to
each participating state and eligible municipality for the financing of basic education during the
preceding fiscal year and ii) the ex ant allocations of MEC and FNDE funds to each project state
and municipality for the current fiscal year (para. 6.1). The Bank will review this information in
order to monitor the Ministry's adherence to the agreed objective criteria for the allocation of
education resources.
2.50         The national compenent will consist of four sub-components: i) educadonal
evaluation; ii) policy analysis; iii) national education planning and management; and iv) reform of
the textbook and school lunch programs. In each area, financing will be provided for training,
technical assistance and other consultant services, studies, office furniture and equipment (mostly
micro-computers and related hardware), dissemination activities, project supervision and
monitoring, and incremental operational costs. Performance indicators to be used in monitoring
implementation at the national level are specified in Annex 7.
(A)   Educational Evaluation (US$5.7 million including contingencies)
2.51          The objective of this sub-component is to build up the national capacity for i)
carrying out systematic evaluations of student achievement, school effectiveness and system
productivity; ii) analyzing, interpreting and disseminating the findings; and iii) translating the
resulting knowledge into policies, strategies and actions aimed at improving public basic education
in Brazil.



- 28 -
2.52         To support human resource development in education measurement, assessment
and testing, the project will finance grants for higher-level training in overseas and national
research institutes, universities, and state-of-the-art testing centers. Scholarships and fellowships
will be available to talented Brazilians of various academic backgrounds interested in a career in
education evaluation. The project will also finance grants, to be awarded on a competitive basis,
to foster the establishment of regional centers of excellence specialized in the technical
requirements of education evaluation, including the capacity to develop as well as absorb and
adapt know-how and technology applied to measurement, assessment and testing in education.
These centers and institutions will be asked to participate actively in the improvement and
consolidation of SAEB (see below).
2.53         While pursuing the broad objective of developing human and ilstitutional capacity
in educational evaluation, the project will also promote the improvement and consolidation of the
recently developed national system for evaluating basic education, SAEB (Sistema de Avallac4o
da Educa,ao Bdsica), which utilizes a sample-based methodology to evaluate inputs, processes
and learning outcomes of public school systems. SAEB is administered by INEP, with support
from SEF, CPS and the state education secretariats. Support for SAEB under the project will be
in accordance with a five year research, development and operational plan which INEP is
currently preparing. Local and foreign consultants will be contracted on short as well as long
term bases to assist INEP staff with the research and development required to refine the SAEB
methodology and to analyze data collected (including data from the first SAEB application in
1990, which have not yet been analyzed).
(B)   Policy analysis (US$1.6 million including contingencies)
2.54         Ihe objective of this sub-component is to help SEP develop the institutional
capacity for systematic policy formulation, analysis and review. The project will finance grants
for applied research and studies on basic education. The Ministry intends to give emphasis to
policy-oriented, empirically-based and quantitative studies in education. Annual priorities for this
program of studies and criteria for evaluating proposals will be established by SEF with advice
from a high-level commission of national and international education experts. lhe sub-component
will support dissemination of analytical findings and recommendations, through publications,
workshops and seminars.
2.55         The sub-component will also support the establishment of a computerized data
bank for information on basic education standards (spending per student, achievement test scores,
etc.) and innovative policies and programs at the state and municipal levels. Once operational,
this data bank will be a quick source of information for states and municipalities interested in
adopting innovative approaches aimed at improving the efficiency and quality of basic education.
(C)   Education plang and management (US$3.4 million including contingencies)
2.56         The objective of this subcomponent is to help SEP improve its efficiency. The
project will finance: i) cognting assistanc to improve the efficiency of processes, procedures
and tools employed by SEF staff and managers in their routine as well as strategic activities; i)
consolidation and development of ingrae data managmentym    such as statistical and
bibliographical data banks (including purchase of equipment, such as microcomputers and related
hardware); iii) equipment and logistical support for the nationl   ect sport unit (UNESP) and
the  port Uit responsible for the national monent (UESCN) within SEF to enable these to



- 29 -
carry out their respective coordination functions; and iv) management training for mid-level SEF
managers to give these the concepts, skills and tools required for practicing better strategic
plannir.g and decision making.
(D)   Reform of the textbook and school lunch programs (US$0.95 million)
2.57         The project will finance a major study of alternative financing mechanisms for the
national textbook program. Submission by the Ministry of terms-of-reference for this study
(including a timetable for its completion) satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness
(para. 6.2). This subcomponent also includes financing for a study to evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of the national school lunch program, the appropriateness of its federally-centralized
approach, and proposals for reform. It was auLed anegotiations that the Ministry will submit
terms-of-reference for this study (including a timetable for its completion) satisfactory to the Bank
by not later than Jauary 31, 1994 (para. 6.1). The project will also finance technical assistance
to support the eventual implementation of any reforms recommended by these studies, including
redefintion of the core mission of FAE.
2.58         In addition to financing for these two studies, the subcomponent includes funds to
cover technical assistance required for implementation of the pilot textbook program described
earlier.
2.59         QperatiognalPI. A condition of Board presentation was submission by MEC of
a draft Operational Plan for the implementation of all parts of the national component, with
detailed activities and costs for the first year. The Ministry brought its draft plan to negotiations
and it was discussed. Submission by MEC of a final version of this Operational Plan acceptable
to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.2).
iII. PROJECT COSMS, FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.    Proect CostS
3.1          The total cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies and local
taxes, is estimated at US$378.6 million equivalent, or US$327.6 million, excluding local taxes.
Base costs amount to US$318.7 million, 84 percent of total project costs. Base costs include local
taxes, which equal US$51 million, or 15 percent of loca costs, and 13 percent of total project
costs. Foreign exchange costs of US$38.3 million amount to 10 percent of total project costs.
Table 3.1 summarizes estimated project costs by component. Further breakdowns of project costs
by state, component, and year of expenditure are provided in Annexes 1 and 2.
3.2          Dollar equivalent costs at July 1992 price levels were used throughout. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent were applied to base costs for equipment, fiurniture, civil works, and
educational and testing materials. No physical contingencies were applied to consultant services
or training programs or the Innovations Fund. Price contingencies of 3.7 percent per year were
applied to all components except the Innmovations Fund. This is the expected rate of increase for
international prices for the period 1993-1998. Ibis rate of price increase was used for both
foreign and local cost components of the project on the assumption that devaluation of the
cruzeiro would compensate for differences between US dollar and local currency inflation rates.



- 30 -
Table 3.1
Brazil
Northeast Basic Education 1 Project
Project Cost Summary
Base Costs in US$ (millions)  % Total
Project Components                           Local     Foreign       Total   Base Costs
A: Educational Management
a) Strengthening planning capacity           3.98                    3.98         1.2
b) Human resources management                3.82                    3.82         1.2
c) School quality monitoring                 2.87                    2.87  .      0.9
d) Integrated management information         2.36        3.24        5.60         1.8
e) Support unit                              2.03                    2.03         0.6
Subtotal                                     15.06        3.24       18.30         5.7
B: Educational Materials
a) Textbooks                                56.15                   56.15        17.6
b) Reading books                            15.72       15.72       31.44         9.9
c) Didactic materials                        6.38        6.38       12.75         4.0
Subtotal                                     78.25       22.10      100.34        31.5
C: Teacher Training                          25.26                   25.26         7.9
D: Time Slice Financing
a) Civil works                             140.25                  140.25        A4.0
b) Equipment                                 3.41        3.88        7.29         2.3
c) Bookshelves                              13.51                   13.51         4.2
Subtotal                                    157.17        3.88      161.05        50.5
E: Innovation Fund                            4.00                    4.00         1.3
F: National Component
a) Education evaluation                      2.14        2.57        4.71         1.5
b) System policy analysis                    1.25        0.11        1.35         0.4
c) Education management                      2.30        0.54        2.83         0.9
d) Textbook & lunch program reform           0.27        0.55        0.82         0.3
Subtotal                                      5.95        3.76        9.71         3.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS  -44 -                                          I  : : v
Physical Contingencies                      20.57        1.82       22.39         7.0
Price Contingencies                         34.03        3.46       37.48        11.8
STOTAL:PROJT COT                             4.        "8.



- 31 -
'Ihis assumption may not be valid throughout the project period, however, so project costs will be
carefully monitored. In the event of cost overruns associated with a wedge between US dollar and
cruzeiro inflation rates, it will be necessary for the Government to finance these cost overruns. If
necessary, the Bank will reduce its disbursement percentages to maintain its participation through
project completion.
3.3           Estimated costs of civil works were based upon recent implementation experience
in the four project states, and Ministry of Education unit cost guidelines. Estimated costs of
educational materials were based upon recent price quotations from major suppliers. Costs for
computers, other office equipment, and office furniture were based on current c.i.f. unit prices,
adjusted for local transportation costs. Training cost estimates were based on a detailed
breakdown of the staffing, travel, subsistence and materials requirements for each type of course
and payscales of the Ministry of Education and the four project states for training specialists.
Costs of international and domestic consultants were based upon recent experience of the Ministry
and the Bank with consultants with similar skills profiles to those being financed under the
project.
B.    Project Financing
3.4           The loan will be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil. Funds will be
transferred on a grant basis to the four participating states for the portions of the project (97
percent of total project costs) to be executed at the state level. The loan will be for 15 years,
with five years of grace. The proposed loan of US$212 million will finance 56 percent of total
project costs (or 65 percent of project costs excluding local taxes). The Bank loan will finance
100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 51 percent (US$174 million) of local
expenditures. The federal government will finance 20 percent of total project costs (mncluding
local taxes) and state governments would finance an estimated 25 percent of total project costs
(including local taxes). The relatively high percentage of local cost financing under the project is
the consequence of the project's small foreign exchange component. It is justified by the need to
encourage implementation of the significant policy changes being sought under the project. The
fact that the project is targeted to Brazil's most impoverished region also justifies relatively high
local cost financing. The project financing plan is shown in Table 3.2.
3.5          CouIie        Financing. The federal government will provide all counterpart
financing of project costs for the national component and will finance 20 percent of the total state-
level component costs in line with its regular cost-sharing formula with the states. The four states
will be responsible for providing all other counterpart funds required for their respective
components.
C.    Inc ental Recur    C=
3.6           The focus of this project is on achieving a rationalization of the four states'
current levels of education expenditure, through reductions in staffing and reallocations of
spending towards educational materials and teacher training, which are expected to increase the
quality of primary education and to translate into more efficient student flows through state and
municipal primary school systems. At the federal level, increment recurrent spending on the
order of US$3 million per year Cm 1992 prices) will be required to sustain the national student
assessment program (SAEB). This figure is fairly insignificant when compared with the
Ministry's current annual budget, and can be absorbed. Moreover, it is expected that the studies



- 32 -
and technical assistance planned to support the restructuring of national textbook and school lunch
agency, FAE, as well as other assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Education, will help increase the efficiency of education spending at the federal level as well, and
may more than offset these incremental recurrent costs.
Tab!. 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Total Costs, Including Contingencies
(US$ millions)
Loeat Co0tS         Forega Coss           Tota Costs
~jeot Component     Federal $tates  SRD)' FedelSWos IB1RD  Federal States 1BRD   TOTAL
1. State Level
_s= ==== = 
A. Education  S.D   11.7              3.6          3.0    ~~~~~~~~~~15.4  20.4
B. Education Materials     26.7   64.3                   25.0         26.7    89.3    116.1
c'   -~aeberTruizng ' 14'.1   14.1                             1,    -14.1             28.2
D. Tine Slice       55.6   45.5   92.0                    5.0  55.6   45.5   97.0     198.2
Financing
liviovatlon -d   ,"4.1f-' ='.''':,:",:,:-t'. :' -f-:';S. : :''- ' ' '---i::" ' " ''4.0  4.0
H. National Level    1.5           5.5                    4.6  1.5           10.1      11.6
'IXIrALe  753    91.4  17o,6  0.0  0.0  38,2S  75.91.4  .211.9    378.5
*Totls may not add exacdy due to rounding.
3.7           Education budgets of the four Northeast II project states analyzed at appraisal
showed recurrent spending in the state-run primary school systems ranging from approximately
US$230 per student in Ceard, to $300 per student in Maranhio. Although these unit expenditures
represent only about 60 percent of what other countries in Brazil's income group, such as Korea,
Greece, or Portugal spend per student (about US$400), they compare favorably with spending
levels of other countries in the region, such as Chile (US$181), Uruguay ($256) and Venezuela
(US$213). Per-student spending in municipal systems in the four states, however, based on
information from a sample of approximately 10 municipalities per state collected at appraisal, is
sharply lower - averaging roughly US$50 I00 per student. This level of per student spending is
on par with that found in some of the pooi. countries in the world, such as Guinea, Mali, and
Pakistan. Municipal systems in the Northeast, particularly in the rural areas, clearly lack the
resources to attract qualified teachers, or to sustain other minimum requirements of the education
process. The need to increase absolute levels of expenditures on education in municipal systems
is obvious. One way of addressing this problem is to ensure that municipalities devote a
reasonable share of what resources they do possess, to education. A criterion for municipal
participation in the Time-Slice component is compliance with the constitutional requirement that
25 percent of municipal revenues be spent on education. Compliance with this requirement will
be monitored throughout the project period by the states. It appears, however, that at least part
of the problem in most municipalities is the low overall level of fiscal resources per capita. This



- 33 -
structural problem can only be resolved through economic development - to strengthen the tax
base - or changes in federal and state revenue transfer rules.
3.8           The high levels of grade repetition prevalent in the Northeast are a major source
of spending inefficiency. Repetition rates of 50 percent in grade 1 are the norm in the project
states; this means that 50 percent more resources are spent in first grade than would be necessary
if repetition were zero. One of the main goals of the project is to reduce repetition and thus
improve the -cst effctives of primary education in the Northeast. The project is designed to
raise school quality and change promotion practices (both indirectly, through the impact that
quality improvements are expected to have on student learning and performance, and directly, by
sensitizing teachers to the disadvantages of repetition and training them in alternative techniques,
such as targeted learning reinforcement and cross-peer tutoring) in order to improve student
flows. As student promotion rates increase, costs per year of educational attainment (or costs per
graduate) will decrease. Because increases in student promotion rates are usually associated with
reductions in dropout rates, expenditures will be spread over a larger population of students,
yielding lower unit costs for primary education in the project states.
3.9           Another major source of inefficiency is the states' practice of allocating nearly
100 percent of their education recurrent budgets to personnel expenditures. This has virtually
eliminated spending on complementary educational inputs, such as books and other didactic
materials. The project addresses this problem directly, with actions to rationalize the four states'
current levels of education expenditure, through reductions in staff numbers - especially
nonteaching staff, and reallocation of spending towards teacher training and non-salary inputs,
which are essential for quality improvements. States' progress in annually increasing the share of
their recurrent spending devoted to nonsalary consumable materials will be monitored under the
project among the Anal Managment Efficiency Targets.
3.10          To raise educational quality and to change promotion practices, the project will
carry out direct investment actvities, and will also finance the recurrent costs associated with
these direct investments. The overall project cost, US$378 million for 5 years, covering 3 million
students per year, is about US$25 per student per year. This represents an 8-10 percent increase
in per student spending over current levels in state schools in the four project states, and a 33
percent increase over estimated current levels (approximately US$ 75 per year) of spending per
student in the municipal schools. Of this US$25 per student, approximately 40 percent, or US$8
per student, represents recurrent cost financing. This incremental spending will need to be
maintined after the project ends to sustain project objectives. Seventy-fEve percent of these
recurrent costs are for educational materials, about US$6-7 per student per year. Excluding
educational materials, less than US$2 per student per year will be required in recurrent financing
to sustain the project objectives after project completion, including the national component. This
represents less than a 1 percent increase in per student costs in the state system and only about a 3
percent increase in per student costs in the municipal system. Marginal increases in class size in
the upper primary grades, and marginal reductions in dropo'tt rates, objectives supported by the
project, could easily finance these recurrent costs.
3.11          As educational materials for schools are currently financed by the federal
government's FAE (see paragraphs 1.26 to 1.28, above), the most obvious means of assuring the
required level of recurrent financing for educational materials after the project ends is through a
stable annual endowment for FAE (or transfer of the equivalent federal resources to the states).
Without increasing overall federal government spending on education, th: financing for FAE



- 34 -
could come from reductions in other programs, such as the FNDE transfers for school
construction.' To ensure that the level of expenditures on books and educational materials
achieved under the project will be sustained, the Government requested Bank financing for this
component on a declining basis; thus, Bank financing will be reduced gradually from 100 percent
in the first two years, to 25 percent by year five. In the first year of the project, a major study of
the national textbook distribution program will also be undertaken, with an explicit mandate for
developing alternatives to solve the chronic problems of inadequate textbook financing.
D.    Procuremen
3.12         The project will involve procurecient of civil works, textbooks, reading books,
didactic materials, school furniture and equipment, computers and office equipment, scholarships,
travel expenses, and consultant services for training, studies and technical assistance. Table 3.3
shows project costs broken down by procurement method.
3.13         Country Procurement Issues and Institutional Capacity. erocurement issues have
arisen with past projects in Brazil because of discrepancies between Bank procurement guidelines
and state law in many states. A ruling of the federal Tibunal de Contas last year upheld the
position that Bank guidelines should prevail over state laws for procurement under Bank-financed
projects. However, a new national procurement law which has specific legal language consistent
with the position taken by the Tibunal de Contas is still pending in Congress. Major
discrepancies between Bank guidelines and existing Brazilian procurement laws are: i) in
consultant selection, the Bank doesn't consider price for critical assignments, whereas Brazilian
law does; ii) differences in the number of bid envelopes used in competitive bidding procedures;
and iii) Brazilian law allows bracketing and price ceilings to be used in competitive bidding
procedures. It was agreed at negotiations that standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank
will be used for all procurement of works, goods, books and educational materials under the
project (para. 6.1). This should help avoid procurement problems to a considerable extent. But
there is no real guarantee against procurement problems until the new national legislation is
passed. However, the new Brazilian procurement code is likely to become law before the project
is effective.
3.14         All of the states have a unit responsible for design, bidding, contracting and
supervision of civil works, and procurement of school equipment. These units report to the State
Education Secretariats. The Ministry of Education's SEF/DDE also has trained teams of
architects and engineers to assist states in the supervision of civil works. At appraisal, the
capacity of these units to handle the design contracting of works and goods to be procured under
the project was judged adequate, but the capacity for supervising works needs strengthening.
Therefore, the education management component of the project includes funds for training,
technical assistance and computer equipment for each state to help equip these units for their
expanded responsibilities under the project - particularly with respect to supervision of municipal
school rehabilitation and construction. In one state (Ceara), responsibility for contracting and
supervising small-scale school rehabilitation works in the state system has been delegated to
school directors as part of the state's policy of decentralization and greater school-based
management. Teams from the Secretariat's physical planning unit are responsible for supervision
6. Only about 5 percent of the federal share of the salario educaio would be required to sustain the level
of book prvision supported by this project (US$ 25 milion per year).



- 35 -
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total Costs Including Coningencies
(USS million equivalent)
4sleo'0                        -CR                                         otBo!  N.B.F   TOW
Civil Works                                            -         17.5      157.0*    -      174.5
(8.5)     (78.7)          (87.3)
Z441hmw  and Furniture                                12.5         4.0        2.0*    8.8    17.3
r(11.2)      (32        (1.6)   t0)  (X16.O)
Textbooks and Teachers' Guides                        66.1        -          -       -       66.1
(43.0)                                (43.0)
R. Y  Sj g'S^Aeadi n,fl ;'        355,8                          ....                ..     ....... - T ..   . -  -  35,8': '.'  
Educational Materials                                 14.2        -                   3.0k'  17.2
(14.2)                         (0)    (14.2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ', T,.-'.,.'    sac, ,',':,-:',' :'f-- 2.8"..... ';'5'.?'   0.,:''1
¢  :f: s  f ..2W                                                              , ......   
Innovations Fund Grants                                -          -          _        4.0    4.0
_       (0)    (0)
Maintenance, Supervision and Project Operating Costs   -          -          -        3.6d'   3.6
(0)    (0)
12*6  21'     183.8    ~~44.  -37-86
Note Values in parentheses refiect Bank finanoing.
N.B.P.: Not Bank^financed
* To be procured via Local Shopping.
" Of which, approximately US$500,000 in scholarships for overseas training, not subject to procurement.
w Teacher trauiung materials to be financed by states and federal government.
I Consultant services, per diems, transport and other costs of teacher training, to be financed by states and
federal government.
a Staff salaries and other operating cosb to be financed by states and federal government.
of these works and give the school directors technical help, as necessary. As the results of this
system to date have been good and Ceara's policy is consistent with the philosophy of this
project, Ceard will retain this practice under the project with respect to small-scale rehabilitation
works in Gate schools, according to Local Shopping Procedures acceptable to the Bank,
monitor.d by staff of the Secretariat's physical planning unit. In the other three states, the
Secretariat's physical planning units will contract works involving state-run schools. In all four
states, funds for municipal school rehabilitation or construction will be transferred to the
municipal education secretariats, which will be responsible for contracting works.
3.15            As discussed earlier (paras. 1.26-1.28), at least part of Brazil's chronic problems
of textbook procurement derive from the weak institutional capacity of the responsible agency,



- 36 -
FAE. Long-term technical assistance from a team of international advisers, already underway, is
addressing these problems and strengthening textbook selection and procurement capacity at both
the federal (FAE) and state levels. With respect to the other components of the national-level
program, technical competence and procurement experience within the implementing agencies
(INEP, CAPES, SEF, etc.) is judged adequate for the purposes of this project.
3.16         Civil W.rka. An estimated 88 percent of the US$198 million Time-Slice
component of the project will be used for school rehabilitation and expansion, 4 percent for
equipment and 8 percent for classroom bookshelves and book storage units. Thi state and
municipal primary school rehabilitation and expansion works planned are numerous small works
dispersed throughout the project states. In each state, the vast majority of works planned are
school rehabilitation, rather than new school construction. However, both at the state and
municipal levels, packaging of works within a geographic area is routinely done, with packages
generally involving 3-5 schools. As schools in the area typically range in size from 1-2 classroom
structures to 10-15 classroom buildings, packages for rehabilitation are expected to range from
US$5,000 to US$100,000, and packages for new construction to range from US$50,000 to
US$300,000. As no civil works contracts are expected to exceed US$1,000,000, ICB procedures
would not be appropriate. Contracts exceeding US$100,000 but below US$1,000,000 wi1l be
awarded following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank which
would allow foreign bidders to participate. The first two LCB contracts in each state will be
subject to prior review by the Bank. About 10 percent of the total value of works financed in
each state are expected to be awarded via LCB. Contracts below US$100,000 will be awarded
following Local Shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, including tomada de precos, or the
annual establishment of registries of pre-qualified contractors, and at least three price quotations.
Registries will be constituted on the basis of nationwide publication of registration announcements
and all registries will be reopened annually. Civil works contractng via Local Shopping will be
permitted up to an aggregate limit of US$157 million.
3.17         Euipment and unitre. The states of Ceard and Pernambuco have opted to
procure all school furniture (desks, bookshelves and classroom storage units) under the Time-Slice
component of the project using their own procurement procedures and thus, they will not receive
Bank financing for these items. All oth procurement under the project - computers, office
equipment, and office furniture for all four states and the Ministry of Education and school
furniture under the Tlme-Slice component for the states of Maranhao and Sergipe - will be
packaged as far as possible by the states and the Ministry of Education (for the national
component) into contracts of more than US$300,000 and procured through ICB. Contracting of
goods and equipment via LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank will be permitted for contracts
between US$50,000 and US$300,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$4 million. The first two
LCB contracts for goods by each state and the federal government and all LCB goods contracts
over US$250,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contracts below US$50,000 may
be awarded using Local Shopping Procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate limit of
US$2 million.
3.18         Educaional Materials. The project will fnance US$14.2 million in educational
materials other than books (i.e., blocks, manipulatives, simple science kits), for first and second
grade classes in state and municipal schools. These purchases will be packaged by the state
secretariats into contracts of at least US$300,000 and will be procured via ICB. About US$3
million in materis for the preparation of teacher training course materials will not be Bank-
financed and will be procured by the states following their own procedures.



- 37 -
3.19         Books and Educationa Materials. As described earlier, the project is financing
consultant assistance to the project states and FAE (the national agency currently responsible for
textbook procurement) to help implement a new textbook procurement process for the purposes of
this project and the proposed Northeast Basic Education IIM project. The new procurement
process is designed to achieve more informed state and municipal selection of book titles, more
stringent production specifications, more competitive procurement, and more timely and efficient
distribution of books to the schools.
3.20         The new procurement system for textbooks is based on international competitive
bidding and rigorous and objective screening of titles in a two-step process designed to establish
approved regional short-lists from which state and municipal schools would select their books.
Both domestic titles and foreign-produced titles (which publishers agree to make available in
Portuguese translation) are eltgible for screening. The consultant advisers have already begun
helping the states establish the book evaluation procedures which will lead to identification of the
approved regional short-lists. In the first step, books submitted for selection will be subject to
three types of review, in sequence: i) publishers' qualifications (production and financial
capabilities for fulfilling large scale orders and experience); ii) publishers' ability to produce
books which meet the minimum physical production specifications and book durability criteria;
and iii) a detailed pedagogical evaluation of book content to ensure that all books on the approved
list meet federal and state curriculum, pedagogic, methodological, content and presentational
criteria. Once the finalists in each category (for example, second grade math or fourth grade
Portuguese) are identified, the second step will be to solicit price bids (in the form of a matrix
table showing prices for print runs of varying size) from publishers, and all titles falling within
10% of the lowest bid will be placed on the final list. It is expected that approximately 4 to 6
itles will be approved for each subject in each grade.
3.21         The final approved regional list will be circulated to all state and municipal
schools in the Northeast by June 1993. Individual schools will select their titles and specify
quantities needed. These orders will be aggregated by state and then bulked up into title print
runs using a computer system which already exists and operates efficiently within FAE. Specific
training and assistance for textbook screening and procurement will be financed by the project for
the first three years of implementation.
3.22         The project will also finance a small set of classroom reading books (80-100 titles)
for each state and municipal classroom. The basic set of books will include titles designed for
each of the four grades. The four states will develop basic set of reading book titles to be
procured for schools in all four states, using ICB under the same two-step screening and bid-
evaluation process developed for textbook selection, and with technical assistance from the same
consultants. Approximately 15-20 new or replacement titles per year will be selected and
procured by the state secretariats in order to resupply the classroom libraries, in subsequent years,
using the same procedures. Since both textbook and reading book orders will be bulked up,
average contract size is expected to exceed US$1 million.
3.23         Consultants and Studies. The selection and appointment of all consultants for
studies, technical assistance anC training under the project will be consistent with the August 1981
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency. For consultant contracts below US$100,000 equivalent, the Bank's prior
review will cover only terms-of-reference, except in cases of employment of individual



- 38 -
consultants, single source selection of firms, assignment of a critical nature, or amendments of
contracts raising the value to more than US$100,000.
3.24         Bank Review Requirements. The Bank will review and approve before contract
award all procurement documentation for books, educational materials, equipment and furniture to
be procured through ICB. In addition, the Bank will review and approve before contract award
the first two local competitive bidding (LCB) contracts for each state and for the Ministry of
Education, for both the acquisition of goods and for civil works, and all LCB contracts for goods
in excess of US$250,000. In total, it is estimated that prior review will cover about 60 percent
of the total amount of works and goods financed by the Bank. This relatively low percentage is
because of the large number of small-sized contracts associated with the rehabilitation of
localized, small school buildings under the Tune-Slice component of the project. For all contracts
for goods awarded through ICB, domestic manufacturers may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with Bank guidelines for the purpose of bid evaluation. All other procurement will
be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank and all relevant documentation will be kept by
the state-level project support units and the federal project support units for periodic review
during supervision. The ex-post review of consultant contracts for which only terms-of-reference
were subject to prior review, will cover not less than one in five contracts.
iE. D isbursements
3.25         The disbursement schedule is based on a five year implementation timetable
beginning in July 1993 (Table 3.4). The project completion date will be June 30, 1998 and the
project closing date December 31, 1998.
3.26         The proposed US$212 million loan, which will cover 56 percent of total project
costs and 65 percent of project costs net of taxes, will be disbursed as follows:
STATE-LEVEL PROGRAM (PART A OF TIE PROJECI)
Component 1: Education Management -
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training - 100 percent of foreign expenditures,
70 percent of local expenditures
Office Equipment and Furniture - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 80 percent
of local expenditures
Component 2: Textbooks, Teachers' Guides, and Reading Books -
Financing of all eligible expenditures on a declining basis, as follows: 100 percent
of expenditures in years 1 and 2, up to an aggregate amount of US$43.6 million;
75 percent in year 3 up to an aggregate amount of US$59.5 million; 50 percent in
year 4, up to an aggregate amount of US$67.6 million; and 25 percent in year 5.
Didactic Materials -
Financing of all eligible expenditures on a declining basis, as follows: 100 percent
of expenditures in years 1 and 2, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 13.3 million;
25 percent of all expenditures thereafter
Component 3: Teacher Training - 0 percent of experditures



- 39 -
Component 4: lime-Slice Financing of State and Municipal Investment Programs -
Civil Works - 50 percent of expenditures.
School Equipment and Furniture - 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
80 percen; of local expenditures
NATIONAL PROGRAM (PART B OF THE PROJECT)
Component 1: Training and Studies - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 70 percent of local
expenditures
Component 2: National Assessment - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 70 percent of local
expenditures
Component 3: Reform of FAE - 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 70 percent of local
expenditures
Table 3.4: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Total Costs, Including Contingencies
(US$ million)
Annual                 57.0 1    43.9     44.0    35.1    22.4        9.6
Cumulative             57.0    100.8    144.8   179.9   202.4    212.0 l
u
Incdig USS15 Mi_i In MmcdA. fimoin
3.27         Disbursements will be made upon receipt of full documentation, except in the case
of civil works provided under contracts valued at less than US$300,000 and goods procured under
contracts valued at less than US$250,000, for which disbursements may be made against certified
statements of expenditure (SOE). Disbursements against SOEs for consultant services will be
permitted for contracts below US$100,000. SOEs will be certified locally by the state education
secretary of the respective states and at the federal level by the Secretary for Basic Education.
Supporting documentation wiUl be retained by the project unit in each state and by the UNESP and
UESCN at the Ministry of Education. Documentation wil be available for inspection during
Bank supervision missions and by independent auditors.
3.28         To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the project, the Borrower
will open a Special Account. The initial deposit to this Special Account will be based upon an
average of four months' eligible expenditures. The Special Account will be established in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, for an amount of US$ 20 million. Funds from the
Special Account will be available for financing only the Bank's share of eligible project costs.
Project funds will be channeled to the four states through Specific Project Accounts to be opened
at a state bank acceptable to the Bank by each State Secretary of Education.
3.29         The Borrower and the Bank wiUl review project development from time to time
and may reach agreement on an alteration in the amount to be deposited in the Special Account.
The Bank will replenish the Special Account as requested upon receipt of satisfactory evidence
that expenditures paid were eligible for financing out of the accounts. Replenishment requests



- 40 -
will be sent to the Bank at agreed intervals. Conversions from cruzeiros and other currencies to
US dollars will be made in accordance with Bank policy. The Central Bank will request the
replenishment of the Special Account from time to time through applications for withdrawal using
Form 1903. These applications will be supported by the documentation described previously.
3.30         Separate project agreements between the World Bank and the states of Ceara,
Maranhao, Sergipe and Pemambuco have also been negotiated. In addition to these, each of the
four states will sign a subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with the federal government,
as a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 6.2). Tese subsidiary agreements stipulate State
concurrence with conditions and project activities described in the Loan and Project Agreements
and regulate the flow of funds from the Borrower to the states. In these subsidiary agreements,
the Ministry of Education authorizes each state secretariat of education to open a separate Project
Account in cruzeiros in a state bank.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.31         The project support unit in the Ministry of Education and the state education
secretariats of Ceart, Maranhio, Sergipe and Pernambuco will each maintain separate accounts
for project expenditures, which will be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank. The Special Account at a commercial bank will also be audited by independent auditors
annuly. Copies of the audited statements from the participating states and from the commercial
bank handling the Special Account will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year. The auditors' reports will include an opinion (and comments, as necessary) on the
methods employed in compiling the statements of expenditures; their accuracy; the relevance of
suppordng documents; their eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreement; and
the standards of record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. At negotiations. it
was mWdthat the project accounts will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, including, possibly, STN, as
long as STN maintains the conditions established in a supplemental letter provided by the Bank to
the Borrower (para 6.1).
G. Retractive Financing
3.32         Retroactive financing of up to US$15 million will be provided for expenditures
made in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines for a period of up to twelve months prior
to the date of loan signing. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure that technical
assistance necessary for the timely delivery of educational materials begins with the necessary lead
time, and to allow the states to initiate agrced priority school rehabilitation and construction works
(para. 6.4).



- 41 -
IV. PRQ.1CT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    Project Readiness for Implementation
4.1          The project was jointly prepared by the Ministry of Education (SEF) at the federal
level and by the secretariats of education of the four participating states, with periodic assistance
from Bank missions. The preparation team was headed by the National Secretary for Basic
Education in MEC. The excellent and highly-motivated MEC team, staffed with experienced
personnel and with strong support from the Minister of Education: i) defined the project scope
and objectives in accordance with overall government strategy for basic education; ii) coordinated
the work performed by other federal level entities (INEP, FAE, etc.); and iii) oversaw project
preparation at the state level, including the development of relevant statistical information, the
dissemination of guidelines for the preparation of the state investment plans, and the contracting
of consultants to assist the states in preparing their management audits, operational plans, and
investment plans. Throughout the preparation period, MEC staff and consultants working for the
Ministry made frequent visits to the Northeast states in order to coordinate project preparation and
to provide technical guidance.
4.2          Project preparation benefitted greatly from a US$1.4 million grant for preparation
of the two Northeast education projects from the Japanese Government. The Japanese grant
financed the management audits and management cor sultant assistance to all nine Northeast states
that helped the states develop their Annual Manager mnt Efficiency Targets, and helped support
the preparation of all other project components. N. Ath financial assistance from UNDP, it was
also possible to initiate consultant assistance for the pilot textbook procurement and distribution,
to ensure the delivery of materials to the schools by January 1994.
B.    Project Coordination
4.3          National level. Overall project coordination will oe vested in the National
Secretariat for Basic Education (SEE), which will mantain a national project support unit
(Unidade Nacional Encarregada do Suporte ao Projeto, or UNESP) in DDE. Formal
establishment of the UNESP by the Ministry of Education is a condition of effectiveness (para.
6.2). The UNESP will be headed by the Director of DDE, who is appointed by and reports to
the National Secretary of Basic Education, thus assuring a high level management placement for
project coordination. Funds to support the UNESP are provided under the national component of
the project.
4.4          The UNESP will be responsible for coordinating project activities and liaising
with all participating agencies of the federal and state governments. Functions such as supervision
and technical assistance to sates will be shared by the various SEF units, but coordinated by
UNESP. The Bank and the Ministry agreed on the terms-of-reference for the UNESP at post-
appraisal. The unit's principal task is to ensure that project components are executed according to
the agreed upon terms and timetable. The UNESP will inter alia: i) monitor execution of the
state-level and national components of the project; ii) carry out the annual reviews of states'
AMETs; iii) carry out the evaluation of states' proposed PAls; and iv) prepare the mid-year and
end-of-year project execution reports for the Bank, handle any other requests for information
about project execution as the Bank shall reasonably request, and carry out all preparation
necessary for the project's mid-term review. Additionally, once a year UNESP will organize a
seminar to assure dissemination of lessons from project implementation and review the states'



- 42 -
progress tcwards meeting their management efficiency targets. Each state will host one such
seminar during the project period.
4.5           The UNESP (although not yet formally established) is already functioning and is
currently staffed by a core team of high-level professionals with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank. At negotiations. the Borrower provided assurances that such a team will
be maintained at all times during project execution (para. 6.1). The core team consists of a
project leader trained in management, a specialist in education planning with experience in
procurement and a specialist in education finance. All salaries of staff employed by the Ministry
are to be fully paid by the Ministry, out of counterpart funds. The unit is also at present
supported by two part-time consultants, one with experience in management of World Bank
projects, and one specialist in the area of applied informatics. Consultants with specialized
expertise not available within SEF will be contracted as needed throughout the project period,
using project funds. The high rank within the Ministry which the head of the UNESP has will
facilitate the mobilization of staff throughout SEF for project activities, as needed. Although
there is some risk with these project management arrangements because none of the responsible
staff will be employed full-time by the project, the advantages of this matrix structure, in which
project activities are closely integrated into the operations of the Ministry and ministerial line
managers are responsible for the project are clear. Moreover, the past experience under Bank-
financed projects with isolated project management units that were = integrated into the
Ministry's operations has been unsatisfactory. Therefore, it was agreed that the matrix structure
will be tried under this project, but its functioning will be reviewed closely during project
implementation.
4.6          Because the national component of the project involves a large number of diverse
activities, it will be coordinated by a separate unit within SEF, the Unidade Encarregada do
Suporte ao Componente Nacional, or UESCN. The main functions of this unit will be inter alia:
i) to contract studies and consultant services under the national component; ii) either carry out or
oversee, as appropriate, the execution of all activities under the national component; and iii)
supply the UNESP with all necessary information and period reports related to the execution of
the national component. At negotiations. the Borrower also provided assurances that a core team
of high-level professionals within the UESCN with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank will be maintained at all times during project execution (para. 6.1).
4.7          State level. Project coordination at the state level is being handled by a project
support unit (Unidade Estadual Encarregada do Suporte ao Projeto, or UEESP) established in
each state education secretariat, similar in structure and functions to the national project support
unit. Formal establishment of these units by the states is a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.2).
The state units wiUl be located in the planning departments of the state education secretariats. The
Bank and the states agreed on terms-of-reference for these units at post-appraisal. Each UEESP
wiUl, inter alia: i) coordinate the preparation and execution of all state-level project components;
ii) monitor state progress toward meeting the managememn efficiency targets; iii) prepare mid-year
and end-year reports on project execution and carry out all necessary preparation for the project
mid-term review; iv) contract studies and consultant services; v) verity that all other state units
executing the project follow Bank guidelines when prociring goods and services; vi) ensure that
all necessary project documentation is maintained in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and vii)
issue periodic progress reports to MEC and, upon request, the World Bank.



- 43 -
4.8          Although not yet formally established, all four UEESPs are already functioning
and are currently staffed by a core team of high-level professionals with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank. At negotiations. the BorrQwer and the states provided
asurances that state teams with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank will be
maintained throughout project execution (para. 6. 1). The core team in each state is headed by a
project leader trained in planning and/or management and include staff with experience in
accounting, civil works planning and procurement, teacher training, education materials, and
applied informatics are also. The core teams of the UEESPs include regular civil servants and
specialized consultants. Salaries of regular staff are being fully paid by the state secretariats out
of project counterpart funds. The project includes funds for the recruitment of specialized
consultants, as needed during project execution.
4.9          Computeze project managment information system. SEP will also be
responsible for the development of a computerized system acceptable to the Bank for monitoring:
i) project financial execution (commitments and disbursements); ii) project activities; and iii)
project outcomes and indicators and any other relevant information. This system will be installed
in each UEESP, the UESCN, and in the UNESP, with all points interlinked via an online
computer network, if possible. All staff at the UNESP, UESCN and UEESPs will be trained in
the use of this system. The development of the system will be carried out in phases. Al
negoiations, it was Agreed that by not later than June 30, 1993, SEF will develop and install in
each of the project units the first module, a computerized information system satisfactory to the
Bank for recording financial commitments and disbursements under the project (para. 6.1). It
was also Aawed dthat SEF will develop and install the remaining modules, satisfactory to the Bank,
within each of the project units by not later than June 30, 1994 (para. 6.1)
C. Proiect Imnlementation
4.10         The main implementing agencies for the project will be the state education
authorities of the four selected states and, for the national component, the Ministry of Education.
During negotiations, the Ministry of Education provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank of
adequate counterpart funds in the draft 1993 federal budget to carry out the first year of the
project, and each of the four states provided satisfactory evidence of adequate counterpart funds to
carry out the first year of the project in their 1993 budgets.
4.11         Qeaion  Manual. To guide project implementation at both the state and
national levels, UNESP has prepared a draft Operational Manual, which was discussed at
negotiations and found to be satisfactory. Nonetheless, it was agreed that it might be useful if the
manual were further elaborated (and amended, if necessary) during the first several months of
project execution, based on implementation experience. Therefore, it was agreed at negotiations
that by not later than December 31, 1993, SEF will revise the project Operational Manual, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.1).
4.12         Aual Jmp1m=natign. Plans. Each of the states and the UESCN will prepare
annually an updated detailed implementation plan, or PAA (Plano de A44o Anual). The PAAs
will be based on the states' and UESCN's five year operational plans for all project components,
but will provide more detail about specific activities planned for the following calendar year. In
the case of the states, the PAAs will include states' annual proposals for a program of
construction subprojects under the Time-Slice component, or PAUs (Programas Amcais de
Inves&ento). It was areed at negotiations that the states and the UESCN will prepare draft



- 44 -
PAAs for the subsequent twelve month period beginning on January 1 by no later than August 31
of each year, and will submit these to the UNESP for review. After review and modification, if
necessary, UNESP will furnish all draft PAMs to the Bank for its review by no later than
September 30 of each year (para. 6.1). The Bank will provide comments so that the states and
UESCN, in consultation with UNESP, may finalize their PAAs by no later than November 30 of
each year.
4.13         Al egiation  t w  agredthat by not later than February 28 and August 31 of
each year, until the completion of the project, SEF will fiurnish to the Bank progress reports on
the execution of the project, based on reports to be submitted by the states no later than one
month earlier (para. 6.1). It was agreed that the February report will be a summary of execution
experience during the previous calendar year, and that the August report will be a status report on
project execution during the first half of each year. These reports will be as succinct as possible,
will be based on quantitative information about project execution supplied by the computerized
management information system described above, will focus on the agreed outcome indicators for
each project component, and will identify all implementation problems encountered, including an
analysis of these problems and proposals for remedial actions. It was also agreed at negotiats
ihat the Bank, the Ministry and the states wi1l meet amnally to review project execution
performane (para. 6.1). For 1993, this review meeting is planned for not later than October 31;
in subsequent years, it is planned to occur by June 30.
4.14         In addition to these annual reviews, it was agreed at negogations  that by no later
than June 30 1995, the states and the Ministry of Education and the states will participate with the
Bank in a mid-term review of project execution. This review will focus inr alia on: i) overall
project execution and impact; ii) states' progress in improving management efficiency and the
appropriateness of the AMETs proposed for the second half of the project; iii) states' progress in
imprving education quality and raducing repetition; and iv) progress of the Ministry of Education
in developing and implementing a comprehensive reform of the nationral textbook and school
lunch distribution programs (para. 6.1). It was also agreed at negotiations, that the Ministry will
submit to the Bank by not later than May 31, 1995 detailed terms-of-reference, satisactory to the
Bank, for this mid-term review (para. 6.1).
V. PROJECT BFLDEEIAND RISKS
A.    PoectW Benedt
5.1           The project will support the provision of education inputs, school investments and
other activities that are expected to improve the quality of schooling for approximately 3 million
children per year in the first four grades of state and muicipal primary schools in the four
project states, which is approximay 75 percent of total primary enrollments in these states. The
project target group aso represents 45 percent of the total number of students enrolled in the first
four grades of primary school in the Northeast, and 30 percent of total prmary enrollments in the
Northeast. By imprwving quality, the project wiUl contribute to reduced dropout and repetition
re, incased student learig, and higher graduation rates in the four stas. Improved student
flows would also improve the efficiency of state and micipol spending on primary educaion.
Tprncal assistance in support of management reforms under the project should produce
s ,inc  iroeIn the manaement efficiency of state education searet.rhats and help
state secretariats develop a new role as catalysts for improvements in municipal school quality as



- 45 -
well. The project is also expected to improve the efficiency of textbook and school lunch
procurement and distribution and strengthen the Ministry of Education's capacity to carry out core
oversight and technical assistance functions.
B.    Pr& Risk
5.2          A risk is that states' commitment to implementing politically difficult management
reforms and other actions to improve education quality and equity may falter after the change in
state governors in early 1995 and the expected improvements in state and municipal education
systems might not result. lbis risk has been mitigated by the intensive preparation work at the
state level that was possible thanks to the Japanese grant, and the states' sense of ownership in the
project design and conditionality. To reduce this risk further, the project design includes an
important component of time-slice financing, linked to annual reviews of states' implementation of
their reform programs and an explicit system for reprogramming resources across states or to
other project components in the event of nonperformance by any state.
5.3          A second risk is poor implementation of the other state-level components, due to
weaknesses in administrative capacity. The project's central emphasis on strengthening states'
institutional capacity, the amount and types of technical assistance planned, and the supervision
and coordination role which the Ministry of Education is expected to play, all mitigate this risk.
Finally, there is a risk that the national component might not be implemented fully or at the
planned pace, due either to political changes (there have been three different Ministers of
Education in 1992 alone) and associated staff turnover and loss of continuity, or to weak
institutional capacity. To address this, the focus of the national component is on providing the
Ministry with the technical assistance it requires.
C.    Environmental Impact
5.4          The project is not expected to have any environmental impact.
VI. AGREES REACEID AND
6.1    Agreement was reached with the Borrower and with each state at negotiations th
(i)    all project accounts will be audited annually in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para 3.31);
(ii)   standard bidding documents and letters of invitation satisfactory to the Bank will
be used in all procurement financed by the Bank under the project (para 3.13);
(iii) the Ministry will support UNESP and UESCN, within the SEE, with a staffing
plan acceptable to the Bank and the project coordinator and unit heads will at all
times be persons whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.51);
(iv)   each of the project states will support a project unt with a coordinaor reporti
directly to the State Secretary of Education, with a staffing plan acceptable to the



- 46 -
Bank, and the project coordinator and unit heads will at all times be persons
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank (para 4.8);
(v)    by August 31 of each year, each state will submit for Ministry of Education
review its draft PAA, or annual implementation plan, for carrying out all project
components during the following calendar year; these PAAs will include proposed
programs of school construction and rehabilitation sub-projects (PAls) consistent
with the agreed guidelines (para 4.12);
(vi)   by September 30 of each year, the Ministry of Education will submit the PAAs
proposed for each of the four states and UESCN to the World Bank for its
review; thereafter, the Ministry and the states will prepare final versions of these
PAAs, taking all Bank comments into account, by no later than November 30
(para. 4.12);
(vii)  by October 31, 1993 and, thereafter, by not later than May 30 of each year, the
Ministry of Education will conduct an assessment of each state's progress with
respect to its Annual Management Efficiency Target (AMETs) for that year
(para. 2.44);
(viii)  by November 30, 1993 and, thereafter, by not later than June 30 of each year, the
Ministry will determine in consultation with and in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, the amounts to be allocated to each eligible state for the Time-Slice
component for the following calendar year (para. 2.44);
(ix)   by not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year, the Ministry will
furnish to the Bank progress reports on the execution of the project, based on
reports to be submitted by the states no later than one month earlier (para. 4.13);
(x)    by October 31 of 1993 and June 30 of each subsequent year (except for 1995), the
states and the Ministry of Education will participate with the Bank in an overall
review of project execution, focusing on: (a) achievement of project objectives
and ii) any changes in project design and implementation that may be necessary.
Progress in implementation of the project will be measured in accordance with the
agreed output and outcome indicators (para 4.13);
(xi)   by May 31, 1995, the Ministry of Education will furnish terms-of-reference
satisfactory to the Bank for the project mid-term review (para. 4.14);
(xii)  by June 30, 1995, the states and the Mmistry of Education will participate with
the Bank in a mid-term review of project execution focusing on inter alia: (a)
overall project execution; (b) states' progress in improving management efficiency
and the appropriateness of the AMETs for the second half of the project; (c)
states' progress in improving education quality and reducing repetition; and (d)
progress of the Ministry of Education in developing and implementing a
comprehensive reform of the national textbook and national school lunch
distribution programs (para 4.14);



- 47 -
(xiii) the Ministry of Education will by March 31 of each year furnish a report
satisfactory to the Bank showing the amounts transferred to each project state and
eligible municipality for the financing of basic education during the preceding year
and the allocations for each project state and municipality for the year in which
the report is prepared, such allocations to be made in accordance with the
objective and transparent criteria set forth in the Ministry's Sistematica Para
Finandlamento de Projetos na Area de EducavCo Bdsica, Portarla No. 1878)
throughout the project period (para 2.49);
(xiv)  the Ministry of Education wIll maintain a program of technical assistance to FAE
and the states acceptable to the Bank for at least the first two years of project
implementation (para. 2.31);
(xv)  the Ministry of Education will by not later than June 30, 1993 develop and install
within each state project unit and within the project coordination units at the
Ministry of Education a computerized information system acceptable to the Bank
for recording the financial commitments and disbursements under the project (para
4.9);
(xvi)  the Ministry of Education will by not later than June 30, 1994 develop and install
within each project unit the remaining modules of a computerized project
management information system satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.9);
(xvii) the Ministry of Education will by not later than December 31, 1993 revise the
Project Operational Manual in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.11); and
(xviii) the Ministry of Education will by not later than January 31, 1994 furnish terms-
of-reference satisfactory to the Bank for a study of the efficiency of the national
school lunch program (para. 2.57); and
(xix)  retroactive financing of up to $15,000,000 for expenditures made after July 31,
1992 would be permitted (para. 3.32).
6.2           The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(i)   submission by MEC of a final operational plan for the national component
acceptable to the Bank (para 2.59);
(}i)   submission by the states of fir%t eperational plans for the education management
component acceptable to the Kmistry of Education and the Bank (para 2.12).
(iii)  formal establishment of the National Project Support Unit (UNESP) and the
Project Support Unit for the National Component (UESCN) by the Ministry of
Education and the State Project Support Units (UESPs) by each of the four states,
staffed by professionals with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
(paras. 4.3 and 4.7);



- 48 -
(iv)   signing by each of the four states with the federal government of a subsidiary
Loan agreement acceptable to the Bank, stipulating State concurrence with the
conditions and project activities described in the Loan and Project Agreements
(para 3.30); and
(v)   submission by MEC of final terms-of-reference acceptable to the Bank for the
study of alternative financing mechanisms for the national textbook program (Para
2.57).
6.3           Conditions of disbursements to any state for each year of the Time-Slice
component will be:
(i)    agreement on an appraised program of state and municipal construction
subprojects and equipment and furniture purchases to be executed during the year
in question (para 2.45); and
(ii)   achievement by that state of its agreed Annual Management Efficiency Targets for
the period in question (para 2.45).
6.4          With the above conditions and assurances, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$212 million equivalent to the Federative Republic of Brazil, to be repaid
over a period of fifteen years, including five years of grace, with interest at the Bank's stndard
variable rate. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 15 million for expenditures incurred after July
31, 1992 (in the period up to twelve months prior to the date of loan signing) is recommended
(para 3.32).



-49-
Anut I
Pagp 1 of 5
Noreast Basic Education U Project
PRoject Base Coss by Component and Year
Ban Costs in USS (Millions)        Total
Project Components                      1993   1994   1995   1996   1997         eosts
A: Educational Management
a) Strengthening plmning capacity      0.78    0.98    0.98    0.72    0.52     3.98
b) Human resources management          0.68    1.00    0.90    0.72    0.52     3.82
c) School quality monitoring           0.50    0.50    0.65    0.62    0.60     2.87
d) Integrated management information    1.30    1.90    1.30    0.70    0.40    5.60
e) Support unit                        0.30    0.42    0.42    0.37    0.53     2.03
Subtotal                                 3.56    4.80    4.25    3.13    2.57    18.30
B: Educational Materials
a) Textbooks                           12.66    6.98   13.81    7.73   14.95   56.15
b) Reading books                       16.57    3.46    3.64    3.81    3.97   31.44
c) Didactic materials                   6.22    5.80    0.73    0.00    0.00    12.75
Subtotal                                35.46   16.24   18.18   11.54   18.92    100.34
C: Teacher Training                      1.94    9.59    3.10    7.13    3.50   25.26
D: Time Slice Financing
a) Civil works                         22.48   29.02   29.57   29.75   29.44    140.25
b) Equipment                            1.00    1.65    1.58    1.67    1.40    7.29
c) Bookshelves                         12.98    0.09    0.13    0.16    0.15   13.51
Subtotal                                36.46   30.76   31.28   31.58   30.98    161.05
E: Innovation Fund                       0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    4.00
F: National Component
a) Education evaluation                0.65    0.97    1.26    0.88    0.96     4.71
b) System policy anaysis               0.12    0.33    0.32    0.32    0.26     1.35
c) Education management                0.50    0.55    0.60    0.60    0.58     2.83
d) Textbook & lunch prograreform       0.21    0.27    0.20    0.09    0.04     0.82
Subtotal                                 1.47    2.12    2.39    1.88    1.84    9.71
TOTAL-BASELINE COSTS                    7a   6430    0. 
Physical Contingencies                  4.52    4.47    4.64    4.20    4.55   22.39
Price Contingencies                     2.63    5.22    7.53    9.42   12.70   37.48
TOTAL PROYECT COSTS                     M6.S    3.9      6      69- ;     6      75



-50-
Annex I
Brazil                          Page 2 of 5
Norte  Basic Education U  roect
Project Componts by Year
Total Costs Including Conligetcies
US$ (Millions)
---------~~~~~~~~~-~- ----- --   Total
Project Components                  1993    1994    1995       1996    1997      costs
A: Educational Management
a) Strengthening planning capacity  0.81    1.05     1.09     0.83    0.62      4.41
b) Human resources management      0.71     1.08     1.00     0.83    0.62      4.24
c) School quality monitoring       0.52     0.54     0.72     0.72    0.72      3.22
d) Integrated management information  1.39  2.10     .47      0.82    0.48      6.26
e) Support unit                    0.31     0.45     0.47     0.42     0.64     2.29
Subtotal                            3.73     5.21     4.76     3.63     3.08     20.42
B: Educational Materials
a) Textbooks                       13.79    7.88    16.17     9.39    18.83    66.07
b) Reading books                   18.05    3.90     4.26     4.62    4.99     35.83
c) Didactic materials              6.78     6.55     0.U4    0.00      0.00     14.17
Subtotal                            38.61    18.34    21.28    14.01    23.82    116.06
C: Teacher Training                 2.02    10.31     3.46     8.24     4.19     28.22
D: Time Slice Financing
a) Civil works                    26.48    37.02    37.57    37.75    35.98    174.79
b) Equipment                       1.15     1.84     1.76     1.87     1.58     8.19
c) Bookshelves                     14.58    0.10     0.14     0.18    0.17      15.16
Subtotal                           42.21    38.96    39.47    39.79    37.72    198.15
E: Innovation Fund                  0.80     0.80     0.80     0.80     0.80     4.00
F: National Component
a) Education evaluation            0.71     1.10     1.49     1.10     1.26     5.66
b) System policy analysis          0.13     0.38     0.38     0.39     0.35      1.63
c) Education management            0.55     0.63     0.72     0.75     0.76     3.40
d) Textbook & lunch program reform  0.23    0.31     0.24     0.11     0.06      0.95
Subtotal                             1.61    2.42     2.84     2.35     2.42     11.64
TO;ALPROJECT COSTS               -- :    -   3       72-61:   6        .*    37X8



-51-                              hAnne1
Page 3 of S
Table 3.1
Brazil
Northeat Basic Education U1 Project
Project Cot Summay
Base Costs in US$ (millions)  % Total
Project Components                           Lo         Foreign       Total   Base Costs
A: Educational Management
a) Strengthening planning capacity           3.98                    3.98          1.2
b) Human resources management                3.82                    3.82          1.2
c) School quality monitoring                 2.87                    2.87          0.9
d) Integrated management informtation        2.36        3.24        5.60          1.8
e) Support unit                              2.03                    2.03          0.6
Subtotal                                     15.06        3.24        18.30         S.7
B: Educational Materials
a) Textbooks                                56.15                   56.15         17.6
b) Reading books                            15.72       15.72       31.44          9.9
c) Didactic materials                        6.38        6.38        12.75        4.0
Subtotal                                     78.25       22.10       100.34        31.5
C: TeacherTaning                             25.26                    25.26         7.9
D: Time Slice Financing
a) Civil works                             140.25                   140.25        44.0
b) Equipment                                 3.41        3.88        7.29          2.3
c) Bookshelves                              13.51                    13.51         4.2
Subtotl                                     157.17        3.88       161.05        50.5
E: lInovation Fund                            4.00                    4.00          1.3
F: National Component
a) Education evaluation                      2.14        2.57        4.71          1.5
b) System policy analysis                    1.25        0.11         1.35         0.4
c) Education management                      2.30        0.54        2.83          0.9
d) Textbook & lunch progam reform            0.27        0.55        0.82          0.3
Subtotal                                      5.95        3.76        9.71          3.0
TOTAL BASEINE  COSTS                        -=q          3           31 -
Physical CoDtinencies                       20.57        1.82       22.39          7.0
Price Contingencies                         34.03        3.46       37.48         11.8
AL                      ,     ,                            2 ,',     ;



-52-
Pagp 4 of 5
Brazil
FiMnaning Pl1  By    a
(TotlC,U Mig   C
(US$ SMM)
LOCAL                  FOREIGN                   TOTAL
Total -               Total                     TOt
Project Component     Pedeal  State BRD  Local FalSt tat BRD FModeal  Stat  IBRD  project
A: STATE LEVEL PROGRAM
3)-we!ptcaiu*       X 4   !41
3)1a        --        -1-         -
..   ...... ... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ''.~ ,
4}^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



-53-
Page 5 of S
ET     TD DMUSEPTS
Total Costs, Including Contgcies
(US$ million)
Annual             57.0"1  43.9    44.0   35.1   22.4       9.6
Cumulative         57.0   100.8   144.8  179.9  202.4   212.0
BJcdq US$15 hNM Ro tmt.



- 54 -
ASnnex 2
Page I of 4
Bmaa
Norheast Basic Educaio  II Project
Project Compoents by Yea
Costs Icluding Conigencies
iSTrATE: 16ALARANMOk(
Costs with Coningencies in US$ (000)
~~^~~~~~~~ ---     -      ---~~~~~~~~~~ -- -- ---        Tota
1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      costs
A: Educational Management
a) Strengthening Planning Capacity              186        242       251        192        143      1,015
b) Human resources management                   162        247       231        192        143       975
c) Educational material management              119        124        167       165        165       740
d) Integrated management information            320        482       339        189        110      1,440
e) Physical resources mgt. support uit           72        103        107        98        146       526
Sub-total of A:                                  859       1,199     1,095       835        709      4,696
B: Educational Materials
a) Textbooks                                  4,323      2,937      5,475     3,728      6,749    23,212
b) Reading books                              5,976      1,357      1,532     1,717      1,908     12,490
c) Didactic materials                          2,333     2,258        196                          4,787
Sub-total of B:                                12,632     6,552      7,203     5,445      8,6t7    40,489
C: Teacher Training                             1,004     4,173       756      3,683        637     10,253
D: Time Slice Financing
a) Civil works                                7,200     11,041     11,184    10,581      9,409    49,415
b) Equipment                                   1,013     1,494      1,462     1,550      1,232     6,751
c) Bookshelves                                4,487         44       102        136        126     4,895
Sub-total of D:                                12,700    12,579     12,748     12,267    10,767    61,061
E: Innovation Fund                               200        200       200        200        200      1,000
TOTAL COSTS                                    27,395    24,703     22,002     22,430    20,969    117,499



-55-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Brail
Ntheast Basic Education U Pojec
Project Components by Year
Cost Including Contgencies
STATE: PERNAMBUCO
Costs with Contingencies in US$ (000)
---- - -----------------------------    ~ ~ ----       Total
1993      1994      1995      1996       1997     costs
A: Educational Management
a) Strengthening Planning Capacity           243        316       328       250        187     1,324
b) Human resources management                212        323       301       250        187     1,272
c) Educational material management            156       161       217       215       216        965
d) Integrated management information         417        629       442       246        144     1,878
e) Physical resources mgt. support unit       94        135       140       127        191       686
Sub-total of A:                              1,120     1,564      1,428     1,088       925     6,125
B: Educational Materials
a) Textbooks                                4,695     2,516     5,232      2,913     5,822    21,178
b) Reading books                            6,064     1,262      1,360     1,440     1,523    11,650
c) Didactic materials                       2,339     2,258       183                          4,780
Sub-total of B:                             13,098     6,036      6,775     4,353     7,345    37,607
C: Teacher Training                            805     1,422       822        59      2,870     5,977
D: Time Slice Financing
==
a) Civil works a/                          10,590    12,346    12,525    12,988    13,469    61,918
b) Equipment                                   0          0         0         0         0          0
e) Bookshelves b/                           5,331        17        11        11         11     5,381
Sub-total of D:                             15,921    12,363    12,536    12,999    13,480    67,299
E: Innovation Fund                             200       200       200       200        200      1,000
TOTAL COSTS                                 31,145    21,584    21,760    18,700    24,820   118,008
a/ Time-Slice allocations for Pernambuco based an this item only.
b/ Bookshelves to be procured by the state without Bank finacing.



-56-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Brazi
NQa*md8 Bak Eduae f rj
jAava" PCoepo_bby Yews
cods lwlftcl dga
STATE:*CER
Cost with Coat cios in US$ T(000)l
----      Total
1993      1994       1995      1996       1997      costs
A: Educational Management
a) S      g  Planning Capacity               218       285        295        225       168      1,191
b) Human resourcs managemt                   190       290        271        225       168      1,145
c) Eduational materi management              140        14S       196        194       194        869
d) Integrated maagent infonration            375       566        397        m         130      1,690
o) Pbysical resources mggL supponrtx it       84        121       126        115       172        618
Sub-totl of A:                               1,008     1,407      1,285       980       832      5,513
B: Educadonal Materias
a) Textbooks                               3,597      1,756     4,144      1,986      4,763    16,247
b) Reading books                           4,407       945       1,010     1,082      1,155     8,598
c) Didactic materias                       1,741      1,694       124                           3,559
Sub-total of B:                             9,745      4,395     5,277      3,068      5,918    28,403
C: Tocher Training                             92      4,333      1,767     4,078       616      10,885
D: Time SUce Financing
a) Civil works a/                          7,837     10,477     11,005    11,345     10,316    50,980
b) Equipmen                                    0         0          0          0         0          0
c) Boksbelves b/                           3,357         19        29         29        29      3,463
Sub-totl of D:                              11,194    10,496     11,034    11,374     10,345    54,443
E: Innovation Fund                            200        200       200        200        200      1,000
TOTAL COSTS                                 22,240    20,831     19,562     19,700    17,911    100,243
aI Time-Slice alocations for Ceam based on dis item ony.
bJ Bookshelves to be procured by th. stot without Bank financing.



-57--
Annx 2
Page 4 of 4
Brazi
N          1rma BacEducto 1Pj
Pj          C       by Year
costs clding  Co8gences
STATE: SERGIPE
Costs with Contnnie. in US$ (000)
Total
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      costs
A: Educational Management
a) Stengthean  Planning Capcity             162        211       219        167       125       882
b) Human resources mangement                141        21S       201        167       125        848
c) Educational material management          104        108       145        143       144       644
d) Integrated mnagemont iformaon            278        419       294        164        96      1,252
e) Physicsl resources mgt support unit       63         90        93         as       127       458
Sub-total of A:                              747      1,043       9S2        726       616      4,083
B: Educational Materias
a) Textbooks                               1,173       675      1,325       762      1,496     5,431
b) Reading books                           1,S98       340       361        384       408      3,090
c) Didactic materials                       S28        508        43                           1,079
Sub-total of B:                             3,299     1,523      1,729     1,146      1,904     9,600
C: Teacher Training                           114       385       117        422        72      1,109
D: Time Slice Financing
a) Civil works                              849      3,154     2,857      2,836     2,781     12,477
b) Equipment                                138        346       296        315       346      1,441
c) Booksbhlves                             1,408        17         0          0         0      1,425
Sub-total of D:                             2,395     3,517      3,1S3     3,1S1      3,127    15,343
E: Innovation Fund                           200        200       200        200       200      1,000
TOTAL COSTS                                 6,755     6,667      6,150     5,644      5,919    31,135



-58-
Annex 3
Page I of 1
BRAZIL
NORT]HEAST BASIC EDUCATION II PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW TEHOWLDS
(UJS$ F0"e
CATIlGO      R     TYPE OF           MDlR AN=           rgVlnW   CACTGGREGATI
EPit0rUREMENT                             Yam             LI
1. CivilWorks  e        ICB             allcontracts    >1,000,000             NA
e       LCB                     a/      <1,000,000             NA
o       Local                  NA        < 100,000     157,000,000
Shopping
2. Textbooks    o       ICB             all contacts            al1             NA
and
Thes'
Guides
3. Reading      e       ICB             aU contrats             aln            NA
Books
4. Equipment   e        ICB             all contrats      >300,000             NA
& FuPre   e          LCB               >250,000       <300,000        4,000,000
o       Local
Shopping               NA         <50,000        2,000,000
S. Educational  *       ICB             all contrats      >300,000             NA
Materials
(other than
books)
NA. Not applicable
al First to contrcts from each sate will be reviewed. No contta abovo US$300,000 are
expected, and standardized bidding documents approved by the Bank will be used.



Page 1 of 6
THE PROJECT STATES: CEARA, MARANHAO, SERGIPE AND
PERNAMBBUCO
(A)   C-ama
1.           Ceara, with a population of 6.3 million in 1991, is the third largest
state in the Northeast in terms of population and the fourth largest In terms of size.
The state has 178 municipalities and about half of the population lives in rural areas.
Per capita income in Ceara is one of the highest in the Northeast. Ceara has a
tradition of good economic management at the state level and the state budget has
been in surplus for the past several years. The last two state governments !have also
placed considerable emphasis on education, and the state Is recognized throughout
Brazil for its innovative policies to improve education management and education
quality.
2.           Enrollments. Teachers and Schools. In 1991, 1,246,842 children
were enrolled in primary school in Ceara, with 41 % of enrollments In municipal
schools, 34% in state schools, 25% in private schools, and 1% in federal schools.
Almost three-quarters (73%) of primary enrollments were concentrated in the first
four grades, and nearly one-half (47%) in grades 1 and 2. Municipal schools
account for 53% of enrollments in grades 1-4 and state schools, 32%. Table 2.1
provides more information.
Table 4.1
CEARA: Enrollments, Teachers and Schools, 1989
Grades 1-4
l               ~~~~~~Enrollment   TecKhers           Schools!2
State                  217,335             10,054             1,069
Municipal              358,523             23,567            12,382
Total                  680,652             33,621            14,327
\1: The number of teachers in grades 1-4 is estimated,
proportional to student enrollments in grades 1-4.
\2: 1991
Source: MEC, tProjeto de Educacao Basica Para o Nordeste -
Carta Consulta"
3.           Ouaitv and Efficiency Indicators. bf the 938,173 students enrolled
in grades 1-8 in 1988, just 41,650 were in grade 8. Assuming that all of those In
grade 8 graduated (which is an overestimate, given average dropout rates of about
10% in the eighth grade in Brazil), Ceara state and municipal education systems
provided more than 22 years of schooling for each primary graduate they produced,
or 2.8 years of schooling provi4ed for each year successfully completed. Only 1 out
of 6 students entering first grade is likely to reach eighth grade, for an estimate
terminal efficiency rate of 16%. This represents a huge loss in terms of human
capital formation and efficiency of education spending.



-60-                         Annex 
Page 2 of 6
4.           Certainly one factor in explaining high repetition and dropout in
Ceara is the low quality of the teaching force. Among primary teachers In Ceara,
60% have not completed primary school themselves. Age-grade distortions are
another factor: in 1991 more than 50% of grade 1 students (who are in theory 7
years old) were nine years old or older. Overcrowding in some regions is also a
problem - some schools are reported to function five shifts per day, and have 40
students per classroom.
5.           Serious challenges remain in the education sector in Ceara, but
successive state governments in recent years have made impressive efforts to
improve education quality. In 1990, the state education secretariat took the
innovative step of administering cognitive tests to all state teachers in order to
develop an accurate measure of teacher competency, to aid in the design of more
effective teacher training programs. The state also carried out a major staffing
retrenchment in the education sector, laying off almost 6,000 of the 48,0000-person
worlforce in 1991. However, the constitutionality of this action was subsequently
challenged (because the constitution afforded civil servants Job stability) and the state
is continuing to pay the salaries of the dismissed individuals.
6.           Education Financing. The state currently spends about 18 percent of
its total budget on education. Of this education budget 93 percent goes to personnel
and other recurrent costs, with just 7 percent dedicated to investment. Spending in
the state primary school system is estimated at US$ 100 per student for 1990,
slightly higher than weighted average primary unit costs for the Northeast as a whole
(US$86 in 1990). Ceara is in relatively good financial circumstances, having run
budget surpluses averaging about US$100 million per year (or roughly 20% of total
spending) in 1990 and 1991, and depending on federal transfers for just 35 percent
of total revenues.
(B)     raMnhao
7.           Maranhao, with a population of 5.2 million in 1990, is the fourth
largest state in the Northeast in terms of population and the second largest in terms
of size. The state has 136 municipalities and about 62% of the population lives in
rural areas. Per capita income in Maranhao is one of the lowest in the Northeast.
Maranhao is one of the most traditional states in the Northeast in terms of politics
and economic management; land-owning elites dominate party politics and
clientelism is widely practiced. The state is poor and heavily dependent upon
federal transfers. The education system in Maranhao is the most heavily municipal
in the Northeast.
8.           Enrlments. Teachers and Schools. In 1991, slightly over 1
million children were enrolled in prirhary school in Maranhao, with 56% of
enrollments in municipal schools, 28% in state schools, 14% in private schools, and
2% in federal schools. The primary gross enrollment rate in 1989 was 77 percent
for the state as a whole, but just 60 percent in rural areas. Eighty-one percent of
primary enrollments were concentrated in the first four grades, and close to two-
thirds (62%) of total primary enrollments were in grades I and 2. There are 18
times as many municipal primary schools in Maranhao as state schools. Table 2.2
provides more information.



-61-                          Anne4
Page 3 of 6
Table 4.2
MARANHAO: Enrollments, Teachers and Schools, 1989
Grades 1-4
EZnrollm=n        Teachers           Magho6Ie
State                   170,223             9,721              606
Municipal              691,758             21,900            10,754
Total                  937,758             31,621            11,360
U: The number of teachers in grades 14 is estimated,
proportional to student enrollments in grades 14.
\2: 1991.
Source: MEC, 'Projeto de Educacao Basica Para o Nordeste -
Carta Consulta"
9.           Ouality and Efficiency Indicators. Of the total number of students
enrolled in state and municipal primary schools in 1989 (1,035,541), only 24,397
were in grade 8. Assuming all of those in grade 8 graduated (which, again, is an
overestimate), state and municipal education systems i" Maranhao provided over 40
years of schooling to produce each primary graduate, or 5 years of schooling for
each year successfully completed at the primary level. Only 1 out of 15 students
entering first grade is likely to reach the eighth grade, for an estimated terminal
efficiency of just 7%. The efficiency of student flows in Maranhao is the lowest in
the Northeast, and probably the lowest in Brazil.
10.          It is interesting to note that, although Maranhao's repetition and
dropout rates are significantly worse than Ceara's, Maranhao's primary school
teachers are somex"'hat better educated; only 40% of primary teachers in
Maranhao have a primary education or less. Age-grade distortions are severe in
Maranhao: in 1989 more than 80% of all students were overage for their grade.
11.          Education Financing. Maranhao has invested significantly less in
education than other Northeast states over the past five years - only 12 percent of
its total budget annually (1987-1992). To some extent, this reflects the relatively
share of primary enrollments the state handles, but it also reflects the low quality of
state primary schools: About 92 percent of the education budget goes to personnel
and other recurrent costs, with roughly 8 percent dedicated to investment. Only
about half (51 percent) of state education spending goes to the primary level, which
is very low, given the fact that primary enrollments make up 95 percent total state
education enrollments. This is explained by Maranhao's high spending on central
administration (32 percent of the education budget in 1989 and 21 percent in 1990).
12.          Spending in the state primar" school system is estimated at just US$
53 per student for 1990, which was significantly lower than the average for the



14, 144c  4444o    *444io tl t-J1*-41v4ii t,4-1664  14j J4144.16.1 444 6i     444 44 .   0.44 4   4110144 
+4+41XlJI 44   .4 j s.4 li i..444 4  44i  ptt4.4441400        0 144-114j 4i  W I444t   4.4*411     4WO4    4     ¶..4.l441 f4
k" 1416(4 444.-..444444 *41 44    44R44.444                         W  W,6        W4 *..4464  044k' 4W u   -$44144.-
*4  N  *4i ~      ~ ~ ~            A                                 *1141i14                   0  14  4l41-t
14.46. 14i 1 44 ll4      1, 1,4     144 44i44 o4,       *     P,.44 i41 1 446 i441 6   1* .  ."144w   I.4 ."o    4 4-4 4l.4
WA4.  414i.4444   % i    41. .44*  644144 4                   441 144  444(4  *1(+   e4 *4 .(Jd4ll   1.4 4i6 i. 1#4        I & 40146
li. ~J441~ 41 1141. 14114l..l4 1h4 4144. I 14.44.44..,A4  d44'i4j..* 4... ki'        4   lilt J41J444    OtAi
411444 41. ~4 ~144  4 6w,kbl                    .4;  &twW  14.41.. i      .444 i i" 4644i4 4.4 IJ44l-'4iA .~44-i#i oi   1e L
bsI.' t4  * 4.44 44*j44 144 jXI4441*s   . .    i4 "S..40ij*4-  .' id0i4Wsi            i    .o 1 41.614 4 04414   144 V*b64444.
1      vl4~'c   i         d ,4 t - e   4414 611h.1444 14i       b        P66.640
4.44A4114444.4  44444  1.44  -144     iii.".41444444 4 aw   ~44. 4,444  f44  454_4 4 .44.jj44. 4  4 1j4444.  I444  i~
1424i   6414 114 444414 144 j4i4kl         l t4i i&4      446iV6 .'444454.44.        ki . 4IiA   64 4,444.4   4444   4'tit1
i4     41i .       i4it,k ..      I444t  i13U'4'-  .44441            64;a                     16  II4"10.O
;W.4a, 641441     i44414444         1                             4  i."44 i4       4  i     4          04     L    i*l    44     44u
~b   pwub*zit u        wta e  iuz6 4 0*i  Ii UStJdW    .48.-t quilwo u  v**ilwt. PIl.a       .ti*                      "f4     XI
u" . JoI 6 .i6iS     41.4 E.6 A1.4.". l*. SI..J i @       14.i43     . 44 4 i4p1
44444    1wit W ~      ~ ~ ~ V3444.4  
k. b4tii ; iwmb,*   fi< tv.44crt ii. Os1s i6s  i4  i                     | b i     J
1:i.ipu'4iaQ      44     (1u41,           i          aY.C  -1As41i it,    1 4
Mbt, kIujiWt'A*  LIi. 4s...;  iXasiP  i'.ii  oY S  I.s                           ii4X8   X1t t 4. ... 'i.,-su  *^
i.W&i.bsa.6   i§i i* ijib i};' 4A1~i AMi 6   4bi      luJii~ e.                1tXx1  1444      44144 X >ud.
is5sdili       19i                        "41      WkiW        
Iu.    :     , 8    A.s4        ,6  Al.,. ii     ihusi it4 64AL, 8  ficaa4wJ   (whi.h,   =44117   =  i
Ovf O        a )   itaaulni.l^ai iAl v  uc;atio    syww    pvtidV    ok;,  "".S   >Vai    )



-63-                         Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
schooling to produce each primary graduate, or 3.5 years of schooling for each year
successfully completed at the primary level. Fewer than one in nine students who
enroll in first grade reach the eighth grade, for an estimated ternmnal efficiency rate
of 12%. Repetition in the first grade has remained above 40 percent since 1982,
and ap'ears to have increased in 1991 to 45 percent. With respect to dropout, about
one in five grade 1 students leaves school and about one in four grade 5 students.
16.          Certainly one factor in explaining such high repetition and dropout is
the low quality of the teaching force. Among primary teachers in Sergipe, 64%
have not yet completed the primary level themselves. Other factors include
inadequate supplies of books and educational materials; excessive centralization of
administrative functions and administrative overstaffing (60% of state education
personnel in Sergipe are administrative); and weak information systems resulting in
irrational resource allocation.
17.          Education Financing. Sergipe spent about 19 percent of its total
budget on education in 1990, down from an average of 27 percent between 1987 and
1989. About 89 percent of the education budget goes to personnel and other
recurrent costs, with 11 percent dedicated to investment. Spending in the state
primary school system was approximately US$ 88 per student in 1990, about
average for the Northeast (US$86 in 1990). In general terms, the state's financial
condition is not bad, having run small budget surpluses in recent years (equal to
about 10% of total spending. On the other hand, Sergipe derives about 50% of its
total revenue from federal transfers, suggesting heavy financial dependency.
(D)   pernambuco
18.          Pernambuco, with a population of 7.1 million in 1990, is the second
largest state in the Northeast in terms of population and fifth largest in size. The
state is the most heavily urban in the Northeast, with only 31% of the population
living in rural areas. Pernambuco has 167 municipalities. In addition to being the
most urbanized, Pernambuco has the most developed and diversified economy and
one of the highest per capita income levels in the Northeast. State economic
management is relatively good and recent governments have placed considerable
emphasis on education. Pernambuco is one of the three Northeast states which have
a higher share of primary enrollments in state schools than in municipal schools.
19.          Enrollments. Teachers and Schools. In 1989, about 1.5 million
children were enrolled in primary school in Pernambuco, with 44 percent of
enrollments in state schools, 42 percent in municipal schools, 15 percent in private
schools, and 0.2 percent in federal schools. The primary gross enrollment rate in
1989 was estimated at 73 percent for the state as a whole, but just 58 percent in
rural areas. In 1989, 69 percent of primary enrollments were concentrated in the
first four grades, and almost one-half (45%) of primary enrollments were in grades
1 and 2. Table 2.4 provides more information.



-64-                          Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Table 4.4
PERNAMBUCO: Enrollments, Teachers and Schools, 1989
Grades 1-4
Enrollment        Teachers't        Schools'
State            346,777            12,860           1,303
Municipal        518,378            18,441          1 8,373
Total            865,155           31,301            9,676           |
\l: The number of teachers in grades 14 is estimated,
proportional to student enrollments in grades 1-4.
\2: 1991
Source: MEC, "Projeto de Educacao Basica Para o Nordeste - Carta Consulta"
20.          The state secretariat of education employs 43,246 people, of which
29,426 (or 68 percent) are teachers. The average salary in the Pernambuco state
education system, US$ 4,178 per year, is close to double the Northeast average of
roughly US$ 2,162. Pernambuco's high salaries are reflected in a significantly
better-trained teaching force than in the other Northeast states; according to a 1988
survey, 91 percent of primary teachers in Pernambuco have a primary education or
higher.
21.          Ouality and Efficiency Indicators. Despite Pernambuco's relatively
qualified teaching force, repetition and dropout rates in the Pernambuco primary
school system are high. Based on data from 1988, out of every 100 first grade
students in Pernambuco, only 16 make it to the eighth grade. Thus, 22 years of
schooling are provided for each primary school graduate ptoduced. Dropout in the
early grades is a serious problem: only 51 percent of all students entering first grade
made it to third grade in 1988.
22.          Education Financing. Pernambuco has consistently spent about 20
percent of the state budget on education over the last five years. Of the education
budget, 89 percent goes to personnel, although underlying this in Pernambuco are
much higher average salaries and much lower staffing ratios than in the other
Northeast states. In Pernambuco, there are almost 18 students per state education
employee, compared with ratios of 7 or 8 to one in the other states. Nonetheless,
spending on educational materials, other recurrent inputs, and school rehabilitation
and maintenance is low in Pernambuco, because of the high share of the budget
absorbed by personnel. Total per student spending at the primary level was US$
100 (1990), slightly higher than the average for the Northeast states overall
(US$86). The state's overall financial condition is relatively good, having run small
budget surpluses in recent years (equivalent to just 1% of total spending), and
depending on federal transfers for only about one-third of its revenues.



-65-
Page 1 of 13
AMN ,L MNAGIM  EMEC TARG ]FO TESTAZO
The Government of the State of Maranhlo is committed to achieving measurable
improvements in the management efficiency of the State Secretariat of Education over the next five
years. To this end, the Secretariat has developed a five-year Operational Plan for improving
education management. Ihe Secretariat has also agreed with the Ministry of Education and the World
Bank on annua targets for measuring progress in this area and has agreed to annual performance
reviews, during which the Secretariat's progress in achieving its targets will be evaluated. The
technical and financial resources which the Secretariat requires in order to be able to achieve these
targets are being supported by the project's education management component.
A detailed description of the annual review methodology, including definitions and
data sources, are set out in the atached Technical Not. The targets adopted by the State of
Maranhio are presented below.
TMts to be verified in October 1993
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 11.03 by September 30, 1993.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 1.0% for 1992.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1993 approved budget.
Tarats to be verified In May 1994
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 11.47 by January 31, 1994.
2.    Achieve a mateials ratio of at least 1.5% for 1993.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1994 approved budget.
Targets to be verified In Ma 1995
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 11.94 by Janaury 31, 1995.
2.    Achieve a mateals rao of at least 2.0% for 1994.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1995 approved budget.
IT ts to be verified In May 1996
1.    Achieve a smtng atio of 12.42 by Janaury 31, 1996.



-66-
Page 2 of 13
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 2.5% for 1995.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1996 approved budget.
Tarts to be verified in May 1997
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 12.93 by Janaury 31, 1997.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 2.0% for 1996.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1997 approved budget.



-67-
Anex 5
Page 3 of 13
ANNUAL MZANAGEMENT EFPFCI =CY TARG  EIFRIE Tim                  E O1F cEAIA
The Government of the State of Ceard is committed to achieving measurable
improvements in the management efficiency of the State Secretariat of Education over the next five
years. To this end, the Secretariat has developed a five-year Operational Plan for improving
education management. The Secretariat has also agreed with the Ministry of Education and the World
Bankc on annual targets for measuring progress in this area and has agreed to annual performance
reviews, during which the Secretariat's progress in achieving its targets v il be evaluated. The
technical and financial resources which the Secretariat requires in order to be able to achieve these
targets are being supported by the project's education management component.
A detailed description of the annual review methodology, including definitions and
data sources, are set out in the attached Technical Note. The targets adopted by the State of Ceari
are presented below.
Targets to be verified In October 1993
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 12.3 by September 30, 1993.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 1.0% for 1992.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1993 approved budget.
Targets to be verified in May 1994
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 12.7 by January 31, 1994.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 1.5% for 1993.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1994 approved budget.
Targ   t9 be verified In May 1995
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 13.12 by Janaury 31, 1995.
2.    Achieve a maerials ratio of at least 2.0% for 1994.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1995 approved budget.
aget to b vrfied In  a 1996
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 13.55 by Janauy 31, 1996.



-68-
Page 4 of 13
2.    Achieve a mateials ratio of at least 2.5% for 1995.
3.    Demonstate that the necessary counterpart fimds for the project have been allocated in the
1996 approved budget.
Targetsto be verified In May 1
1.    Achieve a stamng ratlo of 14.0 by Janaury 31, 1997.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 2.5% for 1996.
3.    Demonsate that the necessary counterpart finds for the project have been allocated in the
1997 approved budget.



-69-
P4ge5 Of13
TIe Govemen  of the State of Penambuco is committed to achieg meaurable
improvement in the management efficiency of the State Secretariat of Educaion over the net five
years. To this end, the Secretariat has developed a five-yar Operational Plan for Improvin
education management. The Sereta  has also agreed with the Mint of Education ad the Word
Bank on annual targets for measuring progress in this area and has agred to annal performnc
reviews, during which the Secretaa's progres in achieving its target will be evaluated. rhe
teical and financial resources which the Secretaria requires in order to be able to achieve ths
targets are being supported by the projects education maagent component.
A detailed description of the anmual review methodology, including definitios and
data sources, are set out in the attached Ihnjg. IThe targets adopd by the State of
Pernambuco are presented below.
Targets to be verified In OCtor 19
1.    Achieve a saffing ratio of 17.3 by Septmber 30, 1993.
2.    Achieve a materl ratio of at least 1.0% for 1992.
3.    Demonstrate that the nesary countepart fnds for the project have been allocated in th
1993 approved budget.
rue to he verified In MaU 19
1.    Achieve a stffing ratio of 17.46 by January 31, 1994.
2.    Achieve a materials rato of at least 1.5% for 1993.
3.    Demonstrate that the neesary counepart funds for the project have been allocated in th
1994 approved budget.
Tares to be verified In Ma 1995
1.    Achieve a stffing rado of 17.63 by Janary 31, 1995.
2.    Achieve a materials rato of at least 2.0% for 1994.
3.    Demonstate that the necesary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1995 approved budget.
Targe to   be verifed In May 199I
1.    Achieve a stafng rato of 17.81 by Janaury 31, 1996.



-70-
Armex 5
Page 6 of 13
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 2.5% for 1995.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1996 approved budget.
TatI to be veified in Ma 199
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 17.98 by Janaury 31, 1997.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 2.5% for 1996.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1997 approved budget.



-71-
Anuenc 
Page 7 of 13
ANNUAL MIANAGvEMENr EFIlCENY MGMR EaTE E BrAT E OF1
The Government of the State of Sergipe is committed to achieving measurable
improvements in the management efficiency of the State Secretariat of Education over the next five
years. To this end, the Secretariat has developed a five-year Operational Plan for improving
education management. The Secretariat has also agreed with the Ministry of Education and the World
Bank on annual targets for measuring progress in this area and has agrd to annual performance
reviews, during which the Secretariat's progress in achieving its targets will be evaluated. The
technical and financial resources which the Secretariat requires in order to be able to achieve these
targets are being supported by the project's education management component.
A detailed description of the annual review methodology, including definitions and
data sources, are set out in the attached Technical Note. The targets adopted by the State of Sergipe
are presented below.
Targets to be veified in October 1993
1 .    Achieve a staffing ratio of 9.47 by September 30, 1993.
2.    Achieve a materials ratio of at least 1.0% for 1992.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been al'ocated in the
1993 approved budget.
Targets to be verifled In Ma! 1994
1.    Achieve a staffing ratio of 9.96 by January 31, 1994.
2.    Achieve a maters ratio of at least 1.5% for 1993.
3.    Demonstrate that the necessary counterpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1994 approved budget.
to he verified In Ma 1995
1.    Achieve a staffing rado of 10.47 by Janaury 31, 1995.
2.    Achieve a materals ratio of at least 2.0% for 1994.
3.    Demonstae tdat the nesary counterpart fumds for the project have been allocatd in the
1995 approved budget.
Tars to be verifled In Ma! 1996
1.    Achieve astaffng rado of 11.0 t y Janauy 31, 1996.



-72-
Am
Page 8 of 13
2.    Achie  a mateials ratio of at least 2.5% for 1995.
3.    Demo       a  t the necery counWpart funds for the project have been allocated in the
1996 approved budget.
Trtato ke verfled i. Mau 1997
1.    Aciieve a stafing rato of 11.56 by Janaury 31, 1997.
2.    Achiove a matwials rati of at least 2.S% for 1996.
3.    Demonstae that the necessay counterpart fiuds for the project have been allocated in the
1997 approved budget.



-73-
AM I
Page 9 of 13
ANNUAL MANAGEMENT ECENCY TARGE[S
Techacal Note
(A)          Introdutgtlno
1. One of the main objectives of the Northeast Basic Education ProJects (U and ml) is to help
State Secretais of Education (SEs) improve their efficiency in the management of education
resources - human, financial and physical. The projects will provide the means required to achieve
this objective through the ducation manant component. During the project, state secraetats'
progress in improving management efficiency will be monitored anmially by sysm cally trackdng
two key indicators: (i) the ratio of students to education employees (stafing rato); and (ii) the
proportion of education funds used for purchasing consumable matials for the state school system
(mateals ratio). These objectives have been translated into quantitative annual targets to be met by
the states, in relation to baseline indicators which reflect the pre-project situation in each state. State
budgets will also be monitored to ensure that adequate counterpart fuds for carrying out the project
are budgeted. As a condition of disbursements under the Time-Slice Component of the project, a
state must meet these three anual targets, called Annual Management Efficiency Targets, or AMETs.
2.    At the mid-term review of project execution planned for June 1995, the states themselves will
undertake a comprehensive evaluation of their progress in Improving education management. At this
time, the usefilness of the above indicators will be assessed as well, and the states, the Ministy of
Education, and the Bank will agree on any adjustments necessary in the specific AMETs set for the
second half of th* project.
3.    Annual Roews of AOTs. During project execution, annual reviews wil be carried out to
veify whether the SEs are meetng their targets and improving education management efficiency.
These reviews will be carried out by the Ministry of Education, in consultation with the Bank.
4.    Tedncal             . lhe project es have agreed to have their payrll, budget and
expenditures documents analyzed annually by a technical commission established by NEC. This
annual analysis will be divided into four parts: (a) an analysis of the va=W1I to establish the number
of employees at the end of the period under review; (b) an analysis of the ste fiMl, eeted budget
(Balanco fil) for the most recent available year; (c) an analysis of the most recent budget w (also
published by the Finance Secreaiat) to verify adequate project contpart funds; and (d) official
enrollment in the state education system, as estimat by the Minstry of Education. Each state
report will have exactly the same content and organization and all  u ng documentation will
be attached (for eample, copies of relevant portions of payroll sheet, the BaMwo hwal, and budget
law).
5.    DmgaIei for  A   tmhwa. States' AMETs will be reviewed in May of each year of the
project, expt for 1993, when the review will be cafried out in October. On the bai of the data
collected, the Commission wil calculate the relevant performance indicators for each state. Ihe
Commission rqer will complete its reports by no later than May 31 of each year (and October 15,
1993) and will send copies of the rot siutaneouslto the SE of the renetva asm teIn tho *aft



-74-
Annex 5
Page 10 of 13
Project Support Unit), MEC (clo UNESP), and the World Bank. Thereafter, MEC will utilize the
Commission's reports to determine which states qualify for investment program financing under the
Time-Slice component for the following calendar year, and communicate its recommended allocations
for each of the states to the World Bank. After consultation, MEC and the Bank will, by June 30 of
each year (and by November 15 in the case of 1993), inform the states of their Time-Slice allocations
for the following calendar year. Should a state not meet its AMETs and thus be ineligible for Time
Slice funding in that year, MEC will re-allocate the unused funds to those states which are eligible, or
to other project components, in consultation with the Bank. The principle for reallocating Time-Slice
resources will be to reward those states which have exceeded their targets, in proportion to the degree
to which they exceed their targets, subject only to limits of states' absorptive capacity. A state which
is ineligible for Time-Slice financing in a given year will be eligible the following year, as long as it
meets its targets for the following year; however, states will not be able to recover the forfeited
funding, because the funds will have been transferred to other states or other project components.
6.    Below is a detailed description of the methodology for calculating states' staffilg ratios and
materials ratios.
B.           S
7. Defininsm. The staffing ratio is defined as the ratio of the total number of students enrolled
In the state school system to the total number of staff employed by the SE. Due to the special
circumstances presented by some of the states, the following criteria for calculating this ratio were
agreed. Total state enrollments will include all students enrolled in the state public education system
in pre-school, literacy dasses (alfabedzacao), primary school, secondary school, and regular adult
education (supledvo regular). Total staff employed will: i) Include all staff listed on the payroll of
the state Secretariat of Education (folha de pagamento da SE); ii) exclude all retired staff listed on the
SE payroll; and iii) Include all temporary employees and trainees, apprentices, or student teachers
(estagtarlos) which are working for the SE but which do not appear on the SE payroll.
In March 1993, each SE also supplied the Commission with a list of all SE-employed teachers and/or
other staff currendy seconded to schools not run by the Secretariat of Education (escolas
convenadas). The number of SE personnel in this category is not to increase durir - he project
period. The SEs also supplied lists of all estagiarios.
8.    Baseline IPR Raio.   The baseline indicators for each state were calculated by the
Commission based on states' payroll data from January 1993 and the official MEC estimates of inidal
enrollments for each state for 1992 (maticula Icla).
Ceard:       12.3
Maranhao:   11.03
Srgpe:       9.47
Pewnambuco: 17.3



-75-
An= 5r
Page II of 13
9.    Annual Staffing Ratio Tarl s.   The Northeast states agreed that more efficient use of their
human resources In the education sector implied gradually increasing their staffing ratios from the
current levels towards a long-term goal of approximately 20:1, or 20 students for each education
employee. Other states in Brazil and other countries in Latin America have achieved well-functioning
education systems with staffing ratios of this order of magnitude. It was recognized by all parties,
however, that movement in this direction will have to be gradual, and based largely on non-
replacement of vacancies arising due to retirements or other departures from service, rather than any
outright retrenchments of staff, given limitations imposed by the Constitution in this area. The annual
staffing targets agreed with the states are feasible on this basis. All of the targets leave room for
fUling sm  vacancies, but would require reallocation of existing staff in order to deal with other
vacancies.
10.    The assessment of the management consultants and the World Bank is that the states should
be able to achieve these targets with no decline - and in fact increases - in the mulky of education
services, if they are careful to redefine functions and reallocate existing staff on a rational basis. This
would represent a significant improvement in the efficiency of human resource use in the education
secretatiat, and would free up budgetary resources, permitting increases in spending on
complementary educational inputs (such as books and materials) and/or gradual increases in staff
remuneration and incentives, which are important for attracting or retaining high-caliber staff. The
education management component of the project will support states' efforts in this area to rationalize
personnel management.                           --
11.   The staffing ratio targets for each state were based on: i) the state's baseline ratio; and ii) an
estmate of the annuial rate of improvement from this baseline required to ausin, in 15 years, a
staffing ratio of 20 students: 1 employee. A variation of plus/minus 2.5% around the established
target will be permitted at each measurement period, refleeing measurement error. States which
exceed their targets for a given year wfll receive priority if any funds under the time-slice component
are available for reallocation in that year. In the event that a state does not attain its staffing ratio
target for a particular year, that state's future targets will be recalculated, in order to permit
attaimnent of the 20:1 ratio within 15 years from the beginning of the project (i.e., a steeper rate of
progress will be required).
12.   Should the appropriate earollment data from the Ministry not be available at the time of future
AMEr reviews, an extrapolation of state enrollments will be made, based on the latest available MEC
estmates and the average annual growth of enrollments over the pror two years. In the event that
states' recent enrollment growth has been negative, the average anmnal growth rate of the overall
population in the state may be substituted.



-76-
Page 12 of 13
Annual Staffing Ratio Targps for State Seetaiats of Eduaion
Baseline  ,,93           1994        1995        199C        17
ceaa             12.30       12.30       12.70       13.12      13.5S      14.00
Maranblo        11.03        11.03      11.47        11.94      12.42      12.93
se8ipe           9.47        9.47        9.96        10.47      11.0       11.56
Pmambuc          17.30       17.30       17.46       17.63      17.81      17.98
C.            i
13.          Definihon. Ihe Indicator materIals ratio is defin  as the ratio of SE ependiture
on materials such as notebooks, chalk, paper, etc., to SE expenditures on consumable maerials plus
personnel. The numerator is derived from the budget category endded 'consumable materials"; the
denominator is the sum of the categories 'consumable materials' and "personnel" (excluding
expendiures on retired employees). To be expressed as a percent, this ratio will be multiplied by
100.
14.          BaseliD2 Indicators, For each state, a baseline materials ratio was caculated on the
basis of budgetary data preseAted in the Management Studies:
Cea (Management Study, Vol. I, p. 24, 1991):    0.14%
Maranhao (Maaement Study, Vol. I, p. 19, 1991):  1.34%
Srgpe (Management Study, Vol. 1, p. 28, 1990):   1.49%
Peambuco (Management Study, Vol. 1, p. 21, 1990): 1.8%
15.          Methodology to be Uilized in Reviews Starting in October 1993, the Commission
will conduct an analysis of the most recent Balanpo Pal for each state to obtn the required data
Thus, the materas rado will always represent the stats performance in the year preceding that of
the review.
16.          Coneece. In order to meet its maerals rado target, a state must have a
percentage of expeaditures on school materials (calculated according to the methodology described
above) equal to or greater than the target established for that year.
17.          Ann     Ar. The annual targets agreed with the staes for their materi  ratlos
are presented below:



-77-
Page 13 of 13
Annual Material Raoti Targets for Secretariats of Education°
_Baselne     1993      1994      1995     1996      1997
Ceara                 0.14%       1.0%       1.5%      2.0%     2.5%     2.5%
Maranhio              1.34%       1.0%       1.5%     2.0%      2.5%     2.5%
Sergipe               1.49%       1.0%       1.5%     2.0%      2.5%     2.5%
Penambuco             1.58%       1.09;      1.5%     2.0%      2.5%     2.5%
Notes: The years specified in the table refer to the dates at which the Materials Ratios will be
be measured (i.e., October 1993, and May 1994, 199S, etc.) The ratios themselves will
always be calculated from the previous fiscal year's Balano Final. Ihe consumable materis
budget category which is the basis for the measurement does not include textbooks. The
baseline data for Pernambuco and Sergipe were reported for the year 1990.



-78-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 15
GUIDELIES FOR THE TIME SLICE COMPONET
(A)   Preparation of States' Annual Investment Plans for Civil Works and Procurement of
Ggods M
1.    It was agreed with the representatives of the SEEs and MEC that states' Pianos Anuais de
Investimento (PAls) would be submitted annually to MEC by no later than August 31. After its
review, the Ministry will forward these PAls to the Bank by no later than September 30. This is to
allow enough time for a Bank mission to visit the states to discuss the proposed PAIs with state and
ministry officials, and to enable the states and MEC to prepare final PAls by no later than November
30. Attachment A shows a proposed form to be used to submit the civil works and goods
procuzement programs and indicates the minimum information the document should contain. The
form, grouped by school district, should contain, basically: (i) name of the unit; (ii) address; (iii) the
type of school system to which the unit belongs (municipal or state); (iv) type of intervention (new
construction or rehabilitation); and (v) estimated costs of the programmed civil works in cruzeiros and
in dollars, with reference to the date on which the estimate and respective cost was made. The same
format should be used for goods to be procured under the project.
(B)   Criteria for Agpralsal of the PAl for the Time Slice Component
2.    States' PAIs will be appraised according to the following criteria: Ci) local visits to certain
civil works in order to evaluate the performance of the SEE and the municipalities in the selection,
contracting, management and supervision of civil works during the previous period, as well as the
performance and quality of the contracted builders or municipalities; (ii) analysis of proposed goals;
(iii) analysis of any changes in unit costs, in dollar equivalents, for construction or items to be
procured since appraisal; (iv) analysis of any changes in the total costs, in dollars equivalent; (v)
analysis of quantities yet to be executed and of the uncommitted amount, in dollar equivalents, so as
to ensure an adequate implementation of the physical goals in terms of the availabilities of funds to
finance them; (vi) analysis of the budget proposals made by MEC and states identifying the respective
allocations of the national counterpart funds and external funds; (vii) analysis of any physical/financial
or adminstrative obstacles that have impeded or may impede proper implementation of the
programmed goals and the flow of funds; (viii) identification of the measures to be taken by various
government levels-federal, state and/or municipal-to overcome achtal or potential impediments; (ix)
analysis of all convenios and the addenda thereto between MEC and the State and between the State
and the municipalities included in the annual programming, so as to make feasible the transfer of
funds and execution of plans; and (x) review, if necessary, of the bidding documents and other
documents being used for procurement. Attachment B identifies the principal points to be evaluated
in the PAls prepared by the states.
3.    Agreements IConveniosl With Municipalities. It was agreed with MEC and the states that the
convenios between the State and the municipalities for purposes of implementing the time-slice
component should contain the same commitments as the agreement that the states sign with MEC.
Requests for reimbursement from the municipalities that are party to the agreement can be made only
after the municipalities involved have submitted statements of accounts, and only for eligible



-79-
Annaes 
Page 2 of 15
payments. Such statements of accounts shall contain, as a minimum, the following documents: (i)
transmittal letter; and (ii) first or second copy of the invoices, trade acceptance bills, and bills
submitted by construction contractors and/or suppliers, as well as interior and exterior dated photos of
the construction projects that are the object of the requests for reimbursement.
4.    Bidding Procedures. It was agreed that bids for civil works for school building expansion and
rehabilitation will be handled by 'packages" of schools located in a single geographical area, not
necessarily within the same municipality. It was also agreed that all packages valued at US$100,000
or more would be contracted via public competition (LCB). It will be mandatory that civil works
packages valued in excess of US$100,000 be bid via LCB, and those above US$1.0 million, bid via
ICB. The "waiver of bidding" mode will not be permitted, even if the value of the tender is within
the limits allowed by current federal, state, or municipal legislation. Requests for Price Quotations or
Invitations to Tender will be sent to companies that have pre-registered with the purchasing entity or
another state public body, and this registration must be renewed annually by nationwide publication of
a registration announcement. Purchases of computer equipment, office equipment, and office
furniture, vehicles, and all school equipment and furniture (except for school equipment and furniture
procured by the states of Ceara and Pernambuco) acquired with the loan funds must be packaged
insofar as possible into contracts of more than US$300,000 and procured through ICB. Given the
greater difficulty anticipated in the ICB procedures it was agreed that equipment and furnishings for
units in the municipal school system will be purchased on a centralized basis by the states, then
passed on to the municipalities. The agreements with these municipalities will stipulate this. It was
agreed that the prices in the tenders under the public competitive bidding mode will not be published,
and will obey the criterion of lowest price. In the event that a SEE wishes to establish, for a given
instance of LCB, upper or lower limits with reference to a base price (bracketing), that price will be
the average of the prices offered by the bidders who participate in that LCB. Those limits shall,
however, be + or - 15%. The Bank recommends that selection criteria be adopted that encourage
non-occurrence of tie bids. For example, a bonus can be included for reducing the deadline on the
anticipated construction timetable, or other criteria.
5.    Retroactive Financing. The mission informed the states of the possibility of negotiating
retroactive financing of eligible expenses on Project goals incurred in advance by the respective SEE;
i.e., expenditures made less than one year prior to the date of signature of the Loan Agreement and in
an aggregate amount of not more than 10 percent of the value, in dollar equivalent, of the loan to the
requesting State. The mission also reported that if the retroactive financing is approved, the states
should submit their requests not more than 30 days following the date of signature of the Agreement.
Otherwise, they will lose their right to same. Moreover, the expenses must fall within the agreed
value limit.
6.    Amounts of the Time Slice for Each State. Attachment C sums up the figures agreed with
each of the states and the Ministry at appraisal for the time-slice component for the five years of
project implementation. The total sum for civil works for the four states is approximately US$175
million; the total for equipment is approximately US$8.2 million. These estimates do not include the
costs of bookshelves and classroom book storage units which were estimated after the appraisal
mission. The total estimated cost of bookshelves in storage units is US$15.16 million. Of this
amount, US$5.4 million for Pernambuco and US$3.5 million for Ceard will not be subject to Bank
financing, as these states have opted to procure these items using procedures unacceptable to the
Bank.



-8n-
ArrACHMENT A                         Annex 6
EPge I gf 2                       Page 3 of 15
SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE NORTHEAST
"TIME SLICE" COMPONENT
PROGRAMMING OF:                  ( CML WORKS
0 EQUIPMENT
STATE:
SCHOOL       NAME OF      ADDRESS          TYPE            TYP.       ESIDATED
DiSUTCT    SCHOOL                           OF              OF       COSTS
SYSTEM          PROJECW
___________      __________     (STATEUMUNC.)   _ _ _  _ _ _
SUTaOTALS                                      '
TOTALS, OR TO BE CARRED FORWARD



-81-
ATIACHMENT A                                 Annex 6
p8   2 QtZ                               Page 4 of 15
YEAR ..  PAGE: /
SCHOOL DISTRICT ...........
COST IN CRS 1,000                                       COST IN USS 1.000
lstTdtiegr    2.4             3rd             4lITeimma    21                            3d          4
T,bneat.r       Tumutg         TUiSm_                         T,asst      T       -kus9u  Taimm
Cr5                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~US$



-82-
ATTACHMENT B
Pase t oS ~~~Annexc 6
Page 5 bf i5
METHODOLOGY FOR ASSESSMENT OF THE ANNUAL PROGRAM
OF CIVIL WORKS & PROCUREMENT OF GOODS
A.    Ihe analysis of the physical aspects must cover the following:
1.    D;termination of the tracts of land
* identification of the areas available
o determination of the most suitable area
* acquisition
* legalization
2.    Definition of the plans
o topographical survey
* test borings
o preliminary plans
* existence and
o approval
• complete working plan
3.    Agreement with city authorities
4.    Bidding documents
5.    Beginning the work
6.    Supervision/inspection
7.    Justification for deviations
8.    Changes in goals
B.    Analysis of the financial aspects shall include the following:
1.    US$ value as provided in the Agreement for a given goal
2.    Value of same in US$ according to the Annual Programming
3.    Contracted value of same in US$
4.    US$ value disbursed for same as of Programming date
5.    Financial availability of the component in the Project
6.    Analysis of the costs per m2 considered in the Programming in light of trends in the
construction market during the period.
C.    Analysis of the operational aspects shall include the following:
1.    Visit to the completed construction/rehabilitation project.
2.    Identification of the operations starting date
3.    Justifications for not entering into operation
* due to pending construction-related aspects
* due to partial or total lack of equipment/furnishings



-83-
ATrACHMENT BAne6
Pae 2.of 2               ~~Annexc 6
Page 6 of 15
* due to shortage of personnel
* due to shortage of consumable supplies
D.    Analysis as regards equipment and/or furnishings shall include the following:
1.    Bidding documents
2.    Timetable for deliveries, harmonized with the conclusion of the civil works
3.    Actual receipt of the equipment at the individual schools
4.    Justification for deviations
5.    Project 'unds availability
6.    Analysis of the unit costs of the items to be purchased.



-84-
A1RTACIO0PT c                                                Annex 6
ZaAeljof 9                                                    Page 7 of 15
SECON NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TIME SLICE CONPOEtT: CIVIL VURDS
STATE: CEARA                                                                                                      US Oillions
!Area I     I Unit  I
! of al Cost I Cost I  Qntities of Clas3roO3s    I   Total C/l Estimated Base Costs    I
I   CATECORY                          IClass! per  lUS p_
I     Rooo I 8q    Class  1 '93  '94  '95  '96  '97 !Totul! '93  '94  '95   '6   '97  Itotal
IA. Civl llorks                       I    I       I      I                         !
I    I      I         !                            1 !                           !
!1. Construction of 56 new municipal  I 150 10.2021 30.43 10  44  60  60  60! 224 ! 0.00  1.34  1.83  1.83  1.83 !6.82 i
!   schools in urban sites to               I     I        I                              I                                    !
I   expand the offer of clssroo       I    !       I       I                           I                     I          !      !
I                                     I     I      I      I                         I     !                             !
I2. Refurbishing of 1453 tbo class    1 85!0.050 ! 4.32 ! 700 600 600 600 406 !2906 13.02  2.59 2.59  2.59  1.75 !12.54 i
I   classe type wnicipal shools    I    I          I       i                        !    !
!   in urbannd rural sites            I    I       I       I                        I    !
I                                     I     I     I    I     !                      I       !
I3. Construction of clessrooms in     I 56 !0.143 ! 8.06 !  0  33  50  50  50 !1 83 ! 0.00 0.27 0.40 0.40 0.40 !1.47 !
!   municipal schools to eliminate the!     I      I       I                        I    I
I   intermediate shift in urban sites !    I       I       I                        I    I                              !
I                                     I     I      I       I                        I     I                             !
14. Sub-total of the Municipal Network!     I      I       1700 677 710 710 516 13313 !3.02 4.19  4.82 4.82  3.98 !20.83 !
5. Construction of clessrooms in    I 56 10.143 I 8.06 I  0  36  60  60  60 1 216 I0.00 0.29  0.48  0.48 0.48 !1.74 !
I   state schools to eliminete the    I    I       1      I                         I    I
!   intermediate shift in urbna sites I    I       I       I                        I                                   ! 
I                          ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~I    1  I  I                    I     3                                     I
IS. Refurbishing of 565 state         I113 10.024 ! 2.75 1 900 800 800 800 655 !3955 12.48  2.20  2.20  2.20  1.80 310.88 !
!   schools in urban nd rural sites         I      I       I                           I                                I
I   with an verage of 7 cla rooos.  !    I         I       I                        I    I                              !
I                                     I     I      I       I                        I     !!
17. Sub-total of the State Network    I    I       I       1900  836 860 860  715 14171 1 2.48 2.49 2.69 2.69  2.29 !12.62 !
!_____                          ________________________._____,,__,_                                          _____ 
I                                                          I                                                                   I !  !
!6rand Total: C/A for the Municipal and Stte Priary SchoolIL60  1513 1570 1570 1231 37484 !5.50  8.69 7.50  7.50 6.27 !33.45 I
Exchange rate of 07/0292: 1US$= Crt 3475.77
Sources: SUW ECONOMICA Magazine - Jun./92
Investment Plan of the State of Ceara - Ju/92.
Note: Refurbishing costs of schools to be expanded involved in Itets I and S are included in items 2 and 6.



-85-
ATTACUHENT C                                                 Annex. 6
P *62 f 9                    .Page 8 of 15
ECOD WRTHEAST BASIC EDUCATIOf  "ECT
TIME SLICE COIPONEHT: EO^UIPNENT
STATE: CEARA                                                                                            U$ Billions
I  lnit Cowtl                                                                  I
I  In    I  Quantities of ClasSrooms     ! Total Equip/ Estioated Base Costs
I          CATECORY                    I US$1000 I____
I                                      lper classl '93  '94  '95  '96  '97 INtWl !'93  '94  '9S   I6   '97  I Total
IB. Equipment                                    I                        !      !
!1. Equipuent for 56 na  aunicipal     !   4.95 !  0  44  60  60  60 !224  0.00 0.22  0.30 0.30 0.30 ! 1.11
!   schools in urban sites to          !           !                             I                             !
expand the offer of clasrooas      I         I                        I      I                            I
I                                      !         !                        !                     I                  I
12. Reequipuent for 1567 tao classrooms 1   0.70 1700 600 600 600 634 13134 10.49  0.42  0.42 0.42 0.451  2.20
I   type municip3l schools in urban    I         I                        I      I
and rural sites                    !        !                         !        !
!                           ~     ~ ~~~~~~I  I                  I      I                             I       !
13. Equipment for classrooms in        1   1.31 I  0  33  50  50  50   183 1 0.00 0.04 0.07 0.07 0.07 1 0.24
municipal schools to elioinate the  I                                 I
!   intermediate shift in urban sites   I
!                            I ~ ~~~~~~~ I                      I      ! I
4. Sub-total of the Municipal Netuork  I       1700 677 710 710 744 13541 10.49  0.66  0.79  0.78 0.81 1 3.55 1
!                                                                                                                .I
!S. Equipment for classrooms In        !   1.31 I  0  36  60  60  601 216 10.00 0.05 0.08 0.08 0.08 1 0.28 !
!   state schools to eliminate the     I         I                        I      I                                     I
I   Intermediate shift in urban sites   I        I                        !      I                             I       I
!                                      !         I                        !      !                             I       !
S6. Reequipment for S65 state          I   0.4 !1900 800 000 800 655 13955  0.40 0.36 0.36 0.36 0.29  1L.77!
schools in urban and rural sites    I        I                                                                    !
with an average of 7 classrooms.   I         I                        I      I                            !
I                           ~     ~ ~~~~~~I  !                  !      !                             ! 
!7. Sub-total of the State Netuork     I         1900 836 860 660 715  4 4171 !0.40  0.41  0.44 0.44 0.37 ! 2.06 !
!_ ___ __ ___ _,________                                                                                   _I
i!rcnd Total: Equip/ for  eunic.& State Priaery 9ch.11600 1513 1570 1570 1459 I772 10.89  1.09  1.22  1.22  1.18   5.61 !
Exchange rate of 07/02/92: I1$: CrS 3475.??
SOurces: SUIIM ECONOIIICA Magazine - Jun/92
Inestment Plan of the State of Caeom  - u92.
Note: costs mentioned in item 2 an 6 includes the reequlipeent fr schools to be equiped of items I and S.
(oppceeq.Mkl)



-86-
ATTACHMENT C
Page 3 Qg 9Q                                                    Annex 6
Page 9 of 15
SECOND NORTHEA8T BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TIRE SLICE COIPONENT: COSOLIDATE (CIUIL VORKS + EQUIPMENT)
STATE: CEARA                                                                                                  USs millions
!  Quantities of Classrooms      ! Total Equip/ Estimated 8ase Costs    !
CATEGORY                                                                                                         I
!  '93  '94  '95  '96  '97 !Total ! '93   '94   '9S   '96  '9,  ! Total
IA. Investment in Municipal Network                !
1I.Sub-total for the CO/  in the Municipal Network  !700  677  710  7iO  744   35*1   3.02  4.19  4.82  4.82  4.96 ! 21.81 !
12.Sub-total for Equipment in the Municipal Network' 700  677  710  710  744 ! 3541   0.49  0.68  0.78  0.78  0,81 i 3.55
!3.Total for C/k and Equipment in the Nun. Network 11400 1354 14  1420 1488 ! 7082   3.51  4.87   5.6   5.6  5.77 !25.36 !
18.Investment In State Netuork                      !
14.Sub-total for the C/U in the State Network       !900  836  360  860  71S   4171 '2.48  2.49  2.69  2.65  2.29  112.62!
!5.Sub-total for Equipment in the State Netuork    !900  836  860  860  7iS !4171  0.40  0.41  0.44  0.44  0.37    2.06
I~~                                     ~       ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i  .                 I
16.Total for C/U  and Equipment in the State Netvork!1800 1672 1720 1720 1430 1 83421 !2.88   2.9  3.13  3.13  2.66   14.68
!                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I        !    !                                 ! 
!Grand-Total for C/U & Equip. in Nun/State Network 13200 3026 3140 3140 2918 115424 !6.39  7.7  8.73  8.73  8.43 ! 40.04 !
Exchanse rate of 07/02/92: 1US: Crt 3475.77
Sources: SURA ECON0HICA   guazine - Jun/92
Investment Plan of the State of Ceara - Jun/92,
appceeq.wkl



-87-
ATTACHM     C                                                 Annex 6
Page 4 of 9                                                   Page 10 of 15
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TlhlE SLICE COMPONENT: CIUL MORKS AND EQUIPMENt
STATE: NARANNAO                                                                                                      US$ uillions
! t~~~~~~Arel 1Ulnit Cast ! !.
lof a I In USIOOO               Quentities            i      Total Estiated Base Costs !
I          CATEGORY          O         Clesss! _        . . ,  - _              - _          - !
I                                     !Roon ! Sq a 1 US,    '93   '94  '95  '96  '97 !Total! '93   '94   '9S   '96   '97  ITotal
IA. ivil Works                            I         I      I                         !
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I 
!1. Construction of now municipal    ! 8510.140 111.90 I   0  266  600  800  740  2406   0.00 3.17  7.14  9.52  8. 81 !?63!
!   schools in rural mnd urban        I     I       I      I                          I     I                               I
!   sites tc substitute temporary    I       !      I      i                                                                       I
!   classrooms                        !        !      !      !                        !        !
I                           ~~.    .      .      .                           .     .                              . 
I2. Refurbishing of state schools in I 144 10.035 ! 5.04    520  460 200    0    0 !1180 ! 2.62  2.32  1.01  0.00  0.00 15.95 I
I   urban sites (capital+interland)  !       !      !      !                           !     !                              !
!                           ~~~ ~~ ~~I  !  !     !                           !     !                               ! 
13. Refurbishing of municipal schools! 144 10.035  5.04 ! 724  748  200    0    0 !1672 13.65  3.77  1.01  0.00  0.00 18.! 3 !
I    in urban sites (cop.+interlandi  !      I      i      I                                 !                              !
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I                 1      I      I                                 II
14. Sub-total of Civil Wrks            i        I          11244 1474 1000  800  740 !5258 16.27  9.25  9.16  9.52  6.81 143.01 !
IS. School Equipment                  !      !      !      !                           !       !                             !
!I  !                                          !      !                                I     !                                  I   !
!S. School equipment for neu municipa!       I       11.67 !   0  266  600  800  740 12406 I 0.00  0.44  1.00  1.33  1.23 14.01 !
!   schools in rural mnd urban         I     I      I      I                           !     !                              !       !
I   sites to substitute teeporary    !       I      I      I                           !     !                               !      !
!   classrooms                        !      !      !      !                           !     !
!                                     !      !      !      !                           !     !                               !      I
I6. Reeguipcent of state schols in   I       I      !0.705 ! 520  460  200    0    0!1180v  0.37 0.32  0.14  0.00  0.00 10.83 1
!   urban sites (capital+interland)  I       I             I                                 i                               I      I
II                                        I     I       I                I                   I                              I       I
1!. Reequipment of municipal schools         !      !0.?05 ! 724  748  200    0    0 !1672 1 OS1 0v.53  0.14  0.00  0.00 11.18 I
!    in urban sites (cep.+interland)  I         I       I  !                           !     !                              ! 
IS. Sub-total of School Equipment    I       I      i      11244 1474 1000  800  740 !5258 ! 0.88  1.29  1.28  1.33  1.23 16.02 !
!_           ___________  _,_ _,______                                                 I                                   __________
IC. Grand Total: Civil Marks t School Equipment                                        !       ?I715 10.55 10.44 10.85 10.04 149.03 
! _ _                      _                                           _ ! ______                                     ___! 
Exchane rate of 07/02/92: IUS$- Cr1 3475.?7
Sources: SUM  ECO NOwIC    azine - Jun/92
Investment Plan of the State of Iarana  - Jun/92.
(appar92.wkl)



-88-
ATTAC1OtNT C                                                  Annex 6
Pska656 'O                                                   Page 11 of 15
SECCND ORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TIME SLICE CONPET: CIUIL VR
STATE: PERNaISco                                                                                                  USS  illions
I Aeal Unit Cost!                                  I
I of ol in USS 1000!  Qwntities of tCissroes       I   Total C/t Estimated Oase Costs
I    CATEGORY                         -C--s-!,          9      _
I                                      I Rk ! Sq a IChass! '93  '94  '95  '98  '97 TotalI  '93  '90  'S5   '$   '9   ! Totl9!
!, ___   ___ ,_,__,, ____!
IA. Civil lorks                        I        I         I                        I      !                                      !
!                                      !     I      I     I                        I      I                              !9
11. Construction of classrooms in      1 63 tO.100 16.30 1  0  102   66  66  66 1 300 1 0.00  0.64  0.42  0.42  0.42 ! 1.89 1
I   anicipi schols to eliinate the II 9                   I                        I                                     !
i lntermediate shift in urban sites  II             I     I                        !      ! 
I                                      I     t      I     I                        I      I9 
12. Refurbishinq of 2466 tho clas,roal 110 10.045 IS.00  9930 1000 1000 1000 1000  4930 ! 4.65  5.00  5.00  5.00  s.00   24.65
I   type unicipal chwols in urban    !    !         I     t                        I      I
I   and rural sites                       I 9       !     I                            I                                 !
I                                      I     I      I     !!                              I!                                     !
1 3. Sub-total of the Ntmicipal Network I           I 9     930 1102 1066 1066 1066 IS30 14.65 5.64 5.42 5.42 5.42 ! 26.549!
I                                      !     !      I     !                        !      I                              !   
!4. Reurbishing of 1119 state          9144 !0.017 12.50 !1747 1800 100 1800 1800  98947 1 4.37  4.50 4.50  4.UO  4.50 ! 22.37 !
!    hools in urban and rural sites   I    I       I     I                               I                              !
I     ith an verage of 8 claesroes.   1    I        1     I                        9      !
I                                                         I I  !  I                 !     I
15. ub-total of the State Network            I      !     91747 1800 1800 1800 1800 947 14.37  4.5  4.50  4.50 4.5Q ! 22.37
I_ 
I6rand Total: C/I for the Nunicipal ad State Primry Sch  92677 2902 2866 26 2866  14177 99.02 10.14  9.92  9.92   .2   48.9  9G
Exchwe rate of 07/02/92: 180 - Cr8 3415.77
S8ucs:     EDIOICA Nhguine - J/2
Investment Plan of the State of Pernabuco - Jo92
Note: Costs  entioned in item 2 include te  reurbishing costs fhr the shols to b exapaed of item 1.
(ppcu.ukl)



-89-
ATTACTHM   C                                                  Annex 6
PaRe 6 of 9                                                  Page 12 of 15
SECOND NORThEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TIRE SLICE CON?ONENT: CIVIL UORKS
STATE: SERGIPE                                                                                                     US  millions
!                     -                 Area! Unit  Cost I                                 I
!  of a! in USS 1000 !  Quantities of Classrooms        Total C/H Estimated Base Costs
!    CATECQ1Y                          lElass! ..           !,-…-   - -- -_ -- - 
!                                      I Room! Sq a  ClOass ! '93  '94  '95  '96  '97 !Total! '93  '94  '95  '$9   '97  ! Total !
!A. Civil Works                        !     !      !      !                         !
!                                      !     !      !      !                         !     !                              !!
!1. Construction of c,assrooms in      ! 60 10.200 112.00 !  0   37  37   37  37 !148 10.00  0.44  0.44  0.44  0.44 ! 1.78
I   municipa! schools to substitue   I       i                                       i !
!   temporary classrooms and           I     i      !      I                         i    !
!   intermediate shift.                      i !           !                         !    !                               !
!2. Refurbishing of 340 tuo classrooms! 100 !0.043 14.32 I 80  IS0  IS0  150   ISO  680 ! 0.35  0.65  0.65  0.65  0.65 ! 2.9S !
I type municipal schools In urban         i !          i  !                          !
!   and rural sites.                   !     !      !      !
13. Refurbishing of 40 municipal       1150 10.048 1U7.26    16  36  36   36   36! 160 10.12  0.26  0.26  0.26  0.26 1 1.16 i
!   schools in urban and rural sites  !      !      !      I                         !                                    *
!   with an average of 4 classrooms.  !      !      !      !                         !    !
I                                      I     t      I      I                         I     ''                                
!4. Sub-total of the Municipal Netuork!      i      i         96  223  223  223  223 !98 10.46  1.35  1.35  1.$  1.35!  5.88 !
!====,==,_                                                                ____ _!__
!S. Construction of classroomis in     I 60 10.200 112.00 !  0   40   50   50   50 1190 10.00  0.48  0.60  0.60  0.6) ! 2.28 !
state schools to substitute       I     i      i      !                         !    !                               !
!   temporary classrooms and              i !       I      !                         !
!   internediate shift.                !     !             I                              !                              !
!S. Refurbishing of 120 two classroom! 100 10.043 ! 4.32    24   S4   54  54  54 1240 ! 0.10  0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23   1 .04!
!   type tte schools in urban          I    I       I      i                         !    !'
!   and rural sites.                   !     !      t      I                         !    !
! 7. Refurbishing of 49 state schools  I150 10.04U   7.26 ! 24   44  44  44  44   200 ! 0.17  0.32  0.32  0.32  0.32 ! l.5S
in urban and rural sites uith     !     !      !      I                         !    I                               !
I   an average of 4 classroous.        I        i  !       !                         !    !
!                                      I     I      !      I                         1  I  !!                                     !
18. Sub-total of the State Network     !     !  I          ! 48  138  14  146,  146 ! 630 10.28  1.03  1.15  1.15  1.15 ! 4.77
!6rand Total: C/l for the Municipal and State Privary Sch. 1 144  381 371  371  371 11618 10.74  2.39  2.51  2.51  2.51 S 10.65 I
Exchange rate of 07/02/92: 1US$  Cr$ 3475.77                Surces: s   £CONOICAIFguine - Jun/92
Investent Plan of the State of snrgipe - Jun/92.
Note: Cosbt  entioned in items 2, 3, 6 and 7 includes the refurbishing costs for the  shools of itm  I and S.
APPSEWU.KI



-gn-
ATACHMKNT C
*pgR*'7Ldf 9    .                                             Annex 6
Page 13 o! 1S
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TINEl SLICE COMPONENT: EQUIPMENT
STATE: SERIPE                                                                                                USS millials
lUnit Coat!                              i                                   I
in    !  Quntities of Classrooms    !Total Equipment Estimated Base Costs!
CATECORY                              ! US$1000 !_, -
!per Ciass! '93  '94  '9S  '96  '97 !Total! '93  '94   '95  '96   '97  ITotal!
!8. Equipment                               I        !                         3    !                              !   -i
! 1. Equipment for classrooms in            !   1.02 !  0   37  37  37  37! 148 I 0.00 0.04  0.04  0.04 0.04 10.15 I
m municipal schools to substitute                    !                         ! 
3   temporary classrooms and                         ! 
intermediate shift.                    i         i                        !                                       I
!2. Reequipuent of 610 tao classrooms       !   0.52 ! 148 268  268 268 268 11220 1 0.08  0.14  0.14 .0.14 0.14 '0.64 !
! type municipal schools ina urban          !        !                         !    !                              !    !
and rural sites.                       !
!3. Reequipuent of 80 municipal             !   0.52 ! 32  72  72  72  72! 320 ! 0.02 0.04  0.04  0.04  0.04 !0.17 i
a   schools in urban and rural sites        !   0.2 !
v with an average of 4 classrooms.          !         i                        a    !
I                                           !         I                                                            a     a   
4. ub-total of the Mlunicipal Network     !         1180 317  377  377 377 11688 ! 0.09 0.22  0.22  0.22  0.22 10.95 !
!   ,___,,.,     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ ________ _                  ,   ______________
!5. Equipewnt for classrooms in             !   1.02 3  0   40  50  50  50! 190 ! 0.00  0.04  0.05  0.05  0.05 !0.19 
state schools to substitute                          I                        !    !                              ! 
i   temporary clasroos and                  i         i                                             I                   i
a   interiediate shift.                     !                                                                       !    I
I~~~~~                                                           ~~~~~~~ !  !  !   !           
i S. Reequip,ent of 70 two classroms        1   0.52 ! 20  30  30  30  30  140 ! 0.01  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02 10.07
type state schools in urban                i         I                        i    !      '                       !
!   and rural sites.                        I         I                        I    i                              !    !
I7. Reequipirent of 50 state schools        I   0.52 ! 24  44  44  44  44 1200 10.01  0.02  0.02 0.02  0.02 10.10 !
!   in urban and rural sites ith            !         !                                                             I    I
a n aeerage of 4 classms.                   !         !                        !                                   I    I
18. Sub-total of the State Nettork          i         1 44  114  124  124 124 1530 10.02 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.09 10.37 !
i8rand Totel:Equip/ for the Munic. & State Primary ,!.I 224 491  501 501 501 12218 10.12  0.29 0.30 0.30 0.30 11.33 i
nge rate of 07(02/92: 1US - Cr 3475.77                  ources: M   ECONMCA MWine - Jun/92
Inestsent Plan of the State of Sergip  - Jn92.
Note: Costs  ntioned In items 2, 3, 6 end 7 includs the refurbishing costs for the  schools of item  I and 5.
APSEEQ.IKI



-91-                                          .                  ..
ATTACHMENT C                                               Amnex 6'6
P^ge~~~~~~~Pg 14 of                                            15 6
SECOND NORTHST BASIC EUCATIOI PROJECT
TINE SLICE CONPONENT: CONSOLIDATE (CIVIL WORKS t EQUIPMENT)
STWTE: SER6IPE                                                                                          USB millions
!  Quantities of Classrooss    iTotal Equip/ Estimated Base Costs   i
! CATEGORY                                         - --- - ___- ------                                         -    !
*                                                ! '93  '94  '95  '96  '971 Totul ! '93  '94  '95  '96  '97   Total I
IA. Investhent in llunicipel Netvork             !                        !                      
!1.Sub-totbl for the C/U in the MuniciFal Network  1 96 223 223 223 223 ! 988 ! 0.46  1.35  1.35  1.35  1.35 !5.89 
12.Sub-total for Equipsent in the Municipal Network! 10 37? 377 37? 377  1688 !0.09 0.22 0.22 0.22  0.22 ! 0.95 
!                                                !                        I      !                             !      !
Q3.Total for C/9 and Equipment in the Nun. Netuork i 276 600 600 600 600 ! 2676 ! 0.55  1.57 1.57  I.S?  1.5? ! 6.84 !
!B.Investeent in State Network                   i                        I
14.Sub-total for the C/U in the State Netvork    ! 48 138 148 148 148 ! 630  0.28 1.03 1.15  1.15  1.15   4 4.77 !
!5.Sub-total for Equipment in the State Netvork      44 114 124  124 124 i  80S! 0.02 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.09 i 0.37
16.Totel for C/ and Equipment in the State Network! 92 252 272 272 m   !1160   0.3  1.11  1.24  1.24  1.24 ! 5.14
!                                  _______ ________           _________
!                                                I                        !      !                             !   
1Crand-Total for C/0 I Equip. in Nun/State Network ! 368 852 872 872 872 ! 9336 ! 0.85 2.68  2.81  2.81  2.81 ! 11.98 I
Exchoane rate of 07/02/92: 1US$: Cr5 3475.77
Sourcs: 8UA ECNICA Nazine - wu92
Investment Plan of the State of Ceara - Jun/92.
APPSESU.NI1 



-92-
IATCNEANT- C                                                  Anneax 6
Page 15 of 15
SECND NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TINE SLICE CO1PO;;ZNT: SUIIARY OF CIVIL LORXS, EQUIPNENT AND IIRINTENRACE
StoES: CEAIA -  RRANAD - PERNANDUCO - SERGIPE
!8STRTES          I '93   1  '94   ! '95       '96 i!  '97   1LOCAL  !FOREIGN!tOTRL  !
!A. ClvilI iorms                        I        I        I        I        I        I       ! 
!                      !~ ~         ~~ ~~ I  !    I        I        I        1        I        I
11. Ceare                      I .50 I  6.69 !  7.50 !  7.S0 I  7.2  ! 34.44 1  0.00    34.44 !
12. Maranhao                   !  6.2? !  9.25 !  9.16 !  9.52 !  8.81 ! 43.01 1   0.00 1  43.01 !
13. Pernambuco                 I  9.02 I 10.14 !  9.92 !  9.92 1  9.92 1 48.90 !  0.00 I 48.90 1
14. Sergipe                    I  0.74 !   2.39!  2.51 !  2.51 1  2.51 1  10.65 1   0.00!  10.65 !
15. Sub-total of Civil ilorbs  1 21.53 I 28.47 ! 29.09 ! 29.4S I 28.4  ! 137.00 I  0.00 1137.00 !
18. Equipment                  !                 I        !        !        I        I        !
I                              I        I        !       !         I        !        !        I        !
16. Ceara                      I  0.89!   1.091   1.22 !   1.22 !   1.18 !   3.93 I  1.68!   5.61 !
!7.  hraenhao                  I  0.88 I  1.29 !   1.28 !   1.33 !   1.23 !  4.21 !   1.81!   6.02 I
18. Pernanbuco                 I  0.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 I  0.00 !   0.00!   0.00 !
19. Sergipe                    !  0.12 1  0.29 !   0.30 !  0.30 !  0.30 !  0.93 !   0.40!   1.33 !
!                              !        !        !        !        !        !        !        !        I
110. Sb-total of Equipeent    I  1.88 1  2.67 I  2.80 I  2.85 I  2.71 !  9.07 I  3.89 I 12.96 I
IC. Maintenance of Civil borksl         I        I        I        !        !        !        !        !
I   and Equipsent              I        I        I        I        I        !        I        !
l                              !        !        I        I        !        1        I        !        !
Ill. Ceara                     I  0.15 1   0.181   0.20 1  0.20 I  0.191   0.91 1   0.00!   0.91 1
112. Nhrenhao                  I  0.16 1  0.24 1  0.23 I  0.24 I  0.23 1  1.10 I  0.00 I  1.10 i
113. P     s rnbuco            I  0.18 !   0.20 I  0.20!o  0.20 !   0.20 1  0.98!   0.00 10.98 1
114. Sergipe                   I  0.02 1  0.06!   0.06 i  0.06 I  0.06 I  0.27    0.U0!   0.27!
I!I                                     I        I        I        I        I        I        I,       I
!15. Sub-total of laidntenance  I  0.51 I  0.69 1  0.69 1   0.70 1  0.68 1  3.26 I  0.001   3.26 1
I   for CivilbIrks             !        I        !        I        I        I        I        I        I
I!__ _ _!__________
116. Grano  Total              1 23.93 I 31.82 1  32.581  33.00 I 31.88 1 149.33 1   3.898  153.22!
I                                                         _____
Exchange rate of 07/02/92: WSt: Cr$ 3475.77
Sources: SM  ECONONICA ilagaine - Jun/92
Investment Plan of the States - JWu92
NPNM.VSl



-93-
Annex 7
Page I of 8
DETAILED DESCRIEION OF NATIONAL COMPONENT AND PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
Ntional Component - Total Costs US$11.64 million
1.           The objective of the project's natianal gmnn is to help foster a new federal role
in basic education by supporting a program aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of
Education (MEC), through SEF and its related entities (namely. CPS, FNDE, INEP, and FAE), to
carry out key oversight and support functions in basic education, paiticularly (i) systematic evaluation
of school systems, including standardized testing of student achievement; (i) systematic policy
analysis, including dissemination of effective educational approaches, technologies, and innovations;
(iii) management of educational information and statistics; (iv) monitoring and supervision of
federally-funded proJects and programs, including technical assistance to state education secretariats;
and (v) reform of the national textbook and school lunch programs, together with implementation of a
new system for book provision to be piloted in the Northeast states covered by the project. The Bank
will monitor progress towards the achievement of these broad objectives yearly through the set of
perorn'3nce indicators described in Annex A.
2.           The national component w.ll consist of four sub-components: (A) educational
evaluation, (B) policy analysis, (C) educatilun management, and (D)) reform of the textbook and school
lunch programs. These sub-components will support the Ministry's human and institutional
development by financing studies, technical assistance and other consultant services, equipment
(mostly micro-computers and related hardware as well as software), dissemination activities, project
supervision, and incremental operating costs (excluding staff salaries).
(A)   Education Evaluation (US$ 5.66 million)
3.           The objective of this sub-component is to build up the national capacity for crying
out systematic evaluations of student achievement, school effectiveness and system productivity;
analyzing, interpreting and disseminating findings; and translating the resulting knowledge into
policies, strategies and actions aimed at improving public basic education in Brazil. Towards this
end, the project will support: (1) human resources development; (ii) institutional development of
selected agencies, and (iii) strengtening of the national stdent assessment system (SAEB). TMe
program of human resource development will operate through a special program of grants to be
administered by CAPES, according to yearly operational plans to be formulated by CAPES and
submitted to SEF for approval. The program of institutional development will be administed by
SEF, and INEP will be in charge of the support to SAEB.
4.           To support human reu   dg5tdgV   in education measurement, assessment and
testing, the project will finance scholarships and fellowships for higher-level training in overseas and
national research institutes, universities, and state-of-the-art testing centers. Grants fr formal
aduate studies as well as no--deg=  gorss will be provided on a competitive basis to talented
Brazilians of various academic backgrounds interested in a career in education evaluation in Brazil,



-94-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 8
regardless of their pre-graduate studies employment status. Eligible applicants will include staff
(including teachers) in universities, research institutes, and government agencies responsible for
education. The operational plan for this component will establish the criteria for tho competitive
selection of the applicants.
5.           The project will support institutional development through a program of grants aimed
at establishing regional centers that specialize in the technical requirements of education evaluation.
These centers would have the capacity to develop as well as absorb and adapt know how and
technology applied to measurement, assessment and testing in education. To support the development
of an Qperational research and development capacity in educational evaluation, financing will be
available for program development, research, staff exchanges, organization of and attendance at
seminars and workshops, purchase of equipment (including computers and software) and library
materials, publication of bulletins and periodicals, hiring of consultant services to carry out specific
tasks or studies, internships, and study tours. To foster technological transfers, the projfct will
finance technical cooperation between international and national academic and non-academic
institutions.
6.           Grants will be awarded biannually by CAPES on a competitive basis to selected public
and private domestic institutions that respond to a public call for proposals by submitting multi-year
institutional development plans. The selection will be carried out by a high-level advisory committee
formed by representatives of SEF, INEP and CAPES; two representatives from the Brazilian scientific
community; and one international expert in education evaluation. The selected institutions will be
expected to participate actively in the improvement and consolidation of SAEB by (i) cooperating in
research and development of tests, other survey instruments and computational resources, (ii) helping
strengthen SAEB management; (iii) supporting SAEB data analysis; and (iv) suggesting methods for
dissemination of SAEB findings and results.
7.           While the project pursues its broader objective of developing human and institutional
capacity in measurement, assessment and testing in education, it will also promote the improvement
and consolidation of a recendy developed national system for evaluating basic education, namely the
Sistema de Avaliacao da Educacao Basica (SAEB), which utilzes sample-based methodology to
evaluate inputs, processes and outcomes of school systems. The project will support the systematic
administration of SAEB tests and questionnaires to students, teachers and administrators in public
school systems in all states of Brazil. In addition to achievement testing, SAEB will gather data on
'chool inputs, costs and management. The resulting database would allow for comparisons of stdent
achievement by geographical unit and type of school, as well as by quantity and quality of school
inputs and processes.
8.           The project will finance data collection, analysis, reporting and feedback to school
systems. Pre- and post-project comparisons would be made to assess the impact of the project. Also,
the project will provide equipment, mostly computers and related hardware and software, to improve
SAEB's routines for collecting and processing data, manipulating files and data banks, producing
reports, and providing feedback to school systems. Consultant servces will also be hired t-. insiA1l
and maintain software packages, as well as to develop, install, test and maiain application progrums
and integrated computerized systems. The project will also finance technical training for the team
responsible fbr operating SAEB.



-95-
An=B 7
Page 3 of 8
9.           Local and foreign consultants will be contracted on short as well as long term bases to
carry out the research and development required to refine the SAEB methodology, improve and
validate instruments, and advise on technical matters of test application, such as sample size and
definition, logistics, and security requirements. The project will support the development and
refinement of criterion-referenced tests and their administration to a sample of students selected from
the population of all second, fifth, and eight graders in federal, state, and municipal schools. Samples
would be designed to cover the different types of school and educational modalities.
10.          In principle, SAEB will be executed by INEP, with input from SEF, CPS and state
education secretariats, according to a detailed five-year research, development and operation plan
acceptable to the Bank. The plan will, inter alia, (i) ensure that the testing and other data gathering
instruments will be c3rried out according to sound scientific methodology, (ii) list interim and final
outcomes, (iii) spell out the implementation schedule, and Civ) provide profiles of key staff. To verify
that INEP develops the proper institutional setting for SAEB, SEF will appoint and maintain a high-
level technical comnrittee formed by two MEC representatives, two international experts in education
assessment, and two renowned Brazilian educators, all with qualifications and experience acceptable
t) the Bank. The task of this high-level technical committee is to carry out periodic assessments and
technical reviews of SAEB procedures, methods, and outcomes in order to produce technical
recommendations for its development, including, inter alia, the adequacy of its (i) institutional
placement, (ii) staffing profile, (iv) operational processes and procedures, (vi) methodology, and (v)
instruments. On the basis of these recommendations, SEF may select a new institution to house
SAEB, acceptable to the Bank.
11.          Although most of the work will be contracted out to regional centers receiving
institutional development support, INEP will establish a full time in-house team formed by regular
staff as well as short- and long-term consultants. Three rounds of SAEB administration are expected
to be carried out during project execution: the first one in 1993, using methodology and instruments
already available; of the other two, one in 1995 and another in 1997, using methodology and
instruments accepted by the technical committee. Seminars and debate forums for different
constituencies and interest groups will be organized to disseminate the findings of SAEB, promote its
legitimacy as a public policy instrument, and foster the creation of an 'evaluation culture" within the
education community of Brazil.
(B)   Policy Analysis (US$1.63 million)
12.          The objective of this sub-component is to help SEF and its related agencies develop
the institutional capacity for systematic policy formulation, analysis and review. The project will
finance applied research on basic education. Researchers at universities and other research centers
will be eligible for this funding, which will support pre-investment and evaluation studies, operational
research, and policy papers. The project will also finance dissemination of findings and
recommendations to practitioners as well as policy makers, through activities such as publications,
workshops, seminars and conferences. At a minimum, the project will finance five conferences (one
a year), where the studies executed that year will be presented and commented on, and abstracts will
be published in annals, prefaced by executive summaries written by the high-level advisory
committee.



-96-
Annx 72
Page 4 of 8
13.          Annual priorities for funding will be determined by SEF based on the
recommendations of a high-level advisory committee appointed and maintained by SEF. This
committee will include three government representatives (probably from SEF, INEP and CPS), one
international expert in education research, and two renowned Brazilian educators, all with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. This committee wiil meet periodically to (i)
define 3nnual analytic agendas and issue calls for proposals (once a year, probably in March, to
define the agenda for the following year), (i) review and select study proposals, and, upon
completion of the studies, (iii) make comments on the executive reports to be prepared by SEF in
order to provide MEC authorities with specific recommendations about how study findings can be
integrated into policy making. In addition to the studies themselves, the project will finance travel
expenses and honoraria for the committee members and logistical support for its meetings.
14.          The project will also support the establishment of a system for cataloging, evaluating
and disseminating innovations and standards in basic education. Consultant services for setting up
and systematically updating data bases, as well as for carrying out evaluation studies and
dissemination activities will be financed by the project. Among other things, the project will
commission a survey to compare desired and actual patterns of utilization of resources (financial,
human, and physical) in public and private school systems. The objective would be to establish and
validate minimum standards for public school systems in terms of the quantity as well as the quality
of inputs, processes, and outcomes. Once operational, this data bank could provide services and
information to states and municipalities interested in adopting innovative approaches aimed at
improving the quality of basic schooling.
(C)   Edutlon Planning and MangMnt (US$3.4 million)
15.          The objective of this sub-component is to help SEF and its related agencies develop
the institutional capacity for systematic planning and management through a program of technical
assistance, training and purchase of equipment. The subcomponent will support four lines of action;
(i) management review; (ii) data management; (iii) staff training; and (iv) the project support units
(UJNESP and UESCN). The project will finance consultant services to carry out management reviews
aimed at assessing the adequacy of the processes, procedures and tools employed by SEF staff and
managers in their routine and strategic activities and, as a consequence, to develop integrated 1a
management systems required for proper implementation of the recommendations made by the
reviews. The project will finance consulting service., revision of the content of current administrative
records to include all necessary data and exclude irrelevant information, review of methods and
instrumerts employed for data collection and processing, and manipulation of fles and databases, data
collection, improvements in the periodicity, coverage, and quality of reports and publications, reviews
of hardware and software specifications, networking options, and operational requirements, and
purchase of equipment, mostly microcomputers and related hardware to house the integrated data
management systems.
16.          Training grtunitles for staff, The objective of this subcomponen is to provide
high- and middle-level managers with the concepts, skills and tools appropriate for practicing the
knowledge-based decision making required for improving the quality and efficiency of the services
provided by SEP to its constituencies. The project will provide the staff of SEF and its related
entities with three types of professional growth opporunities: (i) higher-level nondegree courses in
systems aysis, files management, information systems, policy analysis, institional research and



-97-
Page 5 of 8
development, project analysis, educational finances, project management, institutional culture,
textbook publication and provision, teacher training, information-based decision making, and so forth;
(ii) hands-on experience through internships, workshops and study tours to familiarize staff with
Innovations, best practicee and tecno4ogicai advances in effective school systems throughout the
world that are relevant to the Brazilian context; and (iii) upgrading opporunities through attendan  at
national and intenaional seminars and conferences. These experiences will be offered tD talented
and motivated staff in various educational branches of MEC (namely SEF, CPS, INEP, and FNDE)
and in the education secretariats of the states covered by the project.
17.          As part of this subcomponent, SEF will maintain a unit mdade E
Sutoe Cmponente Nacional, or UESCN) to coordinate all activides under the national component,
as we!l as the national project support unit fniade Nacsonal EWM da dn S u   or
UNESP), which will liaise with all participating agencies, including state and municipal education
secretariats, the UESCN, and other federal government agencies (such as DTN, SEAIN, and the
Central Bank). The principal functions of the UESCN and UNESP are to assure that project
components are executed according to the agreed-upon terms and timetable. Similar to the project
unit in the state education secretariats, these units will maintain computerzed system acceptable to
the Bank for monitoring procurement, disbursements, and project activities. This MIS system will be
modeled after the one curently being used in the Second Northeast Basic Health Project.
18.          UNESP and UESCN wil receive the human, financial and materia resources required
for efficient and timely programming, accounting and monhoring of project components. The project
will finance (i) development, implementation and operation of a computerized accounting and
monitoring system for the project; (i) equipment, consultant services, systems development and
oweration costs; (idi) technical assistance to help states implement their investment and management
reform plans in all areas covered by the project, such as teacher training, educational planning and
management, teaching maeials, financi management, facilities planning and management, and
computerized information systms; (iv) supervisory field work to assure timely execution of the
project, including periodic trips to the states to inspect public works, distrbution of textbooks and
other diactc matials to public schools, and usage of these materials by the teachers, as well as to
monitor the adherence of each stae to its management efficiency targets; and (v) incremental
operational costs, Including communications, publications, travel expenses and honoraria for advisory
committee members and others, supplies, logistical support for meetngs, through an admin e
fumd. In addition, workshops will be organized to train staff assigned to project support units In state
education secretriats and SEF in subjects relevant to project implementaion: (a) planning and
programming techniques and tools; (b) bidding and other procurement methods; (c) accounting
procedures and tools; (d) public works supervision; (e) disbursement practices and requirements; and
(f) project management.
(D)   Reform of the Textbook and &Shool Lunch Prgms (US$0.95 million)
19.          The project will finance a major study of alternative financing mechanisms for the
nadonal textbook program and a study of the cost-effectiveness of the centralized school lunch
program. These studies will, imk lia, identify the major current problems with these progras and
propose solutions, and analyze the costs, benefits, and operational feasibility of each alternative.



-98-
Annex 
Page 6 of 8
20.          This subcomponent also includes fi4ancing for the program of technical assice
(already underway) to imv   textbook provision in the Northeast states selected for the NE II and
m projects. This program alms at guaraeeing that all first through fourth grade students in the state
and municipal systems are provided with a minimum package of books. Tle project will finance O)
technical assistmnce for supporting development, implementation and operation of the new system for
book provision, including the design and implemention of monitoring and evauation systems; (ii)
specialized training in book specificadon, procurement, printing, production, quality contol and
distribution, for the staff of the PNLD and the state educaion secretariats; and (lii) consultant
services, computer hardware and roftware to support the development of a computeized
programming and monitoring system for the PNLD.
21.          Responsibility for executing this national component will be vested in the UESCN,
which will liaise with CAPES, INEP, CPS, FAE, and FNDE to make all the necessary institutional
arrangements to assure that the planned activities are executed according to the agreed-upon terms and
timetable.
22.          As a condidon of Board gmentaion MEC presented a draft operati  plan,
acceptable to the Bank, which included initial timetables and cost estimates for activities to be carried
out during the first year of project implementation, as well as a list of activities planned for
subsequent years.



-99-
Annex 7
Page 7 of 8
Draft as Oct 6, 1992                                                                                    Annex A
N1E-, NATIONAL COMPONNIT
Prfirmanc Indicators Fom (to be filled every yea in Dcmer by UNSP)
Subo1.  Anleat1 mto Evoiyasf o                                             1993    1994 n    1995  | 199       1997
RE.:  IuAdniraeou  of SAEB
I1.     HLTC   po tA          ;by hEC_
2.      HLTC comple ed b swua miwof LAEB                                              B        =
According tothe HLTC  epwtn,SAEB's...............      
3.      ... least 10  ahoahi pfasor n  are
4.      ... stafs  gprtofilerisesasnte ipinc  E awarded
S.         p. leasts and procefel s   ato   hort courses in NE provided
6.      Dretbory     adyuteisad  ains ie pubishedy
7.      ... prout ow 104011  an....... _ _ __ _ __
S.       uAd yr earch e     a                                                                  =ur=
9.        m pyealcresaoimmedatio_ was Issued
10.     Studisapo diyang nat e aummary _s pubnished
RE.:   Innovationsand StadadsDaaan
11.     At lad 3 bh-snul           Sc amb/ ini 
2.      AtCpted   d aology uankr ontIae igt ediointnald
R2.:   aHumnd   esource ue       sepmts
13.     At least 10 aciovnatpsfoc arS ti Ey catal ddged
14.     A t         b    u5 0ns o  v 5   XltaWoIn Eawto
MS      At bas 3 flaowshp for fi  cm    in EE provide
16.     Dk;try of gduzas   dtiam bish _AU
_~~                                                  ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _-_-_ -----
Sucnoe    Policy Analysis                                                  193       9  1994  is l 996    1997
RE.:    Fund for Re                                ..     .
17.   AG appaWmdby NBC
19.     AG pclicy wAmw        _to  was b
20.     Stdws-olcyms msi kiA         u mmt a p=                                                =        =        =
RE.:  FjI p bow StmandarS Do Ba..  .
21.      Cop =n  aabn     prtoa
22.      Stanars   esoutcoiue aschool sm          npbie
23.     Atl ets4six innovations am MY                                          _          1        1        l_ 



Annex 7
-100-                                               Page 8 of 8
26.      Lost years educationa statistis publidhed by Jun. of dhis yos
27.      At eAs 2 sdff avauad ealis comm  of 40 bo_ or mm
23.      At leas on. overma study tut for IS gtaff was organized
RE.:    Nationl prec apps Oani (N
29.      Co.up    zed ssm   .peratio
30.      Qusatory supervison posts oabwMlud to th e Dnt
31.      At lst bad6  rdawwy spw4sim rp pe proje sbt wet mo
32.      At lest 2  uso*nday of Tp  pct 0 sta *we prvdo
_E.:    Subcompon      Rsfoxm of Ixth       so  lan pogxaM
33.:    Compreknal p et etviwof FAE was coMpled
34.      MC lpuis lpkmoi  raft                 __m b  by  _m a   _v
3S.      lhI yaes bookb s       Talve   ag shoo by Uac of Nt ye
ACAL SCORN
MmREUVAL SCORE 
mmm_mmu___   2628,S    3-
MAXD" PBCs   SC=                       I               33     33 IsN
VALiD COD8S ARE AS FOLOWS:
0       if answe is NO 0..,  o or paIl onllano e)
I   if answer   YES (I.e., toeal o lfoan)
LEGND:
AG       Ana Anayti  Aend
ES       Eductin EvalutIon
GS       Gaduate Stds
HLTC      igh-Lvl Techil Commie
TA       Technid  Asitm
sL.aIA se



-101- ~  ~       ~       ~      An 
Pago I of 16
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR STATE PROJECT CO:MNEN:
EDUCATION MANAGEMNT, TEACE                             G, EDUCATIONAL
ATERIAUW
1.           Two types of performance indicators will be used to monitor the imple n of
the education management component, teacher training component, and the educational mateas
component in each state. These are:
*     key accomplishment indicators; and
*     outcome indicators.
(A)           ttldudion
2.           The first type of indicator is the key accom#pLdent diator. Ihis type of Iicator
will be used to monitor critical acomplients of each of the major components of the project,
permitting the Bank, MEC, and the stes to establish broad targets for project Implemenaion. lh
key accomplshment Indicators to be used, their baseline values, and the annual target values for these
indicators were agreed at negotiations. The second type of indicator will measure the spedfic
outcomes of each of these three components. These outcome indicators, which corepond to the
atiWvities' specified under each subcomponent, will be specified in the operational plans for the three
compozents of each state.
(B)          KU AccompslauneZt formanoe Indicato
3.           ITe four groups of "key accomplishment" indicators preFented below have ben
selected to represent milestones in the 'critical path' for successful project imple ion. They
concern:
(a)   S,deflow in stae and municipal primaty achoo1 systems.
(b)    Project  IplmentAton  uckddLs (PICs) for critical actions under the the
state components-education mnagement, teacher training, and didactic
materials.
(c)    Anna school-evel btfonaon database reports.
(d)   An4uolproject goods and serces delivery report and d ncy analysis.
(a)    Student Flow (Reference: Table Al1-a, atced). The overall goal for
Second Northeast Basic Education Project (NEBE 11) is to 'Wincree student
leaning, reduce reetition and dropout, and incre g aduation rates in the
four states.' The first key accomplishment performance indicator Is de
to monitor progress on this overall goal. The emphasis here will be on
repeMtion, drpout, and graduaton rates because, unfortunately, direct
indicators of student leaning, by stae and sector witin state, may not be
available untl after the first few years of project impl ion. Wi
baseline measures, it is difficult to se perf ance  rgets. Consequenty, ho



-ln2-
Anx 8
Page 2 of 16
first set of key accomplishment performance indicators measures the flow of
primary school pupils across the grades within the state schools and also
within municipal schools. The actual indicators measure the proportion of
students bunched up in first grade, and the proportion of primary pupils who
graduate each year from the primary education system. Tbe baseline meaure
is taken from CPS reports for 1989. Annual targets are estimated as the
minimal significant improvements on these measures, based on a 10% annual
reduction in the repetition rate, and a 5% reduction in the dropout rate.
These indicators and targets are presented in Table A10-a. The data for this
indicator should be derived from MEC statistics, and the UNESP will be
responsible for calculating these indicators and completing Table A10-a.
(b)    Poect Imlementatio CheNists for the Education Management Component
(Reference: Tables A10-bl to A10-b5, attached). These project
implementation checklists (PICs) will serve as the primary means of tracking
the overall execution of the education management component. Each of the
first four checklists (PIC-1 through PIC-4) is designed to be completed
annually by each state's Project Support Unit (UEESP). The =oect leder in
each state is to be hgld-accountable for aring out this   . PIC-S
evaluated the UEESP itself, and the UNESP project leader is responsible for
completing this checklist on the operational effectiveness and efficiency of the
UEESP. The objective of these checklists is to assure that key
accomplishments and actions of the component are monitored. Each item on a
checklist may need additional explanation, in particular, to specify precisely
what evidence will be required to score that item. The UEESP is responsible
for preparing this additional documentation, as necessary. Each item has a
potential score, and the UEESP can give marks up to and including the target
score, depending on the evidence available. In addition to being accountable
for the completion of the annual checklist on time, the project leader is also
accountable for the particular marks given each item on the checlist. The
bottom row on each of these checklists summarizes the expected
implementation for the project for each year of project execution.
(c)    Annual school-level information database reports (Reference: Table AIO-c,
PIC-6, attached). One of the main objectives of the state program of the
NEBE II project is to improve management efficiency in each state's
education system through improvements in the use of information, particularly
on schools-the primary instrument for delivering educational services.
Specifically, planners and adminisrrs need up-to-date and accurate
information on staff and material resources available in each school, both in
the municipal and state systems. The collection and tabulation of school-level
inormation from each school will serve this purpose.' Simultaneously, the
school report will allow project monitors in the UEESP to track the receipt of
Tables AIO-c.I through A1O-c.4 represent instruments that can be used to collect this
school level informaton.



-103-
Page 3 of 16
the various goods and services supported by the project.2 'he peformance
indicator for this activity is the annual completion of survey forms, one for
the municipal sector, and one for the state sector, summarizing the
information from the school-level information database (SLID). To ensure the
integrity of these data, these two summary forms will be backed-up by one
summary form for each municipality. Table A10-c provides the format for
which these data should be reported, overall, by sector, and by municipality.
These municipal summary sheets will in turn be supported by computr
printouts from the database reporting the same information by school. The
data will include a count of the number of classrooms the school conts, the
total number of staff employed at the school, the number of staff directly
engaged in classroom teaching, the number of teachers who received iservice
training the previous year, the number of school directors and assistant
directors who received training the previous year, the number of Portuguese
textbooks and the number of mathematics textbooks available and the number
received last year for first, for second, for third, and for fourth grade
children, the number of reading books previously in stock and the number the
school received last year, and the number of didactic material kits in stock and
the number the school received last year. In addition to this database, the
UEESP will submit a summary of this database. Table A10-c is the
performance indicator instrument that this information will be provided.
(d)    Annual repot on delivery of proect goods and services (Refrence: Table
A!0-d, PIC-7, attached). These reports are designed to correspond to the
school-level information sheets. In this case, however, the data themselves
will be supplied by UEESP's Project Procurement and Delivery Orders
Database, in contrast to the previous case in which the reports will be built up
from the school-level information database. Table A1O-d provides the fomat
for which these data should be reported, overall, by sector, and by
municipality. UEESP will also provide, along with these summary sheets, a
discrepancy analysis, (based partially on the third column of this table)
comparing the receipt of goods and services by the schools with the delivery
orders themselves.
4.           Outcome Indicators (Reforence Table A 10-). The purpose of outcome indIcators is
to monitor the achievement of the activities specified under each subcomponent in (a) the education
management component, (b) the teacher training component, and (c) the education materias
component. Underlying these indicators is the structure of the project design itself, which will be
detailed in the operational plans for these components, prepared by each state and fialized prior to
project disbursement for that state. Each component has a specific objective or set of objectives.
Under each component, subcomponents were selected to achieve that purpose. These subcopones
may differ fom one another in terms of their focus, orientation, and structre. Nonetheless, taken
2/           The subsequent indicator (reference: Table A10-d) tracks this same information from
the site of distribution, and esmtes a discrepancy analysis.



-104-
Amex 8
Page 4 of 16
together, they constitute the necessary and sufficient conditions to achieve the components purpose.
Component activities are the building blocks of the subcomponents. It is the activities that the project
team actually implement. The component "teacher trainingS for example, whose purpose Is described
in the SAR, is composed of three, separate subcomponents: short-term teacher training; leadership
training; and school-based training. Each of these subcomponents is implemented thorugh discrete
*activities." Under the third subcomponent, "school-based training" activities might include
osensitizing the school team to the high rates of repetition;" or "training school personnel to use
teamwork." Activities are accomplished through the procurement and application of any of four types
of inputs (items to be financed): training, technical assistance, materials and equipment, and
dissemination of information. ITis design structure is depicted in Figure A-i.
5.           Output indicators are definitionally associated with level # (3), the discrete activities to
be carried out under each subcomponent. For example, under short-term teacher training, key
accomplishment indicators would include, Inter alia, the number of training curriculum guides
produced, the number of trainers trained for each type of training program, the number of teachers or
other staff trained in each type of program, the number of teachers or other staff passing an objective
tet measuring their acquisition of the knowledge and skills taught during the training program, etc.
The rationale for output indicators is that, as a first step, we need mechanisms to assure that each
acdvity identified under the component is accomplished as planned. Output indicators, however, are
not designed to ascetain whether the objective of the component or the subcomponent is achieved.
To accomplish this, we will employ system indicators to complement the output indicators.



-105-
Page S of 16
(2                              luo)e 
F3igure A-1



-106-                                                      Annex 8
Page '6 of 16
NEBE-1I, OVERALL PROJECT GOAL: STUDENT FLOW
Targets for Student Fow
(to beompltd by Mb )
taea      Ceara_                Mra __            Peuaabscos_          Segpe
__ __ExZpd Ta/rAetud Val   %)
wmred In M   ay of  _btquen year)
Datein                                              T-
uibutdon of Student Aero. Grade Lada        (Year)  1 991          1992       1993       1994        99S       1996      1997
ilulgmdi 14 pupDs enULd in grade I   30.5(1999)
|Stateg  14 pupib eoed in gade I         44.9(19S9)
idpd___ade 1-_ pup___ e___ in g_de I      139.3(19&9)     :          :
SNt grad 1-8 pupils e ed hin gde I (5)?        18.6(19t9)
Munldpal grad 14 pupls oompleta  de 4(%l?  6.1(19t8)                              _
______    F_ .~                                                                                              _
e gad. 1.4 pupils oompletlng grde 4 (%)?   11.9(19t8)                                                              ,
8gdc l-S pupib compleafg grade 8 .    1t g2(19ad  | .   z                                       z             I 
Stat d 18 pupi compledag gradet (?        3.8(19tt)
j  IIsT-e-- rwolled in g-d. 1
"Clobpu studeb enrolld in  grde I 2
tlsutu aludea carolled In grade 2
mun deipa sd  enroled in grade) 
Westudent enroled in grade)
icpa ab   erolued in grade 3
-:sWtdents enrlmled  in grad    4
aulpel dltsenrolld igde 4
at studens enoUed in gad. 5
unicpaludes eolled in gade| 6
ste udent enrolUed in grad. 6
Iunlc sudent enrolled in grade ?
aes dn  erl  in grade.?
lEunicipal studes enroue in gMdin   t 
tstudents enrolled in grad 8                                             saw



-10)7-
Annex a
Page 7 of 16
NEBE-I STATE PROGRAM-KEY ACCO_WLISIIM  INDICATORS
Prject Implementation Checliast: PIC-1
(Agaz RsponI le fo MUotorln  UEW
a    Ceam_                          a             Peamb_    Salp-
ubCoinpouenk        EduationaMlana  mInComplnenn
Expeded Targ  Score/Actual Scoae
.smred in May of  bsequea  yar)
,    2,, =modi nO)
Categmy    huscawr                                       ~~~~~~~~Baselne   199       99    J1994J95119    1
c          undamn X qualit "My cho s*  completed anedudatd annually.         0        Of      0        21      21      2/     2/
dy of recommended chareceas nd cob of a fundamntala
uzinium qaly  shoo for ste and muntcip       am  covcdng
houn . stafin nonm  educatonal and ote mril
etc. BDel hinaetctrature oriteria wil be bvatc sepaately.
an            Speciic aini    ge  (in     g staff amed to btan  prog-)           0    O           2       2t      21      2/      2/
for aet year idetifc d.
.TanigWegetfor hdepreviousyeaa-hieved.                              0        01      2/       V      V       V       2/
pechnal.    Tame   of tceaco CMOR for techial assisan  for th nxt ye             0        2/      V       V               2V      2/
.j_  de.                                                                                                                       2/_
Objcctiveslproducteof TA, 1dented inTOR fom peviou year            0     | 0/           2/   2V              2      2/
fAnniual port c tmiad to UNSP and Bank awmdzc             in        0        0/      2/      2V       2/     21      2/
Pxduce   ucaonal and fnancia planning as a reut of refon  I.
i Annual review of prwioua yea?. system couditlom and performance   0        01 O       f            2V       2/     2/
lied    deliveredtosecoetaofeducatlen.
. A_J forcast of next yearseromn it    and m g    NW cal systm      0        0v      0f      2/      2       21      21
lne d submi    to sertay ofeducatio
AnnD  producio of 'sme  vicebudge (t  projece od e of              0        0/       0/      2/      21      V       2/
he sme c    eef  vic      tyeaw as bbeing prvidedthe
year. ccounfor          o enohe. say angs for eff. pic
eea:.).
.Ama lpductopof pla to upgrWeaub.¶uHW aby ob to                     0        0/       0/      0/      2V      2       2
"q a    adcoob (spcying which sacbools wM be uaded,
t wl   be upgrde. and th cs of dte   uon). and
Anulproduction of reportof school irvelmnea plaing. conducted  0        0/       0/      2/      2/      2/     21
Aualprducinof ma              pla. for achoola. delc. and          0        C/      21       2/     V       V       V
, nd     accompu                                                  4 ean/ 2k 2l                    24f yew2.
ru ds(ta                                                    O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4/  12V        2W      24U



-108-
Page 8 of 16
TablAIO-b
NEBE-H STATE PROGRAM-KY ACCOWLJSHWET DICATORS
Pa"ect Im Wlmnalon0wb*c sfl  PIC-2
(Ag-l Raspoaohie hr Maonhoiog UN
m                                                           -
Zd-W- M-ar-ed C-pCsW
Hamm RR_m W=%qmsA
*OPamdanalutmtsy fa link pmerame databas with payrol dmAo&ue  0        Q/      2/
*WvV yOf Perameproti UoS and omp.maaby Usk (job.  W).         0                    ./ 0/  2/
Tminin    psin triigtM  u(ibangae) for     next ear luetifed.       0       2/      2/      I/     2/      2/     2
obul .Tomn of refaere   CrOP) for tecbnicslasslatns fr amx yesw     0        2/     2/      2/     2/      2/     2/
I
*Objeceivlvsprodusmsof TA. U=W nlfe   TO~R foma previou yewr   0       0/      2/     2/      2      2/      2/
*Anmml spo MtuMbed to UN8l   andBk ummadzlnoha" npl            0       0/      2/     2f      2/     2/     2/
*Data foam  sad computsr bm dsr heeds d to inhdud. inter als   0       0/      01      2
2 _t,      d deft, .kbf  y-=    *
*job titl (prmamy school teeder ets.) & code
o contrecisi boms per day sad per week
NW tet bul tst held by tbh mplyoye in sytm-
* mlast mntl G&W"" thltoeypwd
*  ows arontralgnnument
* lmmedlabampavlsor~t1,dt-1 we 
Ccinisp4odt(u of Decmber31 ofprviowysr rccukon                  0       Of      ol      o/     2/     2/      2/
SB emplayem in dalstams
CoTplasnipDt-cmmek dstbe (uicatkng.e slif n uber                              O    V       VV        2_
employem ftd dhir copaWmtlo  by job ddte and eodm. by 4delsgncim
valmPn*dM and aodHEe ontagod
SumhlT tsscyfedsewwucaaour        caaylgshem                   0 .      0/     V/    0V        2t     V       V
_cdd Sre   F.   Ta   f                                                              of fr te l  eO
so   (UPS"  taro  _t mo UN  Pi  uk  d _WXON           O                                 12      IV   V         IV  V   V



-109-
Annex 8
Page 9 of 16
Tab AlObS
NEBE-U STATE PROGRAM-KEY ACCOWnLINSHDM ICATORS
Ptqjecta mp1mntati CbeckHlsL PIC-2
(Agen Responible tr Moultosipp UMP
COXPODemw           M_uw                                    soerv*
oampaontsz   Educsatin Managemen Colmponment
Subeoponena  School Qualit MoitorWg
RepeateTarget Sco,eAetUa Score,
edeaural in May of subequeyear)
(_ee2,oht, = oI,=
cowry    W&Or19"    193   1994                                                                                 IV9 1199    1"1
ramca        TM    Tcaof Wao,CMO f"  bft         m       far am1S Ye   V             v       2
!Objec*dpoducteof TA, idaffiedin TOR  fowpwicus you            0          l                          2      it
add    Develop complot school profile  hatuomaa mdwusinafre. bosnd as  0       of      2/
Producb        as poibb on adg school reacts CPS  fwae.s. eSW.
D Complet ple for baskc magrnlaou      to oIely coduct          0        0/    2
alscbools sve. obtln ifowuation for qusndouue. 
oa vey. and upd_t school-We i'nomthon4lasbose
kambUsh coanpul    dtaba4steb  to colaect and _tbubschool-d    0      _/        of    2V                  ---g
* Coape anu  repoat smumari  school datbas sad coprI             0               0/      0/     2/      2/     2V
. by maunidpf. to FuAdimal Qallr Sandavs (FQ...
* Develop, publish.  end dism a   te VW"aid for  cb scbool      0        01/     of       /     v      v       2v
ach sdchoo to PQL adardis. and to aea  st  schools
ezunloa schoos loa  mm ammickllb, to beat pedonnag
*  *and to worst p.  lmegss mukal d_c                                       _
UpdatemboolqueioonsigetomwAch_  gaim FQLanOdaUdL               0               0/       /      V V    2/ 
roSa OVOs( oz vCCVAd                                                                         81o  v         W F            Wo



-110-
Page 10 of 16
Ta. A044
NE-EliI STATE PROGRAM-KEY ACCOMPLISHMENT INDICATORS
Projectdmplementaioncheclis: PIC-4
'Ageft Responibte  r M   ono    U!sP
St"  Cok=          Mwmnhw:             Panibuco:           Seripe: 
CoPoue"te     Educato  Maneoent Compoent
ubcopouk  Itgraed Mnmmnft nllmation Sysem
EqIetd Target Scot/Actna Score
ftsmed. in May of _beqaen year)
(yes2, abd-1, no-0)_
ategoay   becater                                                       R       J t92    1993    19    1995   1996   1997
Trgiv     hSpecubk ua;6g wgc  (ul,bAfg -m) for -Mx yesr ilbd.              O        Vf     V       V  21      V       Vv
__ Tag B.reT Lbs pe yetr achieved.                             f4 # V   2 V   21 _ll
Twhnied  C.Tem  of tefcc    CrOR} fateohn    mbal   for naxa year    O          V          21      2V      21   I 21     V
bjeckiinu/ptoduf of TA, ide     in TOR fim Sou  yor           O       C/      V       V          21     V
RCequet for ICB Po0nc            w eted.                      O        Of     V|
F Requt for ICB Ptop       oon oop tuere                        O       O       21
R.Rquetfert.B?poeanpilonaUdmnualnaalntoe                  wAnmd  0      0/     21          . .
H All tie coaft awarded.                                       O         f     0.of 
An produtsa d evice deliverd.                                  O       of      0/      2 
-              bd ElucaI;O MnnentlnfmatlooSyetam nl I h d      0       O        / 01          V
fo key secrtardo       F i a t deniaunt org payoll,
planCnIg. cool monitoring (the Sdchol Lvel I.
ot SUD). .u    n m       ,   d a   oa.
All omputequpmtpdnalt90%. t 9/                                                01 0           V       V
store (wpecid twat a        at   won)                  V                                   41     IV     121



-111-
Annex 8
Page 11 of 16
NEBE-li STATE PROGRAM-KEY ACCOMLISME  INDICATORS
"Proecta  mpleumntaia*Checklist: PIC-5
(Age  Responuible for Moloing: UNS
C.r,                                                ..nho  -anb=                 ...                     ..                     I
,I:Cat_        Mebo_                Pemamboco:_          Sctgpr -
ompoletit    Edu-lot  Mnagemnt Cmpo t
ubomponi Stte-d        l Prjeg spoaX Un
Bxpected Tnrgnt Seen/Atua Se.
CWeamurd in May of -beeqt  year)
.r.2. _  .   _l, _)
Cougory   gadicator                                      Best~~~~owS    192      1993    199     1995   1996   1997
olief    . Opertional Plans: Annual opetoal plan (OP) forlBEd              Dmaft    2V       2/        /             2/      2/
P#ucta   tlanaetemenComnontencomptatd. incdWing daid cuab fo
ubeequen year, and detailed Outcomc ndic_   fot moing te
plementationof eaeb actviby identified In dth OP.
OperalPlans: Annul opedona pla (OP) fortTeaher                  Daft      2/      2/       V      V       V       /2
completed inchdiAng dealed cam for v queyear, and
etaiad onteoe performance indicaon Se monitoring the
ml_ nentatlof eachb wvi* identified in th OP.
. OpcratinalPI=  Anul op_rstplan (OP) foredidacto               Daft      21 2_  _                2V      2/      21
unerX Edo cUl Mab Cq
kmpled. incudig detaed coats for wAbequ  year. med deied
ume pefonnco inwictor for moniforing the bnple_      oof
activiy ideatified in the OP.
Ky AcmplishmentIndicators: Completed P.                          0                2/      2/      2/      2/      2/
(PIC-1. PlC-2. PIC-3, PIC4. PIC4. and PIC7).  dated by
y folowing 6e year being moukoried. sAbmied to UNSP by May 30
fcuretuityear.
KeyAccomplitunantledicatom Coapleted3        lv1                 0         /      2/ 2U 2V 2V                     2V
Dtb(SIMD) RcrD  Proeto Pr_cmaeend Ddbe¢Orer
tab  (PPDOD) RecorL bolb updd by May follwig de yaer
a wng mnitoded. submitd to UNSP by May 30 of crrestyear.
Databa  Developmentand Opectlon The Pro3ect Protmatud             0       0/       21     2V       2/     2/      21
liveay Ortder Datb    (PPDOD) upta-dta ad oepcioL
.Outcome lIndicat. Compited eporton    Ou,                        0        01     2V       2V    2V        21    2V
implenumtprogteeao eace acdvity udr each
mpoonen u specified In th OPs. updatd quatedy. _duaored
'or ere yearw,  ni4bnAmid to UNSP by May 30 of th currnt yewr.
ate) score (expected target score/actual acore)                            3 Diem      6/    1 14     1W       14             t4
~~~-   m =.    



-112-                                                    8
Page 12 of 16
TaM Al".
NEBE-U STATE PROGRAM-KEY ACCOMPLISRA IDICATORS
"e ft    endtoaOxckst. PIC46
. _aiepah b,Mme5a I2NSR
1~~~~~~~~na 9                  S       W edor bp)m Ao  J
*14aabw*oaeoD.aaS..dav ?wyar_1.63
.Sye d_fotr:                 Dv fSeamy             N-m.;SehSd
2~ ~~~cs :t _                     ___,_ .                    - ............... .
IS_&C atse "m  YVeo_   No__
yeo. wbc% amr.           alplu_qsawy_    Stam s                                             '             I
NI!t_ oa       Numb_ of rNew      N_mer of
MaaerlaWlaff    bfgedaWStaff      MRat.aIskaff    Date of
Avabl         An*.JTaae       AvaWb at lie, at  Sehool
Renurm (natearta or da                           A Stat ot Year   D. Scho  Yer    Seolod      Suary so"
e atbook   Po'uIm Gad. I
Powugum Oad4
Fotage..k Gad. I
Mad.a*ss Gad. 2
fad.madm Gtm 4
NaoalScie (an lyp.) Gadi  I
Newl Sdo. Gade 3
NeaaSolea  od. S
Newal Soe.amd.4
Socia Sadie (an "wp) Gass" I
soeci Sould" GOad
Socil so . Gasd S
Social Saie Grad 4
-te   tboob(oacumboob)                  ___1
)_________________________
t)-
5)
6)
ew~~~~~~~ , g_d                                  . a_  ..1
t_de sh (ib)      e 
o_f dkfm t&et _d uWil _b yew 
~~4tha.cs:                        ___        _      _.__ _    __             _
t_er of .ob cfloc     vd ua                    ___d__yew
of  re_m  oas oomb8a                           .. :- d..ye  :
3rd V     _" unhoN
_4 to oo
__G"_ =lmo
b --S_- im



-113-
Annex d
Page 13 of 16
t~~~                A
<~~~                I
i        I
Vi
A~~~[



-114-
Amex n
Page 14 of 16
Table AlOc.2
ProfiJ da Escola (pagina 2)
A.      Informacoes provenientes da propria ewcola 
2.      Ao uivel da escola
Perguntas sobre Salas de Aula                                                         ._.___._._;
Quantos salas de aula na escoW?
Quantos salas de aula term quadros-negros em beon condiciono?
Quantos salas de aula nao podem ser usados durmnte uma chuva?
Quantos procisam de reforma grandes consertos?
Quantos recobarem as reformas grandes esto ano?
O que foi a data que estes reformas acabaram (dia, mes, ano)                     I   /199
Perguntas sobre livros de leitura
Quantos livros de leitura existem na escola para os alunos das 11 a 2 series?
Quantos desses livros chogaram est ano?
o que e a data questes livros chogaram (dia, mes, ano)c                          I   /199_
Quantos livros do leitura existem na escola para es alunos das 3* a 4' scries?
Quantos desses livros chcgarmm est ano?
O que foi a data quo estes livros chegaram (dia, mes, ano)                       I   /199_
Quantos livros de leitura existem na escola parm os alunos das 5' a 8' series?
Quantos desses livros chegarem este ano?
Donde so guardem a maioria desses livros? - na sae da diretora (sim,' nao)?
- nos sales do aula (sim, nao)?
- na bibUoteca (simn, nao)?
- na dispense (sim, nao)?
- outro luger cspecifiquc:_
Perguotas sobre materias didaticos
A escola recebern materias didaticos (nao incluindo livros) est, ano?
O que foi a data que estes livros chbgaram (dia, mae, ano)
Donde se guardem a maioria dessas mawrias? - na sale da diretora (sim, nao)?
- nas salas de aula (eim, nao)?
- na biblioteca (sim, nao)?
- na dispense (sim, nao)?
- outro lugar epecifique:
Perguntas sobre a esoola
A escola precisa do reformea arades consertos?
A escola recebcu as reformas gandes esto ano?



Tablc AIO-¢3
-f-  7 cu uindo da Mau    pd             p_
Names&    A_o de   Naume do  B xpoa               Na Ma dhO all d    0  " oo  1 om          for a
Selworel            NaMe                                a quo       Made  _ s  aa             amob         de   eadin                     ebbA       sba de
_______                                    scu~~~~~~~~~~~~otm.pesa                           obthid          trinomato       por dla    auR
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _   0) 
_    _      _.     _(1)
______. (.                                                __ __                   _     _ _ _ _ __                r___
D       iofouAsea.  (1)                                      .                .
7 7 0)                                                                              ___ ___ __ ____ __ __ __
(3)____
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~(4)                                             _  _  _   _                                    _  _  _  _
________                                    __   ______                                                                    ______
_(7)                                  ____                               __
_____ (8)_                                                                              _-_   
(10)                                                                                                                                              t
_ _ _ _~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (__ .._ _                            _.___._
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~ (1 0)                                I_                                            _   _ _      _ _   _   _                                -
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~(12)                                              _   _  _   _   _  _   _  __                     _   _  _
(14)
- ~   ~      (6                                  __   __              __   __   _ __      _   _ .___         __ ___       __
______    _(1)                                                             ______ ____                                     ____
_d    __            ( 8b         _)                                N         l   la s perlw   _) _ _ _ _ _  __ ______   )   _N                       nori V
__ ____        _    __ _____ (19                                         l___   _           b_____ _____              e___t
(20)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
(1)                                                                                         (9)                                                                   a
______.._    ____________    ....                                                           ___________                         -       X              I
12)                  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                     l__ _ __ _ _                                                              o-
________  __ _ __ _ __ _ _                                                                         , -                                    



Pase 16 of 16
N33U" IfATE MOGRAM-flY ACCOb1USUMEHT IDICATORS
NEFE STA V SO Go*& n2SY v Dd" R&
SeuweoflDan (hi whm 1. bdow4s FC1" ).g?mamm  mi D*wY ON.. bd*ba  MMU~ St M
mma..    baM_  ?mub.    e
*   Mmee GeSD_
M-11441_Ul
mysyttfof ee  aui ee? Ye__  M...
1simW Now.           8    d    Od.   fsANY i  Sl      w I         _
Cibsm '  '   . i'. I                 C. '..I '' ',fC.nbdwm
Nmbuw ot Nfwbb&    Nhabw ot Vgah          KmWA  .1        co   2 sad
A  to be            A Stat         headt               CAM           .
DW__iuViIak4 hu -     D*WIadI?MhOI         ed Laoad       fw d . --
(maio,lnls orBoDjPa64                          ubeTo on=           wwau"
_    _  _  _   _  _   _  _      _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _            w   s           .   .  u a 2
Poaag scio Ouda 2
s"aw Sum"_                                                   Y0m 2 
$"W Sm.i OgN. 4
Maaz. Gui. S_                                                                        _           C_ 
mll (KW         (a_                                                            8. I
S Po "S        3   loads
l )_  . ._____ .._.._.l
b        Ned S_ffoas i  ache
NIS_~~ta Gd 3      maba
Raeeoi.da  .eae  .sa                          ...                               .
whel Ailiaghimis-!
...   . .    _           _           - . _     __  _~~~~~~~~Nt..
C _ S        W         ~ ~        _ __ _ __ _ ____                       .:      N



-117-
BRAZIL
NORTHEAff BASIC EDUCATION 11 IROIECT
SELECTED DOCU    AVALABILE IN PROJECT DUB
(A) Reoks and Docummts  elated to ft  Pr)c
A.1   Estudo de Gestio o Piano de Aclo Parm Marahblo. Arther Anden, D     r 1992.
A.2   Esuido de Gestlo e Plano de A o Para Ceard. Arther Andrse, December 1992.
A.3   Estudo de Gesto e Plano de Ado Para Pernabuco. KPMG, December 1992.
A.4   Estudo de Gestlo e Plano de Acdo Para Sergipe. Arther Andersen, Decbr 1992.
A.5   Book Provision in the Northeast Region. A report for the World Bank/Government of Bull.
International Book Development Ltd., July 199.
A.6   Guidelines (Roteiro) for the Preparadon of StatWes' Operaional Plans for the Education
Management Componen.
A.7   Guidelines for the Rules and Regulations for the Inovations Fund.
A.8   Lers of Commitment and Annual Management Efflciency Targe, from the Govrn  of
Maro,hl, September 1992 and Mauch 1993.
A.9   Letters of Commitment and Anua Management Efficienc Targe, fom the Governr o£
Cear, September 1992 and March 1993.
A. 10  Leters of Commitment ad Ann   Management Effcicy TrsM, frm the Governr of
Sergipe, September 1992 and March 1953.
A.11  Lees of Commitment and Anal Manement Efficiency Tages, front the Governor of
Permbuco, September 1992 and March 1993.
A.12  Descrigo Dealado do Component. Treine_o dos Professor., Guomsr Namo de Mdlo
e Rosa Neubauer da Silva, August 1992.
A.13  Descrigo Detaihao do Component. lme-Slice, Sergio Dompierl, AugS  1992.
(B) Reports and Wong Pa         ate   to the Sufb-At  r
B.1   Politics Educacional no Governo Collor. Anecdentes e Contradies. Guiomr Namo de
Melto e Rosa Neubauer da Silva. IESP, July 1992.
B.2   Educational Performance of the Poor: Lessons from Rural Northeast Brazil. Ralph W.
Harbison and Eric A. Haeshok, IBRD, 1992.



