Page  1
June 5, 1995
His Excellency
Mr. Pedro Malan
Minister of Finance
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
   Bloco "P" - 8o andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Re.:
Second Northeast Basic Education Project
(Loan 3604 BR) - Amendment
Dear Minister,
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
dated August 25, 1993. We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
The description of category 3 of the table set forth in paragragh 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(3)
Books, including
services related
to their distri-
bution"
2.
A new Subparagraph (c) is included in Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement to read as follows:
"(c) services related to books distribution; provided that the 
distribution of books 
for the school year of 1995 may be contracted directly with 
Empresa Brasileira de Correios e  Telegrafos, under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Bank."
3.
Subparagraph (b) of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
"(b) goods and computer maintenance services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of 
$50,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to (I) 
$2,000,000 for goods (other than educational 
materials) and computer maintenance services,  and (ii) $2,000,000 for educational 
materials."
4.
Paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
"2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval 
of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts 
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent 
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals 
estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Bank 
review 
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above."
 
If you are in agreement with the above amendments to the Loan Agreement, please 
Page  2
sign and date the form of confirmation below and return a signed copy to us.
Sincerely Yours
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
