Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3604 BR
Project Agreement
(Second Northeast Basic Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
Dated August 25, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3604 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 25, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF PERNAMBUCO (PERNAMBUCO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred twelve 
million dollars ($212,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that PERNAMBUCO agreed to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
PERNAMBUCO, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be transferred to
PERNAMBUCO on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS PERNAMBUCO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the preamble to this Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PERNAMBUCO declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out its part of Part A of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, through the agreements referred to in Section 2.10 of this 
Agreement, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the carrying out of its part of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. PERNAMBUCO shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of its part of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. PERNAMBUCO shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PERNAMBUCO shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. PERNAMBUCO shall provide to the Borrower all information necessary 
to allow the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 3.06, 3.07 and 
3.08 of the Loan Agreement in a timely manner, such information to include, inter 
alia: 
(a)
an assessment of the progress made by PERNAMBUCO in achieving its AMET 
during the preceding year, by not later than October 15, 1993 and thereafter, by not 
later than April 30 of each year, starting on April 30, 1994;
(b)
a proposed PAA for the subsequent twelve-month period starting on January 
1, by not later than August 31 of each year, starting on August 31, 1993; and
(c)
an assessment of the progress made by PERNAMBUCO in the execution of its 
part of Part A of the Project, by not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, 
of such scope and in such
detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. PERNAMBUCO shall:
(a)
by not later than October 31, 1993, and by not later than June 30 of each 
year, starting in 1994, excepting in 1995, review, jointly with the Borrower and the 
Bank, the progress in the execution of its part of Part A of the Project, any such 
review to be based upon the progress reports furnished by the Borrower to the Bank 
pursuant to Section 3.07 (a) of the Loan Agreement; and
(b)
if, as a result of the above review, the Bank determines that the 
progress in the execution of the part of Part A of the Project by PERNAMBUCO, or in 
the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, PERNAMBUCO shall promptly take 
or cause to be taken all such remedial action as shall be necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, as recommended by any 
Page  3
such review.
Section 2.07. PERNAMBUCO shall:
(a)
by not later than June 30, 1995 review, jointly with the Borrower and the 
Bank, the progress in the carrying out of its part of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its respective obligations under this Agreement, and the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and on the achievement of the objectives of the Project, such review to be 
based on the terms of reference referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.08 of the 
Loan Agreement; and
(b)
if, as a result of the above review, the progress in the execution of its 
part of Part A of the Project, or in the achievement of its objectives, is not 
satisfactory, PERNAMBUCO shall promptly take or cause to be taken, all such remedial 
action satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of 
the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
Section 2.08. PERNAMBUCO shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the carrying 
out of its part of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by PERNAMBUCO of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.09. PERNAMBUCO shall maintain UESP, until completion of the Project, 
as referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) PERNAMBUCO shall enter into an agreement (convenio) with each 
Eligible Municipality, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such 
agreement to provide, inter alia:
(i)
the mechanisms to make available to such Eligible Municipality 
part of the 
proceeds of the Loan to be disbursed under Categories 
(1) and (2) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Loan Agreement, with respect to 
the carrying out of Municipal 
Subprojects;
(ii)
that the respective Eligible Municipality shall:
 
(A)
allocate for education expenditures, in its annual budget, 
no less than 
25% of its annual revenues originating from taxes 
(including tax 
revenues transferred from other 
sources);
(B)
carry out the corresponding PAI and cause each Subproject to 
be carried 
out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(C)
provide all information requested by PERNAMBUCO, in order to 
comply 
with its obligations under Sections 2.05 and 
2.07 of this Agreement;
(D)
not hire any new education staff without a competitive 
examination (concurso);
 
(E)
only make new investments in school refurbishment, expansion 
and 
construction which are consistent with its 
prioritized program of 
investments, duly reviewed by 
PERNAMBUCO, based on a municipal school 
mapping survey 
prepared in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
the 
Operational Manual; and
(F)
provide all funds necessary to finance the operation and 
maintenance of 
the municipal schools; and
 
(iii)
that the works and goods to be considered as Subproject Eligible 
Expenditures 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
 
Page  4
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, PERNAMBUCO shall not abrogate, 
amend, waive or fail to comply with any such convenio or any provision thereof, and 
shall exercise its rights under any such convenio in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01 (a) PERNAMBUCO shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its part of Part A of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of PERNAMBUCO responsible for carrying out its 
part of Part A of the Project.
(b)
PERNAMBUCO shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as so available, but in any case not later 
than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of PERNAMBUCO 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify PERNAMBUCO thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  5
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the State of PERNAMBUCO:
Secretaria de Educacao, Cultura e Esportes
Rua Siqueira Campos, No. 304
50.000 Recife, Pernambuco
Brazil
Telex:
81-3211
With copies to:
(a)
Ministerio da Educacao e do
   Desporto
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "L" -
5o andar
70047 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1068
(b)
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
   da Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento
   e Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" -
5o andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-2207
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PERNAMBUCO may 
be taken or executed by the State Secretary of Education, Culture and Sports or such 
other person or persons as such Secretary shall designate in writing, and PERNAMBUCO 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Page  6
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
By /s/ Roberto Jose Marques Pereira
Authorized Representative
