Report No. 1070-PH                                                              FILE  COPY
Philippines
Appraisal of
the Second Livestock Development Project
February 20, 1976
General Agriculture Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Pesos (t) 7.50
' 1.00         =    US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)           =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2 =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) =    0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)      2             39.37 inches
1 square meter (m )      =    10.76 square feet
1 kilogram (kg)               2.24 pounds
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
BAE       =    Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BAEcon    =    Bureau of Agricultural Economics
BAI            Bureau of Animal Industry
BOI            Board of Investments
BPI       =    Bureau of Plant Industry
COA       -    Commission on Audit
DBP            Development Bank of the Philippines
DNR       =    Department of Natural Resources
FTI       =    Food Terminal Incorporated
NEDA      =    National Economic Development Authority
NFAC      =    National Food and Agricultural Council
NMIC      =    National Meat Inspection Commission
PLA            Pasture Lease Agreement
PNB       =    Philippine National Bank
UPCA      =    University of the Philippines,
College of Agriculture
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAIN TEXT
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .......... .. ...............
I .    INTRODUCTION  . .........................................                   1
II.    BACKGROUND  ............................................                     2
A.    General  ..........................................                    2
Climate  .....................................                  2
The Economy  .................................                  2
B.   The Agricultural Sector  .................                              3
Contribution to  the Economy  ...............            .      3
The Livestock Sub-sector and Government
Policy  ....................................                 3
Demand and Prices  ...........................                  4
Livestock Population and Production Systems  .                  4
Animal Health  ...............................                  6
Agricultural Credit  .........................                  7
C.    Development Bank of the Philippines  ....                 ..........   7
D.    Implementation of the First Livestock Development
Project  .....................................                  9
E.    Agricultural  Services  ............................   10
Institutions  ................................    10
Marketing  ...................................    11
F.    Project Formulation  ..............................    11
III.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................    12
A.    General Description  ..............................    12
The appraisal team comprised A.J. Blackwood, D.J. Babelon, M.L. Brown (Bank),
D.I. Sillar, E.W. Root and M.J. Walshe (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
B.      Detailed  Features  ................................                                 13
Project  Area  ...                 .............................              13
Sub-loan  Size  ........                .......................              14
Farm  Development  ............................                              15
Pig  Farms   .             ..................................                 15
Poultry  Broiler  Farms  ......                   ............... ..          15
Poultry  Layer  Farms   ......                  ..................            15
Hill  Beef  Cattle  Breeding  Farms                        .............      15
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Breeding/
Fattening  Farms  ........................                            16
Integrated  Coconut/Dairy/Beef  Farms  .                         ........     16
Backyard  Cattle  Breeding/Fattening   ....                        ......     16
Slaughterhouse  Development  .............. .                   . ...         16
Livestock Feed Quality Control Program ......                                 17
Technical Services, Training and Research  ...  17
Environmental  Impact  ........................                               19
C.      Cost  Estimates                   ...................................                 19
D.      Financing               ........................................                      21
E.      Procurement                 ......................................                    22
F.      Disbursements   ............   o                 .......................              22
G.      Organization  and  Management   .......................                               23
H.      Lending  Policies  and  Procedures   .................                         .      23
I.    Accounts  and  Audit  ...............................                                   25
IV.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND
PRODUCER  BENEFITS   ................................                                 25
A.      Production              .......................................                       25
B.      Markets  and  Marketing   ....   .                 . .......................          26
C.    Producer  Benefits  .......                  ..............           ...........       27
V.      ECONOMIC  BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION   ...................                                  27
VI.      AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS   ....... .. ...                                     29



- 3 -
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture and the Livestock Sub-sector
Map - Climate Types (No. IBRD-10133)
Chart - Monthly Precipitation According to Type of
Climate (no. IBRD-6160)
Table 1  -    Crop Areas
Table 2   -    Crop Production
Table 3   -    Value and Volume of Imports of Livestock Products
Table 4   -    Livestock and Poultry Population by Regions
2.   Pig and Poultry Production
3.   Cattle and Buffalo (Carabaos) Production
4.   Pig and Poultry Rations
5.   Slaughterhouses
6.   Demand, Marketing, Transport and Prices of Livestock and
Livestock Products
Table 1   -    Consumption of Animal Proteins
Table 2   -    Animals Slaughtered in the Provinces and
Greater Manila Area 1974
Table 3   -   Present and Proposed Retail Price Ceilings
and Actual Prices - Meat and Eggs
Table 4   -    Transport Cost  of Cattle
Table 5   -    Transport Cost  of Pigs
7.  Pig Breeding/Fattening Model
8.   Broiler Production Model
9.   Egg Production Model
10.   Hill Beef Cattle Farm Model
11.   Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening Model (5 ha & 20 ha)
12.   Integrated Coconut/Dairy/Beef Model
13.   Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
14.   Municipal Slaughterhouse Model
15.   DBP Administration, Technical Services, Equipment and
Research - Investment Projections



- 4 -
16.   Development Bank of the Philippines
Table 1   -   Agricultural Projects Department - Staffing
Chart 1   -    DBP-Organization Chart (No. World Bank 9981)
Chart 2   -    DBP Agricultural Projects Department - Organization
Chart (No. World Bank 15163)
17.   Technical Services
18.   Phasing of the Lending Program and Proposed Financing
19.   Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
20.   Projected Project Cash Flow
21.   Financial Rates of Return and Projections
Table 1   -   Financial Rates of Return
Table 2   -  Producer Benefits
22.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1  -    Summary Economic Rate of Return Calculations
MAP
The Philippines - Regions and Provinces (No. IBRD 11869)



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Republic of the Philippines has requested a second Bank loan
to assist the livestock loan program of the Development Bank of the Philip-
pines (DBP). The first livestock project (Loan 823-PH, US$7.5 million) is
progressing satisfactorily and all funds have been committed.   Sound financial
and technical appraisal procedures have been adopted, and about 90 livestock
appraisers have been trained, but there is need for more adequate sub-loan
supervision and monitoring. The proposed second loan of US$20.5 million would
assist DBP to continue financing livestock production, would improve sub-loan
supervision and monitoring, and would assist the Government to introduce a
feed quality control program. The proposed Project would finance about 1,850
pig farms; 400 poultry farms; 60 hill beef farms; 440 integrated coconut/
cattle farms; 200 small scale cattle farms; 10 municipal slaughterhouses, and
provide for supporting technical services, training and research. A total of
about 48 man-months of consulting services would be provided under the Project.
The Project would support DBP's continuing trend towards financing smaller
scale livestock enterprises.
ii.       The proposed loan would be the eleventh loan for agricultural de-
velopment in the Philippines. Government would be the borrower and DBP
would be the on-lending agency for most of the funds, assisted by the Bureau
of Animal Industry (BAI) on technical matters. DBP is a Government develop-
ment bank and is the single largest source of long term development finance.
DBP is the on-lending agency for seven Bank loans totalling US$193.4 million
(Loans 720-PH, 823-PH, 891-PH, 998-PH, 1048-PH, 1120-PH and 1190-PH). The
proposed Project would continue the institution building role of the first
livestock project through further expanding and improving DBP's livestock
loan capability.
iii.      Agriculture is the most important sector in terms of employment
(50% of the labor force) and export earnings (about 47% of total). The
sector contributes about 35% of GNP with the livestock sub-sector contri-
buting about 18% of total agricultural output and about 5% of GDP. The
Government placed special emphasis on livestock development in the 1972-75
Agricultural Development Plan, but although the country has been fairly
successful in meeting demand for pig and poultry meat, beef production has
lagged behind requirements. The National Beef/Carabeef Development Program
has been designed to correct this situation through the accelerated expansion
of beef production. Pork and poultry meat production will continue to receive
priority treatment as the main means of stabilizing consumer prices for meat.
The Project has been formulated to respond to these Government objectives.
iv.       Pig raising is the most important livestock production activity
in the Philippines and although most pigs are raised as scavengers, the use
of modern management techniques and improved breeds has increased rapidly in
the last few years, particularly around Manila and in South Cotabato prov-
inces. In rural areas the traditional raising of native poultry is widely



- ii -
practised.  Commercial flocks vary in size from a few hundred birds to
many thousands. Commercial pig and poultry farms use modern production
methods and management standards are generally satisfactory. Carabaos (buf-
falo) represent about 70% of the ruminant population and are used mainly for
draft. Three main beef cattle production systems can be distinguished:
(i) extensive grazing (mainly on rolling hill country); (ii) grazing
under coconuts; and (iii) backyard cattle raising. A fourth production
system, feedlot fattening on crop by-products (mainly sugarcane tops and
reject bananas) has developed recently but is not yet significant. Do-
mestic dairy production is very limited. Although most of the common live-
stock diseases are present in the country they are not a serious constraint
on production.
v.        The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$41.3 million
(t 310 million) of which US$12.4 million (t 93 million) is foreign exchange.
The proposed Bank loan would be for US$20.5 million, of which about 60% would
be for foreign exchange requirements. The Bank loan would be to the Govern-
ment for 14-1/2 years including 5-1/2 years of grace. The Government would on-
lend US$19.8 million of the proceeds of the loan to DBP on the same terms and
conditions and would bear the foreign exchange risk. The balance of US$700,000
of the loan would be used by Government to finance in part the feed quality
control program, the research component and the short term consultants.
Sub-loan commitments by DBP would be over three years and Bank disbursements
would be over 5-1/2 years. On average, sub-loan beneficiaries would con-
tribute about 13% o, investment costs although this would vary from minor
beneficiaries who would contribute about 10% to major beneficiaries, includ-
ing municipalities for slaughterhourses, who would contribute at least 25%.
Sub-loan terms would be similar to those for the first livestock project but
interest rates would be 12% for loans secured by land and for loans of
1 5,000 or less and 14% for other loans, with a 2% one time service fee for
major beneficiaries as defined by enterprise size after development. All but
US$3 million of the Bank loan would be on-lent to small to medium sized farms.
All sub-loans which exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 and all slaughter-
houses subloans would require the prior approval of the Bank.
vi.       Procurement for farm development (US$35.6 million) would be by
farmers from local suppliers, as in the first project. There are generally
adequate commercial outlets for the main inputs (concentrate feed, medicines
and -vaccines, and fertilizers) to permit sub-borrowers to obtain supplies at
competitive prices. The short supply of feeder and breeder cattle is a
potential constraint, but this problem is specifically addressed by this
Project and by the National Beef/Carabeef Program (1976-1985). The scattered
location and phasing over several years of the farm sub-loan projects and
diversity of equipment and supplies required makes bulk purchase of inputs
impractical. Some of the local suppliers are subsidiaries or associate
companies of international firms. Slaughterhouse contracts totalling
about US$1.9 million) would be locally advertised since their small size
(average of US$190,000 each), scattered locations and phasing according to
demand, is unlikely to be attractive to international contractors and does
not permit aggregation into larger contracts. There is adequate local
fabrication and construction capability and compeitition to ensure that



- iii -
the relatively simple slaughterhouses proposed can be procured efficiently.
Equipment and materials for the feed quality control laboratory (US$0.4 mil-
lion) would be procured by international competitive bidding. Contracts for
technical services (about US$0.2 million) may be provided by bilateral aid
but would otherwise be awarded according to standard Bank procedures. The
vehicles and equipment (US$160,000) required for administering the Project
and for technical services would be procured locally by DBP, using standard
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Bulk international procure-
ment of vehicles and equipment is not warranted because requirements are
phased over several years and the lot sizes are too small to be attractive
to international bidders.
vii.      The Project is of high priority and has an estimated economic rate
of return of 25%. Annual incremental production at Project maturity in Year
11 would be about 25,000 tons of livestock products, 8,000 tons of copra and
5,200 cattle weaners. The Project would directly create the equivalent of
5,830 full time jobs. The Project would result in about US$17 million for-
eign exchange savings at maturity. Based on experience under the first live-
stock project about 80% of direct and indirect beneficiaries (over 40X of
sub-borrowers and most wage earners) would be in the rural poverty target
group with present annual per capita incomes of less than US$140.
viii.     The proposed Project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$20.5 mil-
lion with a 14-1/2 year maturity including a grace period of 5-1/2 years.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of the Philippines has requested a second Bank loan
to help finance the livestock loan program of the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP). The first loan for the livestock sub-sector (Loan 823-PH,
US$7.5 million) is fully committed and the proposed second loan of US$20.5
million would mainly assist DBP to continue financing livestock production.
1.02      The proposed loan would be the eleventh Bank loan for agricultural
development in the Philippines. 1/ Government would be the borrower and
DBP would be the executing agency. DBP is a Government development bank
and is the single largest source of long term development finance. Loan
approvals to date total US$2.8 billion, but of this, only about US$220 mil-
lion (about 8%) is for agricultural production, the bulk of loans having
been for industry (including agro-industry). DBP is the on-lending agency
for seven Bank loans totalling US$193.4 million (Loans 720-PH, 823-PH, 891-PH,
998-PH, 1048-PH, 1120-PH and 1190-PH). DBP's complete operations have been
reviewed most recently during appraisal of the second industrial loan. 2/
Based on this analysis and progress on the first livestock loan, DBP is
1/   393-PH, 1964, US$6 million - Agricultural Education, UPAC (Los Banos)
432-PH, 1965, US$5 million - First Rural Credit Project (Central Bank)
607-PH, 1969, US$12.5 million - Second Rural Credit Project (Central
Bank)
637-PH, 1969, US$34 million - Upper Pampanga Irrigation Project
720-PH, 1971, US$14.3 million - Rice Processing and Storage (DBP)
823-PH, 1972, US$7.5 million - Livestock I (DBP)
891-PH, 1973, US$11.6 million - Fisheries Credit (DBP)
984-PH, 1974, US$9.5 million - Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project
(with US$9.5 million IDA Credit 462-PH)
988-PH, 1974, US$50 million - Industrial Credit Investment Project
1048-PH, 1974, US$20 million - Inter-Island Shipping Project
1010-PH, 1974, US$22 million - Third Rural Credit Project (Central Bank)
1080-PH, 1975, US$17 million - Tarlac Irrigation
1102-PH, 1975, US$25 million - Rural Development Project
1120-PH, 1975, US$30 million - Small and Medium Industrial Development
Project
1190-PH, 1975, US$75 million - Second Loan for Industrial Financing
Through DBP.
2/   Appraisal of a Second Loan to the Republic of the Philippines for
Industrial Financing through the Development Bank of the Philippines,
Report No. 820-PH, November 5, 1975.



-2-
considered a satisfactory on-lending channel for the proposed second livestock
development loan. Two other follow-up projects through DBP (grain processing
and fisheries) have been appraised and are expected to be presented to the
Board in FY76. There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank
projects in the Philippines in the last two or three years compared with ex-
perience in the 1960's, and project implementation performance is now very
satisfactory.
1.03      The Project was prepared by DBP staff and this report is based on
the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. A.J. Blackwood, D.J.
Babelon, M.L. Brown (Bank), D.I. Sillar, E.W. Root and M.J. Walshe (Consult-
ants), which visited the Philippines in April/May 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of the Philippines, with an area of about 30 million
ha, is situated in the Tropics between latitude 4'23' and 21'25'N. The
archipelago extends over 1,600 km from north to south and comprises more
than 7,000 islands, of which 11 account for about 95% of the total land
area. The Population in mid 1973 was 40.2 million with a growth rate of
3.0%. GNP per capita was about US$250 in 1973.
Climate
2.02      High temperature, humidity and rainfall characterize the climate.
Mean temperatures range between 21' C in January to 190C in May. Rainfall,
the most important climatic variable, ranges from 1,000 mm in Southwest
Mindanao to 5,500 mm in the highlands of Luzon. Annual rainfall is most
reliable with an average variation between years of about 14%. However,
pronounced dry seasons do occur. Climatically, the Philippines has high
potential for crop and forage production. The environment is well suited
to pig, poultry and beef production.
The Economy 1/
2.03      Prior to 1973 the economy grew for a decade at 5-6% a year in
real terms. In 1973 this rate increased dramatically to 10%, largely as
a result of increased export prices. The subsequent deteriorating external
terms of trade reduced the real growth rate to about 6% in 1974, and the
real growth of GNP in 1975 is estimated at about this level. The Government's
1/   Detailed analysis of the economy may be found in report No. 568-PH,
Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Philippines, November,
1974. The Report of the recent Basic Economic Mission which visited
the Philippines in April/May, 1975, is in preparation.



- 3 -
real growth target is 7%. Agriculture grew by 7% in 1973, following three
years of poor weather which depressed output. In 1974 farm output registered
a 10% growth rate, although with a dramatic fall in forestry production the
growth of the agricultural sector (which includes forestry and fishing) was
only 3.4%. Inflation emerged as a major problem in late 1973 with consumer
prices rising at an annual rate of 40% for 1974; inflation moderated sub-
stantially in 1975, however, and is expected to be about 10% for the year.
The trade deficit has increased with falling export prices and this trend
is not expected to reverse until the recession in major export markets is
over. Employment increased by 5% in 1974, but real wages declined by 20%
except for rural wages which increased in real terms as a result of the
rice price being increased. In 1975 real wages continued to decline. To
meet these trends the Government is committed to development policies which
concentrate on food production to achieve food self-sufficiency, diversified
export production and investment in import substituting production.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Contribution to the Economy
2.04      Agriculture is the most important sector in terms of employment
and export earnings. Agriculture, forestry, fishing employ about 50% of the
labor force and farming contributes on average just under half of exports.
The main exports are coconut and sugar cane products. From 1972-74 agricul-
ture contributed about 35% of GNP. Food crops contributed 12%, livestock
6%, export crops 9%, fisheries 4% and miscellaneous 4%. The agricultural
sector could make a significant contribution to import substitution. In
1974, imported agricultural products accounted for 11% (US$356 million) of
total imports by value. Of this, US$155 million was grains and grain prep-
arations, US$74.5 million was dairy products and US$36 million was feedstuffs.
The Livestock Sub-Sector and Government Policy
2.05      The livestock sub-sector contributes about 18% of total agricul-
tural output and about 5% of GDP. In addition carabao (water buffalo) and
steers are an important source of draft power. The Government places high
priority on the development of the livestock sub-sector to (a) increase
production to meet increasing domestic demand, and (b) as a means of diver-
sifying smallholder production. The Government put special emphasis on
livestock development in the 1972-75 Agricultural Development Plan in order
to satisfy demand for meat and increase meat and egg consumption towards
matching national nutritional targets by 1975. Funds were allocated mainly
to pig production (about 55%) and poultry development (about 15%). The
country has been fairly successful in meeting demand for pig and poultry meat,
but beef production has lagged behind requirements. The Government is very
conscious of the effect on prices of supply shortages, and in the Greater
Manila area, the most important consumption center, meat prices are a major
cause of popular concern. The livestock sub-sector is included in the Gov-
ernment's Investment Priorities Plan which entitles investors to various



- 4 -
financial concessions when their investments contribute to meeting unsatis-
fied domestic demand or exports. A new livestock development program is
under preparation and is expected to place emphasis on feedstuff production
and on an expanded beef cattle development program. Pork and poultry meat
production will continue to receive priority treatment as the main means
of satisfying domestic demand for meat.
Demand and Prices
2.06      Domestic demand for livestock products is expected to grow at
about 6% p.a. (para 4.02) through 1985 and increased dependence on imports
or higher prices will result if domestic production expansion is not com-
parable. Philippine per capita meat consumption at 15.8 kg p.a. in 1972 is
relatively high compared with per capita income. Of this, 52% was pork,
20% was beef (including carabao beef) and 18% was poultry. Fish is also
a very important protein source in the Filipino diet. Increasing production
of meat has only just kept pace with population increase so that per capita
intake has not increased over the past decade and may have even decreased.
For the whole country, the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA)
estimated total protein intake in 1972 to be 97% of NEDA's recommended level.
For animal proteins the intakes as a percentage of the target intake in a
balanced national diet were for meat, poultry and fish 88%, for dairy pro-
ducts 28%, and for eggs 51%.
2.07      Domestic prices for livestock products except milk have been
comparable to world prices, although local beef prices in 1974 were 80% above
the unusually low Australian prices and poultry prices have recently been
20-50% above world prices. Fresh milk is about twice the price of developed
countries supplies. In the long term domestic prices for meat and eggs are
likely to be determined mainly by the local demand and supply situation. The
opportunities for importing significant quantities of the main livestock
commodities (pork, poultry meat and eggs) to stabilize prices in the event
of domestic production not satisfying demand, are not likely to be significant.
World trade in these three products is relatively small. Pork and beef
imports are subject to a 10% tariff and there is a 70% tariff on imported
poultry meat, but imports are controlled more by embargoes, during periods
when price ratios favour imports, than by import duties.
Livestock Population and Production Systems
2.08      In January, 1973, the livestock population was estimated to be
9.7 million pigs, 100 to 110 million poultry, 2.2 million beef cattle and
5 million buffalo.
2.09      Pigs:  Pig raising is the most widespread livestock production
activity in the Philippines. The pig population is spread throughout the
islands but there is a notable concentration in Central Luzon serving the
major consuming center of Greater Manila. Some 80-90% of pork production
is believed to come from backyard producers. Most of these pigs are local
razor-back breeds. Commercial piggeries, which have expanded rapidly in the
last few years, are located principally in Central Luzon around Manila and



in South Cotabato provinces. Most commercial production is in relatively
small herds of less than 50 head. Commercial enterprises employ modern
technology and management systems. Pig rations are generally well-balanced,
although there may be periodic and/or regional shortages of some ingredients.
Many large producers compound their own feed. In commercial units pure
bred boars of several of the improved temperate zone breeds are used to
produce crossbred pigs for market. The role of the large commercial pro-
ducers is expected to increase in the future but there is also opportunity
for major expansion of small scale production, provided credit and technical
assistance is available.
2.10      Poultry:  Nearly three million households are estimated to keep
poultry. Like the pig industry, the poultry industry is heavily concentra-
ted around Manila near the feed mills and main consumption center. Some 90%
of the poultry are in units with less than 500 birds and there are a few
very large producers. In rural areas the traditional raising of native birds
is widely practiced. Individual output of these birds is very low, but the
aggregate output of meat from this source is about 75% of total poultry
meat produced. Commercial flocks vary in size from a few hundred birds to
many thousands and generally birds are kept in intensive confinement. On
commercial farms modern production methods are used and management standards
are satisfactory. A small number of large vertically integrated units with
30,000 to 100,000 birds have developed recently and are expanding rapidly.
These units are owned mainly by the feed milling industry and operate
complete systems from breeding farms, through hatchery, feed compounding,
product,on units and processing plant to retail outlets. Many medium sized
broiler producers have contracts with these 'integrators' who supply them
with chicks and feed and take back the grown broilers. As in other countries
this trend towards contract production may be expected to continue. Egg
production in the Philippines is highly developed particularly in urban
areas. Modern housing, equipment and management is used and the expanded
egg industry has had a great impact on the market through quality control,
price reduction and improving seasonal supplies.
2.11      Pig and Poultry Feeds:  The main problem facing the pig and poultry
industries is adequate availability of reasonably priced good quality feed-
stuffs. The Government is addressing the quality problem through the
introduction of a feed quality control program which is supported by a
component in the proposed Project. A large part of the soyabeans, fishmeal
and meat and bone meal used in feeds is imported.  Sorghum grain for feed was
imported for the first time in 1974 (20,000 metric tons). However, given the
broad base of corn production (about 2.7 million ha) and the present very low
average yield (o.8 m.t/ha), the Philippines has great potential for expanding
feedgrain production. Improving the availability of high protein feedstuffs
has greater problems (Annex 4). The feed production position is discussed in
greater detail in Annexes 2 and 4 and reasons are given there for addressing
the problem more in the context of other programs and projects rather than
directly under this proposed project. Briefly, (i) the problem of feed
production is considered more appropriately handled under the on-going
national coarse grain program Masaganang Maisan, which provides production
finance, and (ii) funds for post-harvest grain handling are available under
other Bank credit projects (the Third Rural Credit through the Central Bank
and the present and proposed grain processing projects).



- 6 -
2.12      Beef Cattle and Carabao:  Eighty-two percent of the cattle and
carabao are equally distributed between the two largest islands of Luzon and
Mindanao with the Visayas accountiug for the balance. Carabaos represent
about 70% of the ruminant population and are mainly used for draft. Culled
animals are slaughtered for meat and carabao beef accounts for 60-70% of all
beef consumed in the country. However, in the long run the carabao as a
specialist beef producing animal is unlikely to compete in the Philippines
with cattle which are potentially more efficient producers. Present methods
of beef cattle production are mainly traditional and are generally characterized
by inefficient land use and poor management. Three main beef production
systems can be distinguished: (i) extensive grazing (mainly on rolling hill
country); (ii) grazing under coconuts; (iii) backyard cattle raising. A
fourth production system, feedlot fattening on crop by-products (mainly
sugarcane tops and reject bananas), has developed recently but is not yet
significant. Beef cattle production is stratified. The hill farms are
breeder units which supply stock to the other enterprises. Coconut/cattle
enterprises are both fattening and breeding operations. Backyard production
by small farmers is principally for fattening hill raised cattle, but there
are also backyard breeder units and some steers are used for draft. Native
cattle have been crossed with Bos indicus breeds for several decades and most
recently American Brahmans have been introduced to upgrade these crossbred
cattle. The resulting animal is large boned and suitable for beef produc-
tion under Philippine conditions.
2.13      The average annual weaning rate for beef cattle in the Philippines
is low at about 50% because of poor management and nutrition and possibly
disease.  It is too early yet to judge average weaning rates being achieved
on cattle enterprises financed under the first livestock project, but rates
of 70% to 80% should be achieved on coconut farms, with rates of 55%-60%
being likely under the less favorable conditions on hill farms. There is
ample scope for increasing production of fat cattle under the backyard,
coconut grazing and feedlot systems if the supply of feeder cattle could
be increased. Thus it is essential to concentrate first on increasing numbers
and weaning rates of the national breeding herd in any development strategy.
This is the main focus of the National Beef/Carabeef Development Program
(1976-85), which was published in late 1975. Further detail on cattle
production systems is in Annex 3.
2.14      Dairying:  There are only about 50,000 dairy-type animals in the
Philippines and most of the milk and dairy products consumed in the country
are imported. Apart from carabao, which are sometimes milked for home con-
sumption, there is no tradition of dairy production in the Philippines and
there are only seven commercial dairy farms located in the vicinity of the
main cities. However, there is potential for expanding the dairy industry
based on improved grass/legume pasture under coconuts, particularly in the
vicinity of towns where fresh milk can be readily marketed at an attractive
price.
Animal Health
2.15      Many of the common livestock diseases are present in the country
but they are not a serious constraint on production. Disease control is



aided by the island structure of the country. Veterinary supplies are avail-
able throughout the country, mainly through the private sector, and most
commercial producers use modern vaccines and prophylactic measures and
maintain reasonable standards of hygiene.
Agricultural Credit
2.16      Institutional sources supply probably about a third of agricul-
tural production credit which in real terms has not changed significantly
since the late 1960s. This has partly been the result of Government policy
which formerly channelled financial resources more towards industrial de-
velopment. There were inadequate institutions serving agriculture and
collateral requirements have not in general given the predominant small
farmers, particularly tenant farmers, access to institutional credit.
Government strategy to overcome these constraints focuses on the rapid ex-
pansion of private rural banks with supervision and subsidized funds from
the Central Bank. There are now over 700 rural banks with assets of 12.1
billion (US$280 million) and they have provided three quarters of the increased
institutional credit, in current terms, for agriculture since 1965. Most
of the rural banks lending is for short term production credit but they also
provide medium term finance for machinery and equipment and they have in-
creasingly financed small farmers. Three Bank loans (432-PH, 1965, US$5
million; 607-PH, 1969, US$12.5 million, and 1010-PH, 1974, US$22 million)
have provided funds for rural banks through the Central Bank. The Philippine
National Bank is also an important but declining source of credit for agri-
culture, accounting for 28% of the outstanding institutional loans to agri-
culture. It provides mostly short term production credit and has financed
half the loans in the national rice and corn programs (Masagana 99 and
Masaganang Maisan respectively). Some 30 private commercial banks provide
about 27% of institutional agricultural credit. In order to halt the relative
decline in the proportion of funds from this source going to agriculture, a
Central Bank directive requires that a minimum of 25% of all loanable funds
of the commercial banks go to agriculture. In addition 32 private develop-
ment banks (total assets of f300 million) are a further important source of
agricultural credit. They lend long term funds for small scale enterprises
and about half their loans are for agriculture. DBP is an expanding source
of agricultural credit (in 1974 holding about 12% of institutional loans
outstanding to agriculture), although its operations are dominated by
industrial lending (78% of total approvals compared with 8% for agriculture).
Ceiling interest rates in the Philippines have been fixed since 1970 by the
Monetary Board at 12% for loans secured by land and 14% for loans secured by
other forms of collateral. The 12% and 14% rates were negative real rates
of interest during the period of high inflation (1970-1974) but with infla-
tion now expected to stabilize at about 10%, a real positive interest rate
will be restored.
C. Development Bank of the Philippines
2.17      The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) is a Government owned
bank which plays a major role in mobilizing capital resources and in the past



two years has accounted for 13% of total fixed capital formation. As of
June 30, 1975, DBP's outstanding loans totalled P3,560 million (US$475 mil-
lion) of which agricultural loans totalled 1989 million (US$132 million).
Total assets at this date were F2,923 million (US$390 million). Over 40%
of DBP's agricultural lending is approved by its 35 branches, which have
approval power up to f50,000 (US$6,670). Agricultural loans cover most
activities and in cumulative amounts approved are distributed as follows:
food crops (mainly rice), 38%; commercial crops (mainly coconuts and sugar),
34%: livestock, 19%: and fisheries, 9%. Of the livestock portfolio almost
70% is for pigs, about 20% for poultry and about 10% for cattle. For FY75
DBP reports net earnings (excluding trust funds) of 171 million (US$9.5
million) on total operating income of ?570 million (US$77.2 million). More
detailed information on DBP as a whole is available in the appraisal report
for the second industrial loan. 1/ DBP has been charging a general interest
rate of 12% with a special preferential rate of 9% for loans under
f5,000 (US$670). However, to improve its financial position DBP has agreed
during negotiation of the second industrial loan to raise its interest rates
for all types of loans to 12% for loans fully secured by land and loans under
f5,000, and to 14% for all other loans. These are the present Monetary Board
ceilings.
2.18      The Agrictultural Projects Department is responsible for the
agricultural credit programs of DBP, and fisheries and forestry loans.
The Department has 178 staff (of which over 140 are professionals) and is
headed by an experienced DBP officer. This officer resports to a Super-
vising Governor who is also responsible for the Branches and Agencies
Department, thus providing the necessary close coordination of headquarters
and branch agricultural lending. The Agricultural Projects Department is
divided into five technical groups for (a) Fisheries, (b) Livestock and
Poultry, (c) Cereals and Feedgrains, (d) Crops, and (e) Plans and Programs,
and a Management Services Group (Annex 16). The Livestock and Poultry Group
was established under the first Livestock Development Project (para 2.22).
2.19      In common with the other DBP departments the arrears position of
the Agricultural Projects Department has been improving over recent years.
As of April 30, 1975, some 45% (Y125 million) of the total agricultural
portfolio was in arrears, but many of the accounts in arrears date back to
the period before improved appraisal and collection procedures were intro-
duced in 1974. Many of these accounts are being restructured, which should
improve collection performance. Out of the 7,169 accounts in arrears,
1,411 were mature accounts of which 230 (16%) were in litigation with values
of f17.5 million of principal balance and f21.5 million in arrears. Collect-
ion performance has improved since the early 1970s with 89% and 84% realized
respectively for the two quarters October-December 1974 and January-March
1975. During negotiation of the second industrial loan DBP agreed to
improve its arrears position by increasing penalty charges on all delinquent
1/   Appraisal of the Second Loan for Industrial Financing through the
Development Bank of the Philippines, Report No. 872-PH, September 22,
1975.



9 
loan accounts, and this can be expected to improve the arrears position
further.
D. Implementation of the First Livestock Development Project
2.20      A US$7.5 million Bank loan was signed in May, 1972 for livestock
development in specified areas by providing finance, through DBP as on-
lending agency, for some 1,450 small and medium size pig, poultry and
integrated coconut/beef cattle farms, 25 hill beef cattle breeding ranches,
three slaughterhouses, and for technical services. After a slow start, the
project is now progressing satisfactorily. All of the loan funds have now
been committed by DBP. Commitments are similar to appraisal estimates for
numbers of farm loans approved.   In view of the delayed commitment of
slaughterhouse funds (US$0.6 million) the Bank agreed to reallocate these
funds to farm sub-loans, and DBP undertook to complete the slaughterhouse
component of the project from its own funds. Disbursements as of January 31,
1975 totalled US$5.2 million (69%). Of total farm/ranch funds, loans for pig-
geries absorb about 75% (appraisal estimate 44%); poultry, 15% (40%);
coconut/beef cattle, 5% (10%); and hill beef, 5% (6%). The enterprises
financed are in accordance with the project objectives and DBP has demonstrated
its ability to handle medium and long term financing of mainly small to medium
sized livestock enterprises. For the principal category of loans, for pig-
geries, the loans average aboutt50,000 (US$6,700) for 11 sow units. This
is in contrast to the official view when the first project was appraised that,
since economies of scale were financially essential, it would not be possible
to establish viable small scale modern livestock enterprises. The good
results obtained under the first project have contributed to this change
in official thinking and policy. Debt repayment flows have not yet reached
levels which allow judgements to be made on repayment performance, but
inspection of a wide sample of enterprises indicates that sub-loans are
being used to establish viable units.
2.21      The loan was approved initially for livestock development in
specific areas of the country: Central and Southern Luzon, Mindoro and
Masbate islands and areas of North and South Mindanao. However, as DBP's
livestock loan supervision capabilities expanded and more branches and agencies
were opened the Bank agreed tto expand the project area to cover most of the
country. The only limit to this expansion has been DBP's ability to process
and service loans in new areas with the appropriately qualified staff. How-
ever, as a result of demand sub-loans have been committed mainly in the highest
priority areas of Central Luzon and South Cotabato for pigs; Central and
Southern Luzon for poultry; and Mindanao, Mhasbate and Mindoro for cattle.
2.22      The Livestock and Poultry Group in the Agriculture Projects De-
partment of DBP was established for the first project and is functioning
effectively. It has 34 staff. Sound financial and technical appraisal
procedures have been adopted, but there is need for improved loan supervision
and monitoring. So far ninety-one livestock appraisers have been trained
under the project (40 existing DBP staff and 51 new staff), and of these
after wastage, promotions and transfers, 70 remain in the branches or at



- 10 -
head office to process and supervise sub-loans. The Project provided for
three full time technical specialists to assist DBP management, but these
posts were filled through New Zealand aid and the funds have been reallocated
for farm/ranch financing. The Project has provided short term consultants
in the use of sugarcane by-products for cattle and in pig breeding and their
reports are forming the basis for further developments in these fields.
E. Agricultural Services
Institutions
2.23      The Department of Agriculture, mainly through the Bureau of
Animal Industry (BAI), is primarily responsible for the administration of the
livestock sub-sector. The Department of Natural Resources also has an
important role in the sub-sector, since Pasture Lease Agreements for hill
land are administered by it under the Forestry Reform Code. The BAI provides
veterinary services and maintains breeding stations, stock farms and artifi-
cial insemination centers. The BAI is a large organization with some 2,200
technicians but the quality and effectiveness of its services could be im-
proved. Problems which require attention include staffing, poor service
conditions, and inadequate incentives for field travel. The Government is
aware of the present problems of the BAI, but at the time of appraisal it
was agreed with Government that these problems should not be resolved in
isolation for this bureau alone since many of BAI's problems are common to
other agencies and would have been more effectively addressed in an agricul-
tural services project which was then under consideration. Subsequently the
Government has decided that the agricultural services project is premature
and is not expected to request some assistance for BAI under the upcoming
rural credit and education projects. Consequently the proposed Project
limits direct involvement of BAI to the provision of technical services,
according to a new coordination agreement to be negotiated with DBP (para
3.17) and assistance for the establishment of a livestock feed quality
control program (para 3.13).
2.24      Within the Department of Agriculture there are four other agencies
which are closely concerned with the sub-sector. These are the National
Grains Authority (controls import and distribution of all grains, including
feedgrains); the National Food and Agricultural Council (coordinates and
implements all Government food self-sufficiency programs); the National Meat
Inspection Commission (regulates slaughterhouses and meat standards); and
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (which together with BAI supplies ex-
tension advice to livestock farmers). Livestock industry research is mainly
the responsibility of the BAI but is also carried out by a number of other
agencies. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) in the Department
of Agriculture provides data and analyses for planning and policy purposes
and disseminates price and market information. The University of the Philip-
pines College of Agriculture (UPCA) at Los Banos and the College of Veteri-
nary Medicine conduct the main basic research. Other universities and
colleges also have livestock research programs. The Bureau of Forestry in



- 11 -
the Department of Natural Resources conducts range management trials, while
Central Mindanao University, the BAI and UPCA are other important centers
of pasture improvement work. The agricultural research program as a whole
is coordinated by the Philippine Council for Agricultural Research, which
also has direct control of all Government funded research.
Marketing
2.25      The marketing of livestock products is predominantly in private
sector hands and although the system is generally adequate, costs and margins
are high. The Greater Manila area, with four million population and high per
capita incomes, dominates the meat and egg marketing system. The establish-
ment by Government of the very large Food Terminal Incorporated (FTI) facility
to serve as a wholesale outlet and storage system for the Greater Manila area
has not yet had a major impact on the marketing of livestock products. DBP
has a majority shareholding in this public corporation, but FTI's operations
are in effect directed and controlled by the Government. Only 5% of FTI's
capacity is at present used, but through the introduction of numerous pro-
vincial buying points FTI hopes to lower marketing margins and reduce
seasonal supply and price fluctuations, particularly of perishable produce
(mainly vegetables, fruit, meat and fish). Present traditional methods of
marketing pigs and cattle involve mainly live shipment to the Manila area,
from the outer islands and Luzon generally, of batches of animals aggregated
by middlemen. Typically, animals pass through several hands before reaching
the consumer. Chickens and eggs are also handled in the traditional manner,
but there is a greater degree of direct selling by producers to retail
outlets, particularly by producers located around Greater Manila. Marketing
is not a constraint on development of the livestock sub-sector and with the
growing participation of FTI producers will have an additional outlet.
F. Project Formulation
2.26      The Project was prepared mainly by the Agricultural Projects Depart-
ment of DBP. The preparation report proposed a livestock sub-loan program
similar to that under the first livestock project, finance for two large
slaughterhouses and a 23,000 ha feedgrain development component. The feedgrain
component was later dropped from the Project for reasons given in para 2.11
and in Annex 4. Finance for two large regional slaughterhouses (mainly to
allow shipment to Manila of carcases instead of live animals) in the first
livestock project has not been committed and the Bank agreed to reallocate
these funds for farm loans. However, new Government requirements to improve
slaughterhouses have given rise to a need for finance by municipalities for
upgrading over 500 small slaughterhouses which process local meat requirements
and the Project provides some initial funds for this purpose. The Project
appraisal also added additional small components to develop small scale back-
yard cattle breeding and fattening and for small dairy enterprises on pasture
under coconuts. The feed quality control component of the Project was pre-
pared by BAI.



- 12 -
2.27      The main constraints on expansion of the livestock sub-sector are
availability of suitable long term finance, inadequate technical services for
livestock producers, feedstuff availability and quality, and inadequate
breeder and feeder cattle supplies. In addition the poor state of public
slaughterhouses is a further problem which is not strictly a constraint on
production expansion, but which constitutes a significant health and environ-
mental hazard. The Project has been formulated with these problems in mind
and would contribute significantly to ameliorating factors now restricting
expansion of livestock production.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would:  (a) continue to assist the Philippines to
increase domestic production of livestock products by providing funds to
enable DBP to continue and extend its lending for livestock producers,
particularly for smallholder pig and poultry enterprises (69% of farm
investment) and for beef cattle; (b) finance a number of small scale beef
cattle and dairy enterprises; (c) improve the technical services provided
to DBP livestock borrowers by both DBP and BAI; (d) provide for applied re-
search and trials on specific livestock production problems; (e) assist the
country's efforts to upgrade municipal slaughter facilities and (f) assist
the establishment of a livestock feed quality control program. The Proj-
ect components are as follows:



- 13 -
Z Total
Number of        Project Cost           Project
Components                    Loans      (t Million) (US$ Million)   Cost
(a) Farm Development
Pig breeding/fattening         1,850        108.8           14.5         35
Poultry:  Broiler                250          20.8           2.8          7
Layer                 150          27.1            3.6          9
Cattle:  Hill Farms               60          18.2           2.4          6
Integrated coconut/
beef breeding/
fattening             440          40.8            5.4         13
Small scale breed-
ing/fattening         200           1.1            0.2         -
Sub-total                       2,950        216.8            28.9        70
(b) Municipal Slaughterhouses         10          11.6            1.5         4
Sub-total (a + b)                  228.4           30.4         74
(c) Feed Quality Control Program                   6.0            0.8          2
(d) Administrative Costs,
Technical Services,
Equipment and Research                        11.9            1.6         4
Sub-total (a + b + c)              246.3           32.8         80
Expected price increases            63.2            8.5         20
Total                              309.5           41.3        100
A greater proportion of farm development funds is expected to be required
for poultry and cattle enterprises than have been committed under the first
project since DBP is placing greater emphasis on financing these types of
sub-loans. Greater emphasis on financing beef production is required in
order to support the implementation of the National Beef/Carabeef Program
(1976-1985). Farm and slaughterhouse models are presented in Annexes 7-14.
B. Detailed Features
Project Area
3.02      Sub-loans under the Project would be available on a countrywide
basis subject only to DBP having qualified livestock staff available in the
relevant branches and agencies concerned. The appraisal mission also discussed



- 14 -
with DBP the concept of adopting a campaign approach to promote certain
categories of loans in favorable locations in order to achieve a significant
initial impact in new areas. This would provide greater impact in high
priority areas compared with the present loan program which relies mainly
on demand for loans without specific promotion by DBP. This would economize
on processing time and reduce the work load by processing batches of similar
loans simultaneously. It was agreed that this approach should be a regular
feature of the Project.
3.03      Although it is proposed that the project should be countrywide in
scope DBP is aware that there are a number of practical factors that militate
against enterprises being financed without critical regard to their locations.
It is important that the resources available are concentrated in areas and
enterprises where they can achieve the best results. This implies inter alia,
that pig and poultry production is financed only where there are readily
available feed supplies and that hill farms are not financed where they
are likely to have only a limited life because of land use problems (Annex 3).
In the case of the initiatives in small scale cattle finance and dairying it
is important that the enterprises are concentrated in a few highly suitable
areas to facilitate close specialist supervision. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that DBP would concentrate its efforts to committing funds
in locations which take into account sound environmental, technical and
financial criteria.
Sub-loan Size
3.04      Average sub-loan size under the first livestock project has been
satisfactory at about J 56,000 (US$7,470). This reflects the financing of
a large number of small and medium sized sub-projects and a few large sub-
projects. It is expected that the trend towards financing smaller sub-loans,
established under the first project, would continue under the Project. Larger
loans would be made but on equity grounds and since many larger pig and
poultry enterprises can expand using internally generated funds, the number
of sub-loans which exceed US$100,000 equivalent would be limited to a total
of US$3 million (15%) of Bank funds, of which amount not more than US$500,000
would be for pig and poultry sub-loans. This provision would ensure that
about US$2.5 million of Bank funds would be available to finance hill cattle and
coconut/cattle farms, the development of which forms an important part of the
cattle expansion program. Accordingly, assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that DBP would commit no more than US$3 million (of which no more
than US$500,000 would be for pig and poultry sub-loans) of the Loan funds to
financing sub-loans which exceed US$100,000 equivalent (taken together with
any outstanding balance on previous DBP livestock loans). Sub-loans below
US$100,000 equivalent are split into two categories according to enterprise
size after development to allow for different sub-borrower equity contributions
and a one time service fee for all but the smallest sub-borrowers (paras 3.26
and 3.28).



- 15 -
Farm Development
Pig Farms
3.05      About 1,850 pig farms would be financed under the Project.  Loans
would finance the purchase of 10 sows on average, construction of buildings,
and working capital for a two year development period. Typically the Project
would finance both small new operations with 5-10 so0W and the expansion
of small operations from the 5-10 sow level to the 15-30 sow level. The
Project would finance about 6,160 sows per year on about 616 farms and this
would represent about 80% of DBP's present financing of piggeries and about
26% of the expansion of sow numbers required to meet projected increases in
domestic demand for pork (Annex 2). The bulk of the finance for the remaining
expansion of pig production is expected to come from surplus funds from
existing piggeries.
Poultry Broiler Farms
3.06      The Project would finance about 250 farms.  The development period
for these sub-projects would be one year. This would represent about 57% of
the incremental growth required to satisfy the minimum expected increased
domestic demand (Annex 2). On average sub-loans would finance the expansion
of units by 4,000 birds per batch (average investment per farm of US$10,700)
and would be mainly contributing to the expansion of small units (1,000-5,000
bird capacity) to a size where they are more commercially viable. Loans
would finance mainly buildings, equipment and incremental working capital.
Borrowers would normally be expected to have some previous experience of
commercial poultry management.
Poultry Layer Farms
3.07      The Project would finance about 150 egg farms of about 4,000 addi-
tional layers each. This would represent about half the estimated incre-
mental growth required (Annex 2). Sub-loans would average about US$24,000
and would finance mainly buildings, equipment and incremental working capi-
tal over the two year development period. The main objective would be to
expand small semi-commercial growers from about 2,000 layers to 6,000 which
is a more viable commercial scale.
Hill Beef Cattle Breeding Farms
3.08      The Project would finance about 60 hill beef farms.  Hill cattle
farming is a medium to large scale operations, with Pasture Lease Agreements
being generally for areas of from about 100 hectares upwards. Investments
would therefore range from about US$20,000 per farm to over US$100,000 for
larger properties. The Total Loan funds for these larger properties would
be limited for a maximum of US$3 million (para 2.04). Finance would be for
mainly buildings, corrals, fencing, additional stock, a small area of improved
pasture and incremental working capital. Farms would average 400 ha in size
and loans would enable them to be developed over 4 years to carry about 150
animal units, a 52% increase wn present stocking rates (Annex 3). Hill cattle
farms are a very important source of feeder cattle for small backyard fattening



- 16 -
units,and also provide breeder cattle for the development of integrated
coconut/beef cattle farms. The output from these Project farms will be
readily absorbed by both Project and other demand for feeder and breeder
cattle.
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening Farms
3.09      Some 440 farms would be financed with an average loan size of about
US$14,500. Two types of breeding/fattening farms would be developed: about
150 small units of about 5 ha to carry 8 feeder cattle (US$3,400 investment)
and about 270 farms averaging 20 ha of pasture to carry a breeding/fattening
herd of 40 animal units (US$16,000 investment). Larger farms could be fi-
nanced within the limit set for large loans (para 3.04). The development
period would be 3 years for all sizes of farm. Investment would be mainly
for fencing, corrals, water supply, pasture establishment, stock and incre-
mental working capital (Annex 3). Cattle under coconuts represents a major
opportunity for expanding the national breeding herd (a major policy ob-
jective) since the production coefficients are most favorable on this type
of enterprise.
Integrated Coconut/Dairy/Beef Farms
3.10      This pilot development would aim to finance about 20 farms suitably
located to allow convenient milk sales either fresh or to existing processing
plants. Investment would average US$11,10W per farm of about 10 ha of pasture
and would establish herds of about 27 animal units with 13 milking cows.
Investment would be for fencing, water, a corral and milking shed, stock and
incremental working capital. The development period would be 2 years. This
component of the project would seek to establish the parameters for this type
of enterprise with a view to a possible larger development at a later date.
Backyard Cattle Breeding/Fattening
3.11      The project would finance about 200 small farmers to establish
small units at an average cost of US$700 each. Finance would primarily be
for a heifer and 3 feeder steers and the unit would build up over 9 years to
contain 8 animals, of which 3 would be breeding cows (Annex 3). Other
minimal investment would be for a small corral, legume seed and working
capital. This type of livestock production has great potential for the
smallholder with surplus feed from his farm and family labor available to
tend the cattle. DBP already finances this type of enterprise, mainly for
fattening on by-products.
Slaughterhouse Development
3.12      The project would finance the establishment, replacement or upgrading
of 10 small municipal slaughterhouses over a three year period at an average
cost of US$190,000 each. The slaughterhouses would have capacity for a daily
throughput of 20 cattle and 100 pigs, this being the size most in demand,
and would be located in smaller cities throughout the country (Annex 5).
This would permit municipalities not only to improve hygiene and efficiency
in town slaughterhouses but where appropriate would also permit the reloca-
tion of these facilities to lower cost, less congested areas away from town



- 17 -
centers. Investment in new slaughter facilities is required by a recent
Government directive to improve all unsatisfactory slaughter arrangements.
The new facilities would be self-financing and would reduce wastage,
particularly that caused by the poor flaying and curing of hides. Slaughter-
house model designs would be subject to the approval of the Bank (para 3.14).
The finance provided would cover site work (but not land purchase since
these are replacement facilities), buildings, utility services, plant and
equipment and meat transport. Funds for much larger slaughterhouse in the
first project have not been committed as quickly as expected (para 2.20) but
commitment of funds for the ten much smaller municipal slaughterhouses is
expected to proceed more rapidly, since there are over 500 public slaughter-
houses, most of which will require improvement to meet the new standards.
Livestock Feed Quality Control Program
3.13      The greatly expanded feed milling and compounding industry is not
at present subject to adequate regulation and poor feed quality is a potential
constraint on the further development of the livestock sector. The Government
has formulated plans to provide for the routine analysis of commercial feeds
and to improve the quality of feeds. The Project would finance the equipment
and material needs for the establishment of a feed quality control laboratory,
which is the main infrastructure requirement of the program. The laboratory
would be operated by the Bureau of Animal Industry in the Department of Agri-
culture and it is intended that its operating costs would be largely financed
from analysis fees. Regular analysis of commercial feeds would be required
by law. Further preparation of the program is required and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that full details of the proposal would be pre-
pared and submitted to the Bank for review and comment before plans are
finalized and expenditures on the feed laboratory are incurred.
Technical Services, Training and Research
3.14      The Project provides for three categories of specialists:
(a)  two full time specialists for one year to assist DBP
(cattle production and monitoring);
(b)  four short term consultants to be engaged by Government
(to cover pig nutrition, poultry nutrition, use of by-
products by ruminants and backyard cattle production
systems); and
(c)  consultants to DBP to design model slaughterhouses.
Much of the two technical specialists' time will be spent in the field based
on branch offices. Terms of reference are in Annex 17. They will be assisted
by DBP technicians who will be assigned to work with them and who will be
trained by the specialists to assume responsibility for promotional, super-
vision and monitoring programs. The emphasis of the two specialists' work
in the Project will change, however, compared with the first project, to
concentrate more on providing borrowers with technical services, on pro-
motional work and on monitoring of sub-loan performance. Less emphasis is



- 18 -
now required on the routine processing of sub-loan applications, although
this will fall within the monitoring role of the specialists in order to
assist DBP to improve its processing performance, particularly to reduce
sub-loan processing delays. The present three technical specialists engaged
by DBP under the first livestock project are to remain until November, 1976.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DBP would engage two
specialists acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank for the 12 month period beginning not later than December 1, 1976,
or such other period to be agreed with the Bank. The four short term con-
sultants would be engaged by the Department of Agriculture.   The work on
the use of by-products by ruminants is a continuation of that financed under
the first project, which showed encouraging results. Investigation of pig
and poultry nutrition and backyard cattle productive systems would improve the
quality of the technical services provided to livestock farmers. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would, within six months
of loan signing, engage four short term consultants acceptable to the Bank
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The slaughterhouse consultants
are required to design model slaughterhouses which DBP can use as the basis
for making loans to municipalities. Once acceptable models have been esta-
blished it is expected that they would be used, with suitable adaptation, for
all slaughterhouse sub-loans. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that DBP would engage consultants acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, to design model slaughterhouses acceptable
to the Bank, and use these models as the basis for all slaughterhouse sub-loans.
Some of these technical services may be provided by bilateral assistance, in
which case the Bank funds in the loan would be reallocated to other categories,
as in the first project.
3.15      Training of DBP staff for livestock work would continue as under
the first project, both through formal training and on-the-job instruction
by experienced DBP staff assisted by the three full time consultants as
necessary. Training and retraining of technicians would provide staff
replacements and further expand DBP's livestock lending capability, both
at head office and in the branches. Formal training would consist of intensive
courses over several weeks of groups of 20-30 staff with both classroom lectures
and practical experience being given in livestock production techniques and
loan processing procedures. These training periods would also serve to identify
more promising staff for appointment to specialist livestock posts. The Pro-
ject also provides for international travel to enable DBP staff to improve
their knowledge of livestock production systems. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that DBP would train or retrain an adequate number of
livestock technicians to support the livestock lending program.
3.16      Under the Project the Government would provide funds (about
US$150,000 for mainly equipment, livestock and feeds to enable suitable
institutions to undertake applied investigational work on rations for pigs
and poultry. This work would be planned and supervised by the pig and
poultry nutrition consultants in consultation with the Bank. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would within 12 months
of loan signing submit to the Bank for review and comment the terms of
reference for the applied investigational work into pig and poultry nutrition,
and following Bank review would provide grant funds of not less than US$150,000
equivalent, or such other amount to be agreed with the Bank, for the work to
be carried out.



- 19 -
3.17      Since 1973, DBP has had an agreement with the Bureau of Animal
Industry to coordinate their roles in the development of livestock produc-
tion. Under this agreement DBP agrees to provide borrowers with "technical
assistance and advisory services" for planning, budgeting and marketing
and BAI agrees to provide animal husbandry and veterinary technical services
upon the request of DBP. However, this agreement is not very effective be-
cause BAI technicians are not involved in the sub-loan application and
appraisal process and there is little incentive for them to become involved
at a later stage of enterprise development. Since DBP cannot be expected
to provide full livestock extension services from its own resources it is
proposed that under the Project, DBP and BAI would renegotiate and implement
a new agreement acceptable to the Bank to ensure that BAI technicians can
be involved in sub-loan projects from the outset. Whenever the appropriate
BAI technicians are available to assist, the new arrangement will be designed
to facilitate the involvement of BAI technicians as a matter of routine and
not only at the request of DBP.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that as a condition of effectiveness the Government would cause BAI and DBP
to enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank to provide for increased
assistance by BAI to DBP borrowers for livestock purposes.
Environmental Impact
3.18      The impact of the Project on the environment would be minimal,
although the location of some livestock enterprises close to residential
property requires review. All pig and poultry farms would use or sell waste
products for fertilizer and fish farming purposes. Some pig farms would
use wastes to manufacture methane gas for cooking using simple digesters.
DBP includes finance for this purpose if requested. Hill farm and coconut/
cattle sub-projects would be developed on existing grassland or coconut farms
and would require negligible clearing of land. Hill farm development on
natural grassland is subject to adequate Government controls and would not
contribute to erosion problems. Slaughterhouse design would be subject to
Bank approval and would include facilities for satisfactory handling of
waste products and effluents (para 3.14 and Annex 5).
C. Cost Estimates
3.19      The estimated total cost of the Project is US$41.3 million
(0310 million) of which US$12.4 million (f93 million) is foreign exchange.
Components of total project cost are shown in the table below.



- 20 -
Total Project Cost                %
of Total
LC     FE    Total   LC    FE    Total  Project    % FE
----Ct Million) - -   --(US$ Million)-      Cost      Cost
I. Fixed Investments
Pasture Estab-
lishment          6.6   2.6    8.2    0.9   0.2   1.1         3        20
Fencing             5.0   2.2    7.2    0.7   0.3   1.0         2        30
Farm Water
Facilities        8.1   2.0   10.1    1.1   0.3   1.4         3        20
Farm Buildings    51.7   9.1   60.8    6.9   1.2   8.1         20        15
Farm Machinery      1.0  10.5    1.5    0.1   0.1   0.2         -        33
Breeding Stock    36.7   1.1   37.8    5.0    -    5.0         12        -
Slaughterhouses
Buildings and
Equipment         6.1   4.4   10.5    0.8   0.6   1.4         3        42
Feed Laboratory    3.0   3.0    6.0    0.4   0.4   0.8          2        50
Miscellaneous       4.2   0.5    4.7    0.5   0.1   0.6          1       10
Sub-total   122.4  24.4  146.8   16.4   3.2  19.6         47        15
II. Incremental
Working Capital
Concentrate Feed  22.8  34.2   57.0    3.0   4.6   7.6          18       60
Medicine and
Vaccines          1.5   2.2    3.7    0.2   0.3   0.5          1       60
Fertilizers         4.6   6.9   11.5    0.6   0.9   1.5         4        60
Labor               3.7    -      3.7    0.5    -    0.5         1       -
Feeder Steers       4.8    -      4.8    0.6    -    0.6         1       -
Day-old Chicks      3.9    -      3.9    0.5    -    0.5         1       -
Miscellaneous       2.0    -      2.0    0.3    -    0.3         1       -
Sub-total    43.3  43.3   86.6    5.7   5.8  11.5         28        50
III. Administration,
Technical Services,
Equipment and
Research            6.1   5.8   11.9    0.8   0.8   1.6          4       49
IV. Base Cost
Estimate          171.8  73.5  245.3   22.9   9.8  32.7         79       30
V. Physical Con-
tingencies
(Slaughterhouses
10%)                0.6   0.4    1.0    0.1   ...   0.1         ...      42
VI. Expected Price
Increases          44.3  18.9   63.2    5.9   2.6   8.5         21       30
VII. TOTAL EXPECTED
COST OF PROJECT  216.7  92.8  309.5   28.9  12.4  41.3         100       30



Costs were estimated at late 1975 prices mainly from data obtained under the
first livestock project with physical contingencies of 10% for slaughterhouses.
Expected price increases are 10% for 1975, 8% for 1976 and 7-1/2% thereafter
for local costs and as follows for foreign costs of equipment: 1975, 12%;
1976, 10%; 1977-79, 8%; and 1980-85, 7%. Expected price increases have been
included in the allocation of funds for the loan program so that the physical
program could be achieved and would not reduced by the effects of inflation.
The size of the sub-loan program is related to the expected demand for finance
by enterprise type and DBP's capacity to process loans.
D. Financing
3.20      Financing of the Project would be in about the following amounts
and proportions:
Financing - (US$M)
Beneficiaries    DBP/Govt    IBRD            Total
Components         Amount   %    Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %
Farm Development          4.8      13    t3.7    37   18.5    50   37.0   100
Slaughterhouses           0.5      25     0.5    25    0.9    50    1.9   100
Feed Quality Control
Program                  -      -       0.4    50    0.4    50    0.8   100
Administration, Technical
Services, Equipment and
Research                   -      -       0.9    56    0.7    44    1.6   100
Total                5.3     13    15.5    37   20.5    50   41.3   100
3.21      The proposed Bank loan would be for US$20.5 million, of which about
60%, or US$12.4 million, would be for foreign exchange requirments and about
40%, or US$8.1 million, would be for local currency requirements.
3.22      The Bank loan would be to the Government for 14-1/2 years including
5-1/2 years of grace. The Government would relend US$19.8 million of the
loan funds to DBP on the same terms (including interest rate and grace period)
and would assume the foreign exchange risk. The balance of US$700,000 of the
loan would be used by Government to finance in part the feed quality control
program, research component and the short term consultants (para 3.14).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would relend
the proceeds of the loan to DBP on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. On average, beneficiaries would contribute about 13% of investment
costs although this would vary from minor beneficiaries who would contribute
about 10% to major beneficiaries, including municipalities for slaughterhouses,
who would contribute at least 25%.



- 22 -
E. Procurement
3.23      Procurement for farm development (US$35.6 million) would be by
farmers from local suppliers, as in the first project. There are generally
adequate commercial outlets for the main inputs (concentrate feed, medicines
and vaccines, and fertilizers) to permit sub-borrowers to obtain supplies at
competitive prices. The short supply of feeder and breeder cattle is a
potential constraint, but this problem is specifically addressed by this
Project and by the National Beef/Carabeef Program (1976-1985). The scattered
location and phasing over several years of the farm sub-loan projects and
diversity of equipment and supplies required makes bulk purchase of inputs
impractical. Some of the local suppliers are subsidiaries or associate
companies of international firms. Slaughterhouse contracts (totalling
about US$1.9 million) would be locally advertised since their small size
(average of US$190,000 each), scattered locations and phasing according to
demand, is unlikely to be attractive to international contractors and does
not permit aggregation into larger contracts. There is adequate local
fabrication and construction capability and competition to ensure that the
relatively simple slaughterhouses proposed can be procured efficiently.
Equipment and materials for the feed quality control laboratory (US$0.4
million) would be procured by international competitive bidding. Contracts
for technical services (about US$0.2 million) may be provided by bilateral
aid but will otherwise be awarded according to standard Bank procedures.
The vehicles and equipment (US$160,000) required for administering the
Project and for technical services would be procured locally by DBP, using
standard procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Bulk international
procurement of vehicles and equipment is not warranted because requirements
are phased over several years and the lot sizes are too small to be attractive
to international bidders. Equipment and materials for the feed quality con-
trol laboratory ($0.4 million) would be procured following international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines.
F. Disbursements
3.24      Loan commitments by DBP would be over three years and DBP would
disburse to sub-borrowers over periods up to 4 years, depending on the
type of enterprise. Bank disbursements would be over 5-1/2 years, allowing
for phasing of commitments and for 6 months slippage (Annex 19). The Bank
would reimburse, against statements of expenditures, 50% of medium and long
term loans granted by DBP to Project beneficiaries for pig, poultry, backyard
cattle, dairy and slaughterhouses and 54% for coconut/beef and hill beef
loans. This latter higher disbursement rate is necessary to ensure that
Bank disbursements for these slower maturing developments do not extend
beyond 5-1/2 years, after which time investments on these two types of
enterprises will be small. For consultants, the Bank would reimburse
100% of the foreign exchange costs, or 60% of the total costs if local con-
sultants are engaged, to cover salaries, international travel, and allow-
ances. The Bank would reimburse 100% c.i.f. for equipment and materials
imported by DBP or the Government for its use or 60% of total expenditures
if procured in country. For the feed laboratory equipment the Bank would
reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange cost or 100% of the ex-factory cost



- 23 -
of goods produced in the Philippines. The estimated schedule of quarterly
disbursement is in Annex 19. Since the project would support DBP's on-going
livestock program and the proceeds of the First Livestock Loan were fully
committed at the end of 1975, it is proposed that the proposed loan finance
retroactively up to $1.5 million of costs incurred under DBP's livestock
lending program after December 31, 1975.
G. Organization and Management
3.25      The Project will be executed mainly by DBP, in particular by the
Livestock and Poultry Group of DBP's Agricultural Projects Department (paras
2.18 and 2.19). Coordination of headquarters and branch activities is main-
tained by the Supervising Governor who is responsible for both the Agricultural
Projects Department and the Branches and Agencies Department. For sub-project
technical services, DBP will increasingly rely on its new agreement with BAI
(para 3.17). DBP would monitor once a year a randomly selected sample of
sub-loans (financed under both this Project and the first Livestock project)
of each enterprise type to evaluate the economic, financial and physical
impact of the lending program for the guidance of DBP management and staff
processing further sub-loans. Monitoring would be mainly the responsibility
of the existing Plans and Programs Group of the Agricultural Projects Depart-
ment, assisted as necessary by the Livestock and Poultry Group and the two
Project specialists (para 3.14). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that DBP would annually monitor in a manner acceptable to the Bank a randomly
selected sample of sub-loans (financed under both this Project and the first
livestock project) and submit the monitoring report to the Bank together with
the annual reports (para 3.29). The feed quality control and research com-
ponents would be the responsibility of the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) in
the Department of Agriculture.
H. Lending Policies and Procedures
3.26      Loans would be made by DBP direct to project beneficiaries, both
to farmers and to municipalities in the case of slaughterhouses. Loan
applications would be evaluated with regard to technical, financial and
economic feasibility, and creditworthiness. The trained technicians re-
sponsible for this work would be assisted as necessary by Project technical
specialists. Sub-loans of less than 1 50,000 (or such other limit as DBP
decides) would be approved by branch managers, subject to confirmation by
DBP's board. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DBP would
use the standard sub-loan agreement for sub-loans as approved by the Bank
for Loan 823-PH and not alter it materially without prior consultation with
the Bank. Loans would not exceed 70% of the market value of the property
to be mortgaged including improvements financed by the loan, or 65% of
market value of items securing a loan by chattel mortgage. Minor benefi-
ciaries would on average be required to provide 10% of the incremental
investment from their own resources while major beneficiaries (as defined
in para 3.28) would contribute at least 25% of the incremental investment.
3.27      Repayment terms would be flexible and would be based primarily
on the ability of the applicant to repay the loan from the proceeds of the
investment. Terms would in general be in accordance with the following
schedule:



- 24 -
Total       Grace
Term        Period
-----Years
Pigs                                        10           3
Poultry                                      8           2
Hill Cattle                                 13           5
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle              10           4
Integrated Coconut/Dairy/Beef Cattle        10           4
Backyard Cattle                             10           4
Slaughterhouses                             10           4
Interest rates would be 12% for sub-loans secured by land and 14% for other
sub-loans, except that the 12% interest rate would apply to all loans of
' 5,000 or less. These are the interest rates which DBP agreed to apply to
all its sub-loans during negotiation of the Second Industrial Loan. It is
expected that most sub-loans under this Project would be made at the 12% rate.
Sub-borrowers would also be charged DBP's standard application fee which
ranges from f 30 for loans below t 10,000 up to f 500 for loans over f 0.5
million. With inflation expected to stabilize at less than 10% the 12% rate
represents a real positive interest rate to borrowers. The cost of DBP's
capital averages 7-1/4% and assuming this loan is made at 8-1/2% the blended
cost to DBP of Project funds would be 7.96%. This would give DBP a spread of
over 4%. The financial implications of the Project are shown in Annexes 20
and 21.
3.28      The Project is intended to finance mainly small and medium scale
farmers, but there are also likely to be a number of larger applicants whose
operations, although few in total number, contribute to stability and
stimulate progress in the livestock industry as a whole. It is appropriate
that sub-loan conditions should be stricter for this category of sub-borrower.
Major beneficiaries would be charged the appropriate 12% or 14% interest
rate plus, as in the first livestock project, a one time service fee of 2%
of the sub-loan amount. Major beneficiaries would be defined in terms of
the size of their enterprise after development as follows:
Estimated Size of Enterprise
After Development
Piggeries                 70 breeding sows
Broilers                  15,000 broiler capacity
Layers                     8,000 laying hen capacity
Integrated
Coconut/Cattle          50 breeding cows
Hill Beef Cattle         165 breeding cows
In addition, all slaughterhouses sub-loans would be classified in the major
beneficiary category. All sub-loans which exceed the equivalent of $200,000



- 25 -
and all slaughterhouse sub-loans would require the prior approval of the Bank.
Assurance8 were obtained during negotiations that DBP would apply sub-loan
interest rates and terms acceptable to the Bank and submit to the Bank for
prior approval all sub-loan applications which, together with any outstanding
balance on previous DBP livestock loans financed from Bank funds, exceed the
equivalent of US$200,000.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.29      DBP's accounts are audited by staff of the Commission on Audit
(COA) which maintains a permanent staff at DBP. The Examination and Super-
vision Section of the Central Bank also reviews and reports on DBP's accounts.
Separate project accounts would be maintained by DBP and audited annually by
COA and such audit would be acceptable to the Bank. Audited Project accounts,
together with DBP's financial statements, would be submitted to the Bank
within three months of the close of each fiscal year. DBP would submit
quarterly reports on the Project, in a form acceptable to the Bank, within
30 days of the close of a quarter, as under the first livestock project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DBP would maintain separate
Project accounts and, following an independent audit acceptable to the Bank,
submit those to the Bank within three months after the close of each fiscal
year and submit quarterly reports on the Project in a form acceptable to the
Bank.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AMD PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      The project will produce mainly additional pork, chicken meat,
eggs and beef. Pork will be the greatest quantitative increase. In addi-
tion, the project will produce small quantities of copra, offals, hides
and skins and milk. From maturity in year 11 onwards the project will also
produce 5,200 cattle weaners per annum to contribute to the expansion of
the national herd or as inputs to cattle fattening enterprises and for draft.
The following table shows the main products in metric tons and compares
this incremental production with national production in 1974.



- 26 -
Incremental Project Production
1974 National           Full Development  Full Dev. as
Products          Production   Year 5      Year 77         % of 1974 Prod.
---------('000 tons)--------------
Pork Meat                345          12.7         12.7               3.7
Poultry Meat             110 /a        5.2          5.2               4.7
Eggs                     140 Ta        5.6          5.6               4.0
Beef                     100           0.7          1.0               1.0
Milk                      28           0.2          0.3               1.0
Copra                  1,703           5.0          8.4               0.5
Live Animals                -     ---------------number------------------------
Cattle weaners           n.a.      3,017        5,200                 n.a. /b
/a   Mission estimates.
/b   Not available, but probably less than 1%.
B. Markets and Marketing
4.02      The incremental production of the Project would be readily absorbed
on the domestic market at present prices. In all cases the incremental pro-
duction of livestock products at maturity (1987) is 40% or less than the
estimated unsatisfied demand for each product in 1974. Project incremental
copra production is a negligible proportion of total copra production and
will be readily absorbed by export markets without affecting prices. The
Philippine population is expected to grow at 2.8% per annum and per capita
real income at about 3.2% per annum through 1985. Income elasticity of
demand for meats and eggs are estimated to be close to unity and this
indicates, at constant prices, growth in demand of about 6% per annum.
At this rate of growth demand would almost double by Project maturity at
Year 11. In comparison, recent growth in domestic production of meat and
eggs has been between 5 and 6%. Project production will provide about a
quarter of the incremental demand for pig meat and just over half the
incremental demand for poultry meat and eggs. For beef, incremental Project
production is about 30% of incremental demand. Imports of meat, meat products
and eggs have ranged between US$2.2 million to US$8.9 million since 1969 and
can be expected to climb steadily if domestic production does not expand to
meet growing demand. Imports of dairy products have risen to over US$60 mil-
lion and Project dairy production will have negligible effect on these imports.
4.03      Marketing of Project production is not a problem.  Much of the
Project incremental meat production will occur in Southern Luzon to serve
the main consuming center of Greater Manila. Marketing channels in this
area are well developed and roads and transport facilities are adequate to
handle the incremental production. The expanded operations of Food Terminal
Incorporated (FTI), as more of its idle capacity is taken up, will provide
major additional handling and storage facilities for Greater Manila. The



- 27 -
marketing of increased production from outlying islands is less satisfactory
but again mT's involvement has already improved the situation marginally
and will have greater impact later. A number of private initiatives are
under consideration vhich together could improve transport facilities for
livestock and the present wide marketing margins are likely to promote
further investment in transport facilities. Thus the present traditional
system of marketing plus known and projected private sector improvements are
satisfactory for handling Project production.
4.04      Philippine imports of meats and eggs are historically less than
0.02% of world trade in these commodities and Project incremental production
would have a negligible effect on world trade and prices.
C. Producer Benefits
4.05      Incremental net income to the 3,050 Project producer families would
average US$2,210 per annum at full development with a range from US$410 to
US$6,300 (see Table next page).  The present incomes of these families covers
a wide range but it is estimated it would include about 1,280 families with
annual incomes of less than US$800. Net benefits to municipalities which
take up slaughterhouse loans would be about US$38,000 per annum at full
throughput. Producer benefits are summarized in Annex 21, Table 2. In all
cases, the models proposed as standard farm sub-loans are designed to allow
the sub-loan to be repaid from proceeds in a reasonable time and producer
benefits, after debts are fully recovered, are attractive. Rates of return
in all models are attractive to sub-borrowers and cashflows provide reason-
able margins for risk after debt service particularly when considered in
current terms.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Project is of high priority and supports the Government's
strategy for the livestock sub-sector. The Project has been designed mainly
to consolidate and expand DBP's successful but relatively small scale live-
stock credit program. DBP is now the main institution providing supervised
credit for livestock production and is making a valuable contribution to the
expansion of the sub-sector in keeping with Government's livestock policy.
The Project would continue the important institution building role of the
first project, particularly in the Livestock and Poultry Group of DBP and
in DBP's branches. The Project economic rate of return is estimated to be
about 25%. Unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 50% of its market cost
to reflect the annual average opportunity cost of this input in the rural
areas where sub-projects would be financed (unskilled labor costs are less
than 5% of total operating costs at project maturity in Year 11). Other
costs have been adjusted for financial transfers (import duties and taxes)
(Annex 22). Prices of inputs and outputs have been assumed to remain in
real terms at projected early 1976 levels. Output prices for the economic



- 28 -
analysis have been assumed to remain the same as present financial prices
since these are normally close to world prices and are consistent with Bank
price projections in constant terms. Only in the case of beef would the
Philippines possibly be able to import significant quantities at lower
prices than domestic costs of production, but Project beef production
(1,000 tons) is less than 5% of total Project meat, eggs and milk output
and does not reach this level until 1988.
5.02      Should the value of incremental production fall by 10% as a result
of a decrease in output real prices or a shortfall in physical production,
the economic rate of return would fall to 13%.  However, --inTview of the
projected domestic demand and supply situation (para 4.02) such a fall in
real prices is considered highly unlikely. Should the real price of pig
and poultry feed increase by 10%, for instance as a result of a 15% real
rise in the cost of imported ingredients, the economic rate of return would
fall to 18%. However, given the projected domestic demand growth for live-
stock products (6% p.a.) there is little risk that the Project will prove
financially or economically marginal, particularly since there is comparative-
ly little world trade in the products most in demand in the Philippines (pork
and poultry meat) which form the bulk of the Project output. The only
significant risk is that price control measures and rising costs may at
times create a temporarily unfavourable input/output price ratio which would
limit demand for livestock production credit. However, the Government and
DBP monitor input/output price relationships closely, and Bank supervision
missions routinely review this aspect.
5.03      Secondary benefits are substantial in the form of the wage employ-
ment created by the Project. The Project would directly create 1.4 million
man-days of on-farm and slaughterhouse employment annually at full develop-
ment, equivalent to about 5,800 full time jobs. However, some 26% of this
incremental labor would be in part time work and therefore employment would be
provided for more than 5,800 people. In addition, a large number of other
jobs would be indirectly created by the Project, inter alia for the production
of feedstuffs and for processing, transporting and marketing incremental pro-
duction. The average investment per job created (full time equivalent) amounts
to about US$6,900.
5.04      The Project would result in net foreign exchange savings of about
US$17 million a year at full development. This assumes incremental copra
exports of US$1.1 million a year and US$25 million of substitution of imports
of meat, meat preparations, eggs and milk. However, given present trends
in national production and consumption it is likely that the demand-domestic
supply gap at full development will still be at least equal to Project in-
cremental output. Project incremental imports of animal feed ingredients
and fertilizers would amount to about US$8 million a year at full develop-
ment. In addition, the pilot dairy component would help lay the foundations
of an expanded local dairy industry which could result in further substantial
foreign exchange savings.
5.05      Social benefits of the Project would be substantial since about 80%
of total direct and indirect beneficiaries (about 40% of sub-borrowers and
most wage earners) would be within the target rural poverty group with per



- 29 -
capita incomes of less than US$140. This estimate is based on experience
under the first project regarding categories of sub-loan applicants and the
assumption that the agricultural employment created (predominantly on pig
and poultry farms or as cowboys) is chiefly of a kind that attracts only
the unemployed or greatly under-employed. Moreover, the Project will make
a significant contribution to expanding domestic production of livestock
products, thus keeping price rises within reasonable limits. The Project
would help to maintain animal protein intake of the poorer people, since
the diet of these people includes significant quantities of animal protein
of the cheaper kinds.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6,01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
Mi) Government would:
(a)  relend US$19.8 milion of the proceeds of the
loan to DBP on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para 3.22);
(b)  within six months of Loan signing, engage four short
term consultants -acceptable to the Bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.14);
Cc) within 12 months of Loan signing submit to the Bank
for review and co mment the terms of reference for the
applied investigational work into pig and poultry
nutrition, and following Bank review would provide
grant funds of not less than US$150,000 equivalent,
or such other amount to be agreed with the Bank, for
the work to be carried out (para 3.16);
(d)  submit full details of the feed quality control
program to the Bank for review and comment before
plans are finalized and expenditures on the feed
laboratory are incurred (para 3.13);
(it) DBP would:
(a) concentrate its efforts to committing funds in loca-
tions which take into account sound environmental,
technical and financial criteria (para 3.03);
(b)  commit no more than US$3 million (of which no more than
US$500,000 may be for pig and poultry sub-loans) of the
Loan funds to financing sub-loans which exceed US$100,000
equivalent (taken together with any outstanding balance
on previous DBP livestock loans) (para 3.04);



- 30 -
(c) engage two specialists acceptable to the Bank on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank for
the 12 month period beginning not later than
December 1, 1976, or such other period to be agreed
with the Bank (para 3.14);
(d) engage consultants acceptable to the Bank, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to design
model slaughterhouses acceptable to the Bank, and use
these models as the basis for all slaughterhouse sub-
loans (para 3.14);
(e) train or retrain an adequate number of livestock
technicians to support the livestock lending program
(para 3.15);
(f) annually monitor in a manner acceptable to the Bank
a randomly selected sample of sub-loans (financed
under both this Project and the first livestock Project)
and submit the monitoring report to the Bank together
with the annual reports (para 3.25);
(g) use the standard sub-loan agreement for farm sub-loans
approved by the Bank under Loan 823-PH and not alter
it materially without prior consultation with the Bank
(para 3.26);
(h) apply sub-loan interest rates and terms acceptable to
the Bank and submit to the Bank for prior approval all
sub-loan applications which, together with any out-
standing balance on previous DBP livestock loans
financed from Bank funds, exceed the equivalent of
US$200,000 (paras 3.26-3.28);
(i) maintain separate Project accounts and following an
independent audit acceptable to the Bank, submit these
to the Bank within three months after the close of each
fiscal year and submit quarterly reports on the Project
in a form acceptable to the Bank (para 3.29).
6.02      As a condition of effectiveness the Government would cause BAI and
DBP to enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Bank to provide for in-
creased assistance by BAI to DBP's livestock borrowers (par& 3.17).
6.03      The proposed Project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$20.5 mil-
lion, with a 14-1/2 year maturity including a grace period of 5-1/2 years.
February 20, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and the Livestock Sub-Sector
I. General
1.        The Republic of the Philippines is situated in the tropics between
latitudes 423' and 2125'N. The archipelago extends over a distance of
1,600 km from north to south and comprises more than 7,100 islands. Eleven
islands account for 96% of the total land area.
Climate
2.        The Philippines enjoys a tropical maritime climate, characterized
by high temperatures, humidity and rainfall. Mean annual temperatures, range
between 21C (70F) in the coolest month (January) to 29C (85F) in the hot-
test month (May). Rainfall is the most important climatic variable and ranges
from 966 mm (38 in) in the south to 5,530 mm (218 in) in the highlands of Luzon.
Rainfall is uniform from year to year, with anr average variation between years
of 14%. Typhoons occur most frequently in the northern part of the country.
The climate can be classified most simply into four main categories, based on
rainfall distribution throughout the year. The distribution of these categor-
ies is shown on the left of Map No. IBRD 10133, and the corresponding average
monthly precipitation is given on Chart 6160. A more recent classification
distinguishes seven categories of climate as shown on the right of Map 10133.
Humidity is high throughout the year. Regional differences in the occurrence
of seasonal rainfall and typhoons have a considerable bearing on the season-
ality of production and types of crops that can be grown in different parts.
Climatically, the Philippines has a high potential for crop and forage
production.
3.        The environment is well suited to pig and poultry raising.  Cattle
with Bos indicus blood adapt well and there are no major climatic restric-
tions on the development of beef cattle farming.
Soils and Vegetation
4.        Soils are mostly free draining, with medium to low fertility
levels. In general, there is a marked response to both phosphorous and
nitrogen applications but little response to potash. Ph is low on the
shale and sandstone derived soils (4.8 to 5.6) but higher on the lime-
stone and volcanic tuff (6.2 to 6.7).
5.        The main variations in vegetation are due to the combined effects
of altitude, rainfall and the biotic factor. The original forest situated
from sea level to 700 m altitude is formed by numerous species of large



ANNEX 1
Page 2
trees with high timber value. At about 700 m, the forest becomes open
without much undercover vegetation. After the primary forest is cut,
shifting cultivation is practiced on the uplands, and burning and crop-
ping lead to a final reasonably stable grassland of low productivity. In
isolated areas, the legumes Centrosema and Pueraria occur naturally.
Land Use
6.        The Philippines has approximately 30 million ha of land, dis-
tributed in 1971 in the following way:
Million ha
Productive forest                      14.1
Unproductive forest                     1.8
Cultivated and plantations              9.8
open land                               2.6
Managed pasture                         0.8
Harsh and small water                   0.2
Urban and others                        0.7
Total                             30.0
7.        This classification may not represent optimum use of land for
agriculture since it largely reflects the Government bureau under which land
is administered and controlled. This is particularly true of forest, open
land and managed pasture categories (almost entirely stateowned), where
sufficient reconnaissance information is not available for accurate classi-
fication. In many areas, the land use pattern is changing due to population
pressure, with land classified as forest, open land and managed pasture
being taken up by small farmers. In such areas extensive livestock enterprises
have only a limited future and further investments are not justified. In
other large areas, hill cattle is the only development likely in the fore-
seeable future.
Food and Commercial Crops
8.        About 10 million hectares classified as cultivated and plantations
are growing a wide range of food and commercial crops (Table 1 and 2). The
food crops are rice (3.4 million ha), corn (2.8), roots, fruits and other
crops (0.9); and commercial crops are coconuts (2.2), sugarcane (0.5), abaca,
tobacco, rubber and others (0.3).
Economic Importance
9.        Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy in terms
of employment and export earnings. In 1973, agriculture, forestry, fishing
and hunting provided work for about 53% of the total labor force. Over the
period 1972-74, agriculture contributed about 35% of GNP. Food crops con-
tributed 12%; livestock and poultry, 6%; commercial export crops, 9%; fish-
eries, 4Z, and miscellaneous, 4%.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Out of total exports, amounting to US$2,722 million in 1974,
agricultural products contributed US$1,562, i.e., 57%. Main export
items include sugar, coconut and forest products, contributing 28Z,
22.4% and 9%, respectively, of export value.
11.       In 1974, total imports amounted to US$3,143 million FOB.  Imported
agricultural products accounted for US$356 million (11.3%), made up of grains
and preparations (US$155 million, mostly wheat, milled rice, shelled corn and
flours), dairy products (US$74.5 m), raw cotton (US$34.3 m), feedstuff (US$26
m), fruit and vegetables (US$5.8 m), meat and meat preparations (US$4.5 m)
(Table 3).
II. The Livestock Sub-Sector
12.       During the period 1972-74, the Livestock sub-sector accounted for
17 to 20% of the total value added by agriculture.
Animal Population and Distribution
13.       In the Philippines, there are about 9.7 million hogs, 100 to 110
million poultry, 2.2 million beef cattle and 5 million buffaloes (Carabaos)
(Table 4). The pig population is spread throughout the islands and a large
proportion of them are raised as scavengers and slaughtered-in the backyard
for home consumption or sale on the local market. However, commercial pig-
geries have expanded very fast in the last few years, particularly in Central
Luzon around Manila and in South Cotabato Province. The poultry industry is
also heavily concentrated around Manila, near the feed mills, but about 40%
of birds are on non-farm operations. Southern Tagalog accounts for 26% of
on-farm chicken, Central Luzon for 15%, Southern Mindanao for 19% and the
Western Visayas for 8%. Eightly-two percent of the cattle and carabao are
equally distributed between the two largest islands of Luzon and Mindanao
with the Visayas accounting for the balance.
Production Systems
Cattle and Carabao
'4.       Carabaos which represent about 70% of the ruminant population are
used for draft in rice paddies. They are owned mostly by small farmers with
one or two head and traditionally they are fed on green feed from roadsides
and crop residues, mainly rice straw. They are slaughtered for meat at the
end of their useful working life and carabao beef account for 60-70% of all
beef consumed in the country. Beef cattle (not including carabaos) are
produced under four systems: (i) Hill beef farming, the traditional source
of feeder cattle, is essentially a cattle breeding enterprise based on low
quality natural pastures (mostly in Masbate, Mindoro, Northern Mindanao and
the Cagayan Valley of Luzon). Possibly 12% of the national feed herd is run
under this system. (ii) Backyard fattening of feed cattle is practiced by
villages and provides the families involved with appreciable additional in-
come. This type of activity is carried out mainly in Central Luzon and
Southern Tagalog and accounts for more than 75% of non-carabao beef pro-
duced in the country. (iii) Grazing under coconut. Although about 0.8



ANNEX 1
Page 4
million ha are presently grazed (10-13% of cattle) very little is under
improved pasture. The main coconut beef areas are in Northern and Eastern
Mindanao. (iv) There are a few feedlot operations using by-products of the
banana industry (in Mindanao) and trials, for which technical assistance was
provided under the first livestock development project, are underway in Negros
on the use of by-products of the sugar industry.
15.       There are few dairy-type animals in the Philippines.  They are
unofficially estimated at about 48,000 head, comprising 29,000 carabaos,
12,000 cows and 7,000 goats in 1971. Almost all the milk and dairy prod-
ucts consumed in the country are imported or filled and reconstituted from
imported ingredients. There are only about 7 commercial dairy farms in the
vicinity of the main large cities, and these produce most of the limited
domestic fresh milk output.
Pigs
16.       About 98% of the pigs are produced from herds of less than 50 head.
The raising of pigs is a well developed traditional occupation among small
farmers and villagers and, although individual enterprises are small (most
often 5 to 10 sows) there is considerable experience in modern pig handling
and management. On-farm mixing of feed is widely practiced from the broad
range of low cost by-products available in the Philippines. There are a
few very large pig operations in the Manila area and South Cotabato.
Poultry
17.       In 1969, it was estimated that 90% of the poultry were on farms
with less than 500 birds. This pattern does not appear to have signifi-
cantly changed since then. About 3 million households keep poultry, of
which 1.2 million are non-farm units raising native birds for home consump-
tion and sale of the surplus on the local market. About 15% of the eggs
and 60% of the poultry meat consumed in the country are produced by small
backyard village owners. Modern integrated poultry farming is limited to
a small number of farms with 30,000 to 100,000 broilers or layers that
produce about 10% of total eggs and broilers. Most commercial farms,
however, have flocks ranging from a few hundred to several thousand birds.
The trend among the larger broiler products is for contract growing with
one of the big five feed miUing companies (known as integrators) which
supply chicks, feed and some veterinary supplies, while the producer under-
takes to provide housing, labor and m8nagement and sells broilers at eight
weeks of age to the integrator. The feedmillers own and operate processing
plants and usually sell broilers wholesale to supermarkets and other outlets.
At the present time, integrated operations, almost entirely located in the
Manila area, produce about 60-70% of the poultry feed, 95% of the chicks
and control about 70% of the broiler production. The development of con-
tract growing in broiler production has been rapid during the last few
years, particularly among medium and large producers who need to rely on
regular supplies of feed and chicks in large quantities as well as on
secure outlets for large batches of broilers. Little choice is left to
them as integrators tend to give preference to their own contract growers



ANNEX 1
Page 5
in time of feed shortage and only the integrators have the processing facil-
ities and regular markets for large quantities of broilers. Contracts are
consequently biased in favor of the integrators. Small producers, however,
can more easily get their feed and chicks from different sources and market
their output themselves since they deal with small quantities, and there-
fore remain independent from integrators.
Institutions
18. - - The Department of Agriculture, mainly through the Bureau of
Animal Industry (BAI), is primarily responsible for the administration of
the livestock sub-sector. The Department of Natural Resources also has an
important role in the sub-sector, since Pasture Lease Agreements for hill
land are administered by it under the Forestry Reform Code. The BAI provides
veterinary services and maintains breeding stations, stock farms and artifi-
cial insemination centers. The BAI is a large organization with some 2,200
technicians but the quality and effectiveness of its services is generally
poor. This is the result of staffing problems, poor service conditions, and
inadequate incentives for field travel. The Government is aware of the
present problems of the BAI, but at the time of appraisal it was agreed
with Government that these problems should not be resolved in isolation
for this bureau alone since many of BAI's problems are common to other
agencies and would have been more effectively addressed in an agricul-
tural services project which was then under consideration. Subsequently
the Government has decided that the agricultural services project is pre-
mature and is now expected to request some assistance for BAI under the
upcoming rural credit and education projects. Consequently the proposed
Project limits direct involvement of BAI to the provision of technical
services according to a new coordination agreement to be negotiated with
DBP (para 3.17). Within the Department of Agriculture there are four other
agencies which are closely concerned with the sub-sector. These are the
National Grains Authority (controls import and distribution of all grains,
including feedgrains); the National Food and Agricultural Council (coordinates
and implements all Government food self-sufficiency programs); the National
Meat Inspection Commission (regulates slaughterhouses and meat standards);
and the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (which together with BAI supplies
extension advise to livestock farmers). Livestock industry research is mainly
the responsibility of the BAI but is also carried out by a number of other
agencies. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) in the Department
of Agriculture provides data and analyses for planning and policy purposes
and disseminates price and market information. The University of the Philippines
College of Agricultural (UPCA) at Los Banos and the College of Veterinary
Medicine conduct the main basic research. The UPCA's Animal Husbandry
Department is capable and has well-trained staff. Other universities and
colleges have livestock research programs. The Bureau of Forestry in the
Department of Natural Resources conduct range management trials, while
Central Mindanao University, the BAI and UPCA are other important centers
of pasture improvement work. The agricultural research program as a whole
is coordinated by the Philippine Council for Agricultural Research, which
also has direct control of all Government funded research.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Agricultural Credit
19.       Institutional sources supply probably about a third of the credit
used for agricultural production but in real terms the amount available
has not changed significantly since the late 1960s. This has partly been
the result of Government policy which formerly channelled financial resources
more towards industrial development. In addition there were inadequate
institutions serving agriculture and credit terms (mainly collateral require-
ments) have not in general given the predominant small farmers, particularly
tenant farmers, access to institutional credit. Government strategy to
overcome these constraints focuses on the rapid expansion of private rural
banks with supervision and subsidized funds from the Central Bank. There
are now over 700 rural banks with assets of p2.1 billion (US$280 million)
and they have provided three quarters of the increased institutional credit
for agriculture since 1965. Most of the rural banks lending is for short
term production credit but they also provide medium term finance for machinery
and equipment and they have increasingly financed small farmers. The
Philippine National Bank is also an important but declining source of credit
for agriculture, accounting for 28% of the outstanding institutional loans
to agriculture. It provides mostly short term production credit and has
financed half the loans in the national rice and corn programs (Masagana 99
and Masaganang Maisan respectively). Some 30 private commercial banks
provide about 27% of institutional agricultural credit. In order to halt
the relative decline in the proportion of funds from this source going to
agriculture, a Central Bank directive requires that a minimum of 25% of all
loanable funds of the commercial banks go to agriculture. The 32 private
development banks (total assets of f300 million) are a further important
source of agricultural credit. They lend long term funds for small scale
enterprises and about half their loans are for agriculture. DBP is an
expanding source of agricultural credit (in 1974 holding about 122 of insti-
tutional loans outstanding to agriculture), although its operations are
dominated by industrial lending (78% of total approvals compared with 8%
for agriculture). Ceiling interest rates in the Philippines have been fixed
since 1970 by the Monetary Board at 12% for loans secured by land and 14%
for loans secured by other forms of collateral. The 12% and 14% rates were
negative real rates of interest during the period of high inflation (1970-1974)
but with inflation now expected to stabilize at about 10%, a real positive
interest rate will be restored.
Government Policies
20.       Under the last Agricultural Development Plan (1972-75), the Gov-
ernment put special emphasis on livestock development. The Plan proposed
to meet effective demand for meat and reduce the gap between meat consump-
tion and nutritional requirements by 1975 and for eggs to increase the



ANNEX 1
Page 7
percentage of adequacy from an estimated 58% to 63% 1/. Production targets
were as follows:
Targeted Annual Rates of Increase for the Period 1972-75 (Percent)
Production   Animal Population im)
Chicken (broilers)                 8.2              6.3
Pork/Hogs                           8.0            12.0
Beef/Cattle                        6.0              3.6
Beef/Carabaos                       6.9             3.5
Total Meat                    7.6
Eggs                                7.3
The Plan was to cost from f 135 m the first year up to l 275 m in the last
year.  t 16 m to t 18 m would be provided each year by the Government out
of its revenue and tthe remainder in the form of credit to producers with
rural banks, the Agricultural Credit Administration, the Philippine National
Bank and the Food Terminal Inc. (servicing short term commodity and market-
iug loans) and DBP (concentrating on long term development credit). Swine
production was given priority with 50-60% of all funds, with 10-20% going
to poultry and the rest to cattle production. Measures proposed to achieve
these goals were the upgrading of the existing extension, animal health and
artificial insemination services and-BAI research activities. Support was
also to be given to feedgrain production by the implementation of a t 21
million feedgrain production program by the National Food and Agricultural
Council, the Bureau of Plant Industry and the Agricultural Credit Administra-
tion. This was to aim at replacing in the long term the high priced imported
feed ingredients by domestic production of yellow corn, sorghum and soyabeans.
Similarly increases in fishmeal production was expected from a separate pro-
gram to expand fish production. The only provision for dairying was for
studies on the feasibility of a milk production and collection scheme to
be developed for carabao milk.
21.       Conflicting data makes accurate assessment of the performance of
the Plan very difficult. Data on increases in animal population 2/ (8.5%
annually from 1970 to 1975 for hogs, 6% for cattle and 2.6% for carabaos)
are in conflict with the stagnant, but unreliable, official estimates of
1/   Projected effective demand was based on income elasticities of demand of
1.1 for meat and 1.0 for eggs, annual rates of increase of real income
per capita per year of 2.5%, and 3.2% to 3.5% annual population growth.
Nutritional requirements were calculated on the basis of a recommended
allovance of 18.2 kg of meat per capita per year and 4.3 kg of eggs.
2/   Estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) on the
basis of farm surveys.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
slaughter and meat production. 1/ The mission's general impression, how-
ever, is that the country was fairly successful in meeting demand for pigs
and poultry, but that beef production lagged behind requirements.
22.       The pork and poultry industries respond well to changes in demand
because investment in stock and infrastructure can be rapidly scaled up or
down without great losses of efficiency and because returns on investments
are very quick. The relative stagnation of the beef cattle industry can
be attributed to higher production costs and slow returns, but also to land
use conflicts and poor management in hill farming areas which are the main
source of feeder cattle; insufficiently organized marketing structures,
and on small farms, competition for feed between cattle and carabao. This
inelastic supply has resulted in increased imports in order to meet the fast
growing demand for beef meat from the medium/high income groups and the
tourist industry.
23.       The livestock sub-sector is on the list of the Investment Priori-
ties Plan of the Board of Investments, which entitles investors to a series
of incentives (mainly tax deductions, duty-free imports of machinery and
equipment, freedom of repatriation of profits for foreign companies and
priority in the allocation of foreign exchange). These concessions apply
so long as additional production generated by such investments remains
inferior to a yearly revised figure reflecting the likely demand-supply
gap and export potentials (called "measured capacity"). For 1975, live-
stock industry measured capacities are as follows:
Measured Capacity
Measured   1974 Production       as % of 1974
Capacitj       Estimates          Production
Beef (MTDW*)               43,000          100,000               43
Pork (MTDW)                 29,936        345,000                 9
Poultry Meat (MTDW)         32,097         110,000 /a            29
Eggs (MT**)                30,097          140,000 1;            22
Chicks (no.)            3,762,000           n.a.                n.a.
/a   1972 NEDA estimates.
*    MTDW - Metric Tons Dress Weight.
**   MT - Metric Tons.
These estimates of demand appear reasonable and indicate that production is
far from meeting requirements, particularly for beef.
1/   BAEcon estimates of meat production are based on the number of animals
slaughtered on-farm (from the above mentioned surveys), and those
slaughtered in abattoris where the Bureau of Animal Industry has a
meat inspection service, adjusted by an estimate of non-farm non-
registered slaughterings.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
24.       The Government is currently preparing a new livestock develop-
ment program. The final report is not yet available, but it appears
that emphasis will be put on feedstuff production in order to allow for
continued expansion of swine and poultry industries without having to rely
too much on feed imports. Pork and poultry meat will continue to be given
priority with the objective of supplying reasonably priced meat to low and
medium income groups. It is expected that the development of the beef
industry will concentrate on low cost grazing systems, and smallholder
backyard stall feeding systems as proposed in the National Beef/Carabeef
Development Program which was published in November, 1975 (Annex 3, paras 23
and 24). Improvement of the marketing system to guarantee higher farmgate
prices will also be important.






PHILIPPINES
CLIMATIC REGIONS
120-                                                125-                                                                  120'                                                 125-
e *S                                                                                               20'-                                                                                       NEW   SYSTEM                        20-
a    A                 ORIGINAL SYSTEM                                                                                                                             (Huke 1972)
 0 fie,;>t(Hainsworth &  Moyer 1945)                                                                                 5     0                                WITH LE.SSTHAN . OF RAINFALL
-                           ~~~~~~~~~~Aporri                                                                     .RS,/,4Aporfi                                                             MNI
EL*VS                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERMEDIATE LOW 555 DRY SEASON; 4
*n gS X | i NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRY SESN EWINTER                      A N DtO"t   S P I . W E..T ..
DRY WINTER AND SP"ING, WET ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        /                                             MONTHS WITH LESS THAW 2A" OF RAIN.
SUMMER AND FALL                                                                                                              FALLMPET MONTH.
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                   O '   DA   SE SO   OF    I T   3                                         _"                                                    R   LO   _  wS U Mi   DR ^Y    SE ASON ;DPDQ QNE I   TO    3  . _N  T"   * _ 
M ONTHS                                                                                                                      WITH LESS THA 2AM OF RAINFALL PER D MOTH.
IL  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O R ESN'  SGNEDWNE                                                                                                                                         HORT HIOH SUN DRY SEASON; I TO 3 MONITHS
AN DO SO  P ON            I                                                                                                  WITH LESS THAN 2AD OF RAINFALL PER
O7   RAINALL _tMONTH
ALL MONTHS WMT 2A~ OR MORE RAINFALL;
U    ~~~~.)                                                          No .RY SEASO AND No PROOUNCED                                                                                                WETTEST LOW SLN MAONTH WITH AT LEAST 3
MAXIMLAIM RAINY SIEASON                                                                                                      TIMES THU RAINFALL OF ORVEST HIGH SUN
/~~~~Q x,b                 <                                                                                           f/>> 5v/25eaW- 
ALL IOTHE WITH 2A OR MORE RAINFALL
WETYISET IGHSUN MONTH WTHAT LEAST
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~THREE TIMES TE RMAINFALL OF ONVEST
O 50 tOO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~150  't                                                                                                                          \_   LOW SM> ISo 200  W715'-
<                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALL MONTHS WIIW 2A1 OR AWNS RAINFALL.
) WOTTM  MDNTH HAS LESS THAN 3 TEH                                                                                                                                                                                    S
THE RtAINFALL OF THE ORYEST MONMTH.
E-               0                                                                    C' ,-
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
z   cr ?
PuFto Princesa                                                                                                                to,...  Pncs
SuIu  SeaS                                                                                                                             Sea                                       Q
50s   100    1.50    200 _0                                                                                                  so    10      ISO    N00
I             I      I                                                                                 "           I..           A       II
NfIES                                                                                                                     MILES
0       to       200     300                                                                                                      l        200     100
c.         KILOMETERS                                               DEa ILOMASTERS
ml-
cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ w~~~~~~~c
MALAYSIAaobo                                                                                                               MALCAYSsIAe 
175,  5                                                                            123'                                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 1.






PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONTHLY PRECIPITATION ACCORDING TO TYPE OF CLIMATE
FIRST TYPE                                            SECOND TYPE
Inches                                                Inches
25                                          m.m.      25                                           m.m.
600                                                   600
20                                          500        20                                          500
15                                          400        15                                          400
77       ~300                                                    300
10                                                    10
~~~~~~ ~~~~~200                                                           -           200
5                                                      5         4 
100                             -o100
zq 7          0        tj >              0         C                                 -  -  -     0
Za  cY me m L U   >          ,- Ic >  U                z  m  w  m        w     0   *- 1 X  >  u
_  -     <                                                                           0 ,   in   ~E s_  
THIRD TYPE                                             FOURTH TYPE
Inches                                                Inches
M.m.                                                   m.m.
25                                           600       25                                           600
20                                          500        20                                           500
15                                          400        IS                                          400
10  1         2300     10 01                 XT                    . 2300
o% oo' o  oo0o  oo o200                                                        30 0
5 _ ~~~~~~Doo   :oo                           loo oo oo  n5\\>\\\\..\1n
I 0o                        ooc       oo o  owv\ \ \. \       v
000000000 00)00)0
~~~~~=(o ooc ooo ooc zo oc zo o \ \s \ c\    
00    00       000000 00 00 00 00 )0 I 0'0            5
00   0OOIOO OO OO OOgOC DC00 0 0C  OC OC                  \n 0\                                      0_
v                                  z                    ,                               O Ze tU   o> rL  >  U
w             Z ^5  t  ,DD       ) o z a          <  LLJ    CL      Z         W          R  - 6160
IBRD - 6160






; ~ L-'                                                  PHILIPPINES
< -u
SEC0OD LIVESTOCK DEViLOPMENT PROJECT
(D O
'Agricultural Land lUtilization (Crop Area Harvested) by Main  Crops, 1968 to 1973-'
\C' CD                                                                                                       51/
-t'-0                                            1968      l0'69      1970       1971      1972       1973-      974-
CD
2  Food Crops                                  6,401      6,440      6,4o6      6,345     6,561      6,j45       7,123
Palay (rough rice)                      3,301      3,332      3,113     3,113      3,246      3,112       3,437
Corn (shelled)                          2,24d      2.256      2,420      2,392     2,432      2,325       2,763
Fruits and Nuts (except citrus)           376V/      368        380        361       385        389         351
Citrus                                      26        25         21         19         19        19          19
Rootcrops                                  250       254        252        246       259        266         314
Vegetables (except onions & potatoes)    46           49         51         46         5z        54          -
Onions                                                          7          8                    8          69
Irish Potatoes                               3         3          3          3          4         3          -
Beans & Peas                               148         45        504        49         45        47          46/
Coffee                                      49        52         54         54         55        61          -
Peanuts (unshelled)                         30        31         32         33         33        33          37
All other food crops                        11        11         12         13         lb        17          18
Conmmrcial Crops                            2,1405    2.1479     2,540      2.752      2,821     2,868       2,994
Coconu ,                                1.O00      1,846      1,884      2.049     e,126      2,133       2,205
Sugarcar.e                                 318        4'        366        442       441        455         491
Abaca                                      71       173        173        155       145        163         7u
Tobauco                                     94        89         87         76         78        84         n/a
Total Area Cropped
1/  Crop year is July 1 to June 30.
2/ Revised estimates.
3/ Less than 0.1 thousand ha.
1/  Including soyabeans
:/  Preliminary estimates
/  Including - Mongo (37) and Soyabeans (3)
Source:  Bureau of Agricultural Econonic-



zw MPHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(D 
C-                               Agricultural Production by Main Crops - 1969 to 1973
rA                                              (Thoand Metric Tons)
1968     1969       1970      1971      1972        1973
Ce  Food Crops                                        9,294     9,346    10,670    10,774    10,625      9,890
Palay (rough rice)                             4,561     4,445     5,233     5,343     5,100       4,415
Corn (shelled)                                 1,619     1,733      2,008     2,005     2,013      1,831
Fruits & Nuts (except citrus)                  1,371Y   1,373      1,570     1,663     1,739      1,803
Citrus                                            78        75        71        63        66         64
Rootcrops                                      1,305     1,338     1,316     1,221     1,218      1,221
Vegetables (except onions and potatoes)          201       215       255       245       240         272
Onions                                            15.        15       31        33        31          38
Irish Potatoes                                    12-       18        20        22         25        23
Beans and Peas                                    221/      20        23        24        24          26
Coffee                                            44        44        49         50       52          51
Peanuts (unshelled)                               15        15        17        19        19         18
All other food crops                              46        49        68        79         87      - 113
Conmercial Crops                                  3,943     3,914     4,531     4,848     4,562       5,202
Copra                                          1,542      1,516V/  1,656     1,574      1,703      1,698
Desiccated Coconut                                51i2:     44        70       105       110          99
Sugar                                          1,658     1,663     1,987      2,109    1,870       2,305
Molasses                                         503        504      608        871       683        886
Abaca                                            103       106       122       105       110        119
Tobacco                                           65        57        61        56        57          65
Total Production                                 13,237    13,259    15,201    15,621    15,187     15,092
1/  Revised estimates.              .                                                                                 - 
90urce: Bureau of Agricultural Economics



o 1-.
. '0
PHIILIPPINES
40
SECOND LIVESTOCK IEVELOIPENT PROJECT
Vol.me and Value of imports of Livesteck Products - 1969-1974
(~-~~_-- -- --- ---------olm-------- V    ------- --------------- ---------) _ -_---------------------_--_-_---Value----70-- FB----------- -----_---------------Vau---
1969         1970         1971         1972          1973         1974         1969         1970         1911          1972         1973         1974         CIF 1974
---------------------Numbers-----------------------------------------                 ------------(US $ '000)----------------------_ ---------
A.    Live Anlmels                                                                                                                           121          117           24             8          253          43           698
1. Cattle                                                  425          130            31           -            15          224         1l3            109           16           _            14          236           428
2.  Sheep and C0ot,                                         18             2            6           -            20             3            3          ,,.            1            8           .. . 
3.  Swine                                                   13           40            21           22        1,312          643             4            7            7           -           239           197          269
4.  Other                                                2,003          476            94           31           -                           I            I           -
 --------------Metric Tans---------------
B.    Meat and Meat Preparationa                          iT            6.220                      _____ ons4------------98  3,90U        8,833         5.177        S,tUO        3.916        2,366        4,549         5,161
1.  Meat,  f:esh, chilled  -r fro.en                     3,917        2,347        3 433         2,901        1.85         3.782        2,784        2.116         2,30         1919         2,108        4.377        4,975
a.  -eat of Cattle                                2,403         1,616        1,46         1,074          634        2,260         2,345        1,870        1,716        1.374         1,495        3,279        3,633
b.  neat of sheep or lomb                            342          184          135          191            98           51          116           75            57           61           83           91            99
c.  meat of swine                                   436           248        1,127        1,117          864         1,057          139           92          350        3,480           380          667          843
d.  other                                            736          299          705          519           248           41          184           79           183          136          150          340          400
2.  Meat- dried, salted, smlsked or cooked                  26             5          ...            1             1            1           14            3            1                       ...             2            2
3.  Meae-   canned and meat preparation6                 7.819        3.868         3,958        Z.003           43          121        6.035         3.058        3.293        1.995           58          173           184
a.  corned beef                                   6,824         3,661        3,844        1,917            20           73        5,421        2,713        2,904        1.728            29           76           84
b.  other                                            995          207          114           86            23           48          614          345          387           267           29           94          100
C.    Dairy Productn and Eggs                                                                                                            42,353        32.471       40220        47607        45,198       74.464        81,94
1.  Milk and Cream                                     123,184       90,346       82.828        70,552       56.280       65,974       37.184       2_7811       31,743        37.970       35.565       60,484       66_346
a.  dry skim                                     28,439       26,625        28,851       46,689       37,238       46,487         7,808        6,609        8,746       22,960       20,140        37,473       40,678
b.  evaporeted                                   53,551       31,448        25,308        8,975        2,460             1       13,443        7,681        6,773        2.897           770            1 l
-.  conden.ed                                     8,335         6,566        4,731          804            -            -         2,288        1,864        1,503           302           -            -            -
d.  powdered                                     22,793        16,134       16,459        8,129        9,016        12,095       10.413        8,878       12,151        9,056       10,601        17,225       19,707
e.  other                                        10,066         9,573        7,479        5,955        7,566         7,391        3,232        2,779        2,570        2,755        4,054         5,784        5,960
2.  B.rcer aod Bsot-ceryat                               3'1l9        4,469         6.029        4.485        4,391        3,823        2.o55         2,402        4.984        4,936        4.718        5385          5 77
3.  Cheese and Card                                      3,731        3.708        4,46          2.989        3,942        3.981        1.763         1.402        2,Z60        2.102        Z.504        4.074
4.  Eggs01/                                                   9           88           14            7            4             4           26           29           20           15           18            13           14
5.  Other 2/                                               817          886         1,555        2.914        2,7Z8        3,959          751          0i27       1.213         Z.584        2.393        4,52          ,234
TOTAL LIVESTOCK PROOUCTS                                                                                                  51.307       37,765       45.844        51,531       47.617        9.447       87.804
0ot nS the oh.ll - liqid, fr-.en or dried.
-    1ntl-&ding honey - nostly   altted compounds and  ixtares.
Soure - Bure=u of the Censun and Statistics - Foreign Trade St.atistic  of the PhilipPines



PHfIIPPINES
0 tSECOND LIVESTOCK DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Lives took and Poultry Popul1ation an of January 1, 1973
('00 head)
Livestock                                       Poultry-"
Region_-                                                                                     _
Carabao           Cattle          Hog /           Goat            Chicken          Duck
PHILIPPINES             4,937            2,099          8,627           1,248            4,965            2,906
Ilocos                            151               72             192              37             476               23
Cagayan Valley                    446               96           1,012              18           1,947              112
Central Luzon                     540              220           1s037            231            7,954              300
Southern Tagalog                  486              303           1,360            123           13,053              250
Bicol                             445              186             7145            67            2,303              504
Western Viaayas                   648              157             923            167            4,142               68
Central Visayas                   363              176             884             58            4,248               89
Eastern ViJayas                   404               17           1,004               8           2,074              423
Western Mindanao                  251              181             130             56            2,108               30
Northern Mindanao                 343              189             816             59            2,243              275
Southern M4indanao                860              504             526            427            9,416              831
1/ Population on-fanm only
Source: Department of Agriculture, Bureau of Agriculture Economics:



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig and Poultry Production
A. Pig Production
The National Herd and Demand
1.        The national pig herd in 1975 has been estimated at about 9.7
million head, and estimates of the slaughtering figure in 1974 range from
6.5 to 7.5 million. All the major breeds are represented and a small num-
ber of boars are imported annually from New Zealand, Australia and the
U.S.A. These figures are in rough agreement with estimates of pork pro-
duction and consumption for 1974 - 350,000 tons and 8.3 kg/head. Assuming
that per capita consumption remains constant and population grows at 2.8% per
annum, a conservative estimate of additional annual demand for pork would
be about 9,300 tons, which is equivalent to about 160,000 additional pigs
(or the production from about 23,300 sows).
2.        DBP is currently making about 2,000 piggery loans per year and
financing about 7,500 sows. The figure represents about 34% of the annual
growth in the sow numbers required to meet expected demand for pig meat if
per capita consumption remains unchanged and the population growth rate
remains constant. The proposed project would finance the purchase of an
average of 10 sows each for about 616 pig farmers per year, a total of
6,160 sows/year or about 80% of DBP's current financing and about 26% of
the required minimum annual growth in sow numbers based on the assumptions
above.
The First Livestock Development Project
3.        The main objective of the first livestock development project
(appraised in 1971) was to channel credit, coupled with technical serv-
ices, to smaller producers in the hope that, by demonstrating the ability
of this class of farmer to produce agricultural commodities, a fundamental
change would take place in official thinking. At that time, many people
in the Philippines assumed that "bigness" and economic efficiency were
synonymous and that small producers were generally incapable of efficient
production. The first project has been successful in this respect, judging
from the average size and type of loans under the project and the size and
type of loans made by the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) from
its own resources. For example, 605 loans, averaging 11 sows per loan,
were made under the project from April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975, while



ANNEX 2
Page 2
DBP financed a total of about 2,300 piggery loano (including project loans)
averaging about four sows per loan. Since 1973 it has been DBP's policy to
charge only 9% interest for loans of less than V 5,000 (compared with 12%
for DBP/IBRD loans) and this has maintained a higher average size for loans
under the first project than would be the case if uniform interest rates were
charged.
Husbandry
4.        The Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates that approximately
98% of the pigs are produced from herds of less than 50 head. The remainder
are on large farms, recently developed and varying enormously in production
efficiency. In general, breeding and fattening are combined, but there is
some feeding of purchased weaners, particularly by small backyard producers.
The raising of pigs is a well developed traditional occupation among Filipino
small farmers and villagers, and although individual enterprises are small,
there is considerable experience in pig handling and management. Many of
the small to medium sized producers are efficient and provide good housing,
management and hygiene.
5.        The year round hot humid climate of the Philippines reduces pig
housing requirements to a minimum, permitting the use of simple open-type
shelters to be-used as protection from sun and rain and the dividing up of
pigs into manageable groups for feeding and husbandry.  Excessive heat can
reduce feed intake and growth but this can be avoided by using an inexpen-
sive water sprinkling device that allows the pig a "shower."
6.        The tendency to allow too much floor space per pig still exists
in the Philippines although progress has been made since appraisal of the
first project in 1971. At that time, DBP financed 14 to 16 m2 of floor
space per sow, but this reduced to 12 m2 in 1973 and to 8.5 m2 in January
1974 for farms fattening 80% of the pigs produced and to 6.4 m2 for farms
fattening 20% of pigs produced (weaners are about two months old at time
of sale). These reduced space allowances represent savings of about 50%
on the investment required to house a sow, compared with the standards
prevalent in 1971.
Diseases
7.        Although all of the common diseases that affect pigs are present,
they can be prevented and controlled by vaccination, hygiene, and appro-
priate veterinary medication. The required vaccines and veterinary
medicines are readily available throughout the country, distributed by
drug companies and feed millers, who in addition generally provide vet-
erinary advice to farmers. Hog cholera is the most common disease and
outbreaks occur if sows are not vaccinated regularly. The importance
of regular treatment for worms is not appreciated by all farmers, but
if it is not provided, infestation can result in reduced returns.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Recestly, outbreaks of foot and mouth disease have occurred in Luzon
and Cebu Islands, but the threat to the pig industry as a whole is
probably not too serious. Its incidence and occurrence, however,
must be kept under constant review by DBP when defining p-iority
lending areas for pigs.
Feeds
8.        Feed accounts for about 80% to 90% of pig production costs in
the Philippines and to improve returns, feed conversion efficiency must be
improved. The feed cost of producing a kg of pig meat is determined by the
purchase price of feed and the conversion efficiency, and considerable im-
provement in both these areas could be achieved by purchasing raw materials
and mixing on the farm. On-farm mixing was encouraged under the first proj-
ect and it is at present widely practiced. It will be encouraged even fur-
ther under the proposed project by including feed storage in the investment
models.
9.        A feature of Philippine agriculture is the large quantities of
by-products (such as rice and corn offals, copra meal and molasses) avail-
able at low cost for animal feeding. This, of course, is a atrong incen-
tive to their overuse in commercial purchased feeds, but the formulation
of balanced high energy rations necessary for intensive pig production
using mainly these domestic ingredients is difficult.
10.       The quality of pig rations, both in terms of protein and energy,
can be improved considerably. With the range of by-products available,
good low cost balanced rations could be produced if attention is given to
incorporating the correct proportions of high energy and protein feeds
(e.g., corn and soya bean meal). Although adequate feed evaluation in-
formation is not available to enable full use to be made of the varied
domestic raw materials in pig rations, accumulated evidence from on-farm
feeding experiences indicates that savings of up to about 20% in the cost
of pig rations are possible with home mixing when expert advice on nutri-
tion is provided.
Breeding
11.       Feed conversion efficiency is influenced, not only by feed qual-
ity, but also by the genetic capability of the pig to convert feed to meat.
Great genetic variation exists between pigs in this important trait and is
worldwide evidence that considerable improvement can be achieved by using
performance-tested boars. The rate of progress achieved in feed conver-
sion efficiency by performance testing, in turn, depends on selection
intensity. With a selection intensity of 1 in 10, an improvement of 0.05
can be expected per round of testing. A small improvement in feed conver-
sion efficiency from 4 to 3.9 kg feed/kg liveweight gain would increase
profit per pig by about 10% in the Philippines.
12.       Under the first project, a consultant on pig breeding visited the
Philippines and prepared a report which has been reviewed by Government and



ANNEX 2
Page 4
other interested organizations and its recommendations have been accepted
as a basis for a future national breeding scheme. The proposed scheme will
concentrate on performance-testing boars and it is expected that management
and control will be vested in a council composed of members representing
Government, University of the Philippines, and pig farming organizations.
It is expected that the financing of the proposed scheme will be shared by
Government and pig farming organizations but final agreement on this had
not been reached at the time of appraisal.
B. Poultry Production
The National Flock and Demand
13.       There were about 95 million birds in the Philippines when the
latest official estimate was made in 1970. Surveys show that 90% of the
poultry are on farms with less than 500 birds so that the poultry industry
may be characterized as one having a large number of small producers and a
small number of large commercial units. It is estimated that nearly 3 mil-
lion householders keep poultry, of which 1.2 million are non-farm units.
Poultry meat production in 1972 was about 109,000 tons.
14.       The National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) has estimated
per capita consumption of poultry meat and eggs at 2.8 kg and 3.2 kg respec-
tively iu 1972. Assuming that per capita consumption remains constant and
that population is growing at 2.8% per annum, the additional annual demand
for poultry meat and eggs would be about 3,100 tons and 3,800 tons respec-
tively. This is equivalent to about 2.85 million broilers and about 360,000
layers. At present DBP is financing about 90 broiler loans (about 3,000
bird capacity) per year (including DBP/IBRD loans) and 35 layer loans (about
1,600 birds), which is equivalent to about 1.38 million broilers and about
57,000 layers. Therefore, current DBP lending represents about half of yearly
incremental growth for broilers and about 16% for layers. Under the proposed
project, about 83 broiler loans (additional 4,000 batch capacity) and about
50 layer loans (additional 4,000 layers) would be financed each year for
three years. The annual incremental production would be about 1.6 million
broilers and about 185,000 layers, representing about 57% and 51% of the
estimated total annual incremental growth, respectively.
Husbandry
15.       In rural areas, the traditional raising of native birds is widely
practiced. A few are kept to supply the household with meat and eggs, and
any surplus production is sold. Output is low, but the birds are scavengers
and production costs are negligible.
16.       Commercial poultry farms, with flocks ranging from a few hundred
birds to many thousand, are found throughout the Philippines and generally
follow intensive confinement methods of management. White leghorn types
in cage units are used for egg production, while hybrids and, in some cases,
leghorns are used for meat production. A small number of large integrated



ANNEX 2
Page 5
poultry firms have developed recently, operating units that range from
30,000 to 100,000 layers or broilers. On the commercial farms, modern
methods of production are used and management standards are satisfactory.
17.       Breeds used on commercial farms are derived from imported grand-
parent and parent stock. Franchise agreements are held with most of the
major poultry breeding establishments in the USA, and about half of a
million day-old chicks are imported annually - white leghorn types for
egg production and meat-type hybrids for broiler production. The impor-
tance of the native stock, however, is reflected in the fact that only
25% of the poultry meat supply is produced by commercial broilders, even
though about 75% of the layers are pure-bred imported breeds.
Diseases
18.       All the common diseases affecting poultry are present.  Mortality
from Newcastle disease is high dewpite preventive vaccination of an esti-
mated 30 million birds annually, and avian pest is the most serious hazard
for broiler units. Since prevention and control measures, including vac-
cination and medication, are available for all diseases and parasites,
these problems present no major obstacle to expansion of poultry.
Feeds
19.       As in the case of pigs, the cost and quality of feed is of prime
importance for egg and broiler production. The above discussion of feed
quality, cost and home mixing in relation to pigs is equally relevant to
poultry. The genetic component of feed conversion efficiency is taken
care of by importation of specialized foundation stock, and the existing
hatchery and multiplication facilities within the Philippines are consid-
ered adequate to meet existing and foreseeable demands. The ratio of feed
cost per kg to price received per kg of broiler meat and eggs is favorable
to the producer and allows a high level of profitability.
Integrated Production
20.       The development of integrated production on a contract basis
between producers and five large feed milling firms has been officially
encouraged to promote rapid development of the broiler industry. At
present, an estimated 60 to 80% of the commercial broilers are produced
under contract to these firms or by the milling firms in their own bbroiler
production units. Each firm has its own type and form of contract but all
contracts now operating are biased in favor of the "integrator." Typically
the feed mill, or integrator, supplies chicks, feed and some veterinary sup-
plies and services and the producer undertakes to provide housing, labor and
management and returns the broilers at eight weeks to the integrator. Typi-
cally, the producer receives about t 1 per bird returned. The feed millers
own and operate processing plants and usually sell broilers wholesale to
supermarkets and other outlets.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
21.       The major criticism of "contract" production hinges on the under-
lying elements of economic compulsion and monopoly, which, in effect, leaves
the medium-sized and large producer no alternatives. The millers control
the supply of broiler feeds and in time of shortages or disasters, they
give preference to their own contract producers. Therefore, the independ-
ent producer's feed supply is more uncertain or at least he thinks so. The
integrators have also taken over most of the hatcheries so that the supply
of chicks for the independent producer is also more risky. The integrator
also controls the processing facilities. It is essential for the broiler
producers to sell when broilers reach the required weight, and since
broilers are produced in batches so that houses can be disinfected, all
birds are marketed on the same day. The case for integration between the
producer and the processor is therefore compelling because the processor
also requires a reasonably even supply of birds. There is, however, no
good reason why the broiler producer should not have freedom of choice in
procuring chicks, feeds and veterinary supplies, but he cannot because in-
puts and processing and linked.
22.       Although Government initially encouraged integration to ensure
that the rapidly growing demand for broilers was met, thereby maintaining
reasonable consumer prices, senior government officials and the DBP are
at present concerned that integration may have gone too far. DBP has in
fact made representation to the Bureau of Investments on the matter and
argued that the producer should be free in procuring inputs. Under the
present circumstances, the policy of limiting DBP/IBRD lending to small
independent producers is correct. These producers can then sell to in-
dividual dealers, shops, and the like, and, since their batch output is
relatively small, they do not need a contract with a processor. Up to
now, the integrated sector of the industry was almost entirely confined
to the Manila area, the main market outlet, but there is ample scope to
develop small independent producers countrywide to meet the growing demand
in towns and villages. There are indications, however, that the integrators
will in the future concentrate on other large centers of population. Lend-
ing under the proposed project will concentrate on the small to medium sized
producer.
23.       Government should give serious consideration to an alternative
method of developing the broiler industry, based on integration of the
producer and the processor on a contract basis. Most broiler producers
are anxious to mix their own feeds and they should be free to do so as
well as to buy broiler rations from the feed millers. By joining asso-
ciations, they are eligible to purchase feeds from the National Grains
Authority, which ensures their supplies without a feed mill contract.
Similarly, there are sufficient independent chick suppliers to ensure
an adequate supply. The main bottleneck is at the processing level,
but the Manila Food Terminal, Inc. could overcome this by entering
into processing contracts with producers since it already has ample
capacity in its large Delta meat processing and cold storage facility.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle and Buffalo Production
Introduction
1.        The Philippines has a long tradition of large domestic ruminant
husbandry particularly with carabao (water buffalo) which are the main
sources of draft power for the predominant small rice farmers. Cattle are
also used for draft but are more important as beef animals. Dairy produc-
tion is insignificant and comes mainly from low yielding carabao which are
sometimes milked mainly for family or local village consumption. There is
virtually no tradition of commercial dairying with high producing dairy
breeds. In January 1973, there were an estimated 4.9 million carabao
(about 70% of the domestic ruminant population) and 2.1 million cattle
in the country about 80% of which were calculated to be distributed equally
between the two largest islands of Luzon and Mindanao with the Visayas account-
ing for the balance.
Carabao
2.        The carabao is found in the traditional small farmer sector in
family herds which range from about 2 to 5 in size. The primary use of
these animals is for draft and rarely if ever are they grown and slaugh-
tered specifically for beef. However, carabao are killed when they are
too old for work or breeding purposes and the beef from these animals
comprises 60-70% of the Philippines total beef production. Because of
its age carabao meat is generally of lower quality than that from cattle.
Consequently it is lower priced and is consumed mainly by the medium to
low income groups.
3.        Little has been done to date to explore the possibility of in-
creasing the turn-off of beef from the national Carabao herd although it
is generally agreed that there is potential for doing so. Information is
required however on the production performance of local carabao and coef-
ficients under different management systems. Steps have now been taken to
obtain such data. Under the latest draft Cattle Development Program it is
proposed to set up a carabao research commodity team under the direction of
the Philippines Council for Agriculture Research (PCAR). Also Government
recently made a submission to UNDP for assistance in establishing a Carabao
Research and Development Institute. However, it should be realized that
the carabao is primarily a draft animal and although beef output from
existing herds could undoubtedly be increased, the Carabao as a beef



ANNEX 3
Page 2
producing animal is very unlikely to compete with potentially more
efficient beef cattle. It is with the latter that greatest emphasis
should be placed in formulating national plans for increasing beef pro-
duction.
Beef Cattle
4.        The beef cattle industry is characterized by low productivity
with a national weaning rate of about 50%. With few exceptions, beef cat-
tle are managed under traditional systems which are characterized often by
inefficient land use and poor management. The industry is stratified into
four main production systems: (i) hill beef farming; (ii) integrated cat-
tle and coconuts; (iii) backyard or small farm cattle raising; and (iv) com-
mercial feedlots. Except for a few purebred operations most cattle are a
mixture of "native" cattle and a number of Bos indicus breeds, notably
Nellore and more recently American Brahman and Indu-Brazils. Only limited
use is made of artificial insemination and the impact of any breed improve-
ment programs has been generally poor.
5.        The improved Zebu breeds are well adapted to the hot humid climate
of the Philippines. Amount and distribution of rainfall is favorable for
pasture development with the exception of the western edge of the archi-
pelago. Average monthly rainfall in this area ranges from under 0.4 cm
during January-March to over 30 cm during June-August when dry matter con-
tent of the lush grass is too low for efficient weight gains.
6.        The low reproductive efficiency of the breeder herds plus the
small national breeder base is a major constraint to expansion of domestic
beef production, and the presently supply of feeder cattle is insufficient
to meet the demands of the backyard fattening and the small but expanding
feedlot operations. Clearly the first priority must be to increase breeder
performance and numbers before domestic beef production can be increased
significantly. Fundamental to this is the need to improve the nutrition of
the national breeder herd. Numerically the backyard operation is the most
important cattle enterprise (with more than 75% cattle of all classes) but
probably represents the most difficult area in which to increase productivity.
rhis is due to technical problems and present inadequacy and difficulty of
providing technical services to numerous small enterprises. Good oppor-
tunities exist for improving the nutrition and reproduction coefficients
of breeder herds run under coconuts and also on hill farms, primarily
through the introduction of improved pastures.
7.        The cattle health situation in the Philippines is relatively
favorable in comparison to many tropical areas and is not a serious con-
straint on production. Rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuropneuaonia
are non-existent. The Government officially declared the Visayas and
Mindanao as foot-and-mouth disease free areas in May, 1972 but outbreaks
have occurred again in 1975. Animal disease surveillance is simplified by
the island structure of the country and predominance of animal movements
in a South to North direction. Vaccines and treatments for the common
diseases are readily available to producers and are widely used.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Hill Beef Cattle Farms
8.        There are hill farming areas in most parts of the country, but
the main areas are in northern Luzon, Mindoro, Masbate and Mindanao. Only
about 12% of the national cattle herd is run on hill farms but the industry
is a very important traditional source of feeder cattle for the backyard
cattle raisers, most of hill farm off-take being sold as yearlings. The
area of land under this use is uncertain but the total available area of
hilly to rolling grassland is 3.4 million ha. Of this amount, about half
is publicly owned. Much of this land is in remote inaccessible areas. About
a quarter of the hill land is leased from the Government for up to 25 years
on some 1,500 Pasture Lease Agreements under the Forestry Reform Code. Over
80% of these leases are for areas between 100 to 1,000 ha. These Agreements
require the farmer to make certain improvements but in the past were seldom
followed or enforced. A recent revised Agreement contains even more strin-
gent requirements which it is unlikely farmers will be able to meet. Hill
cattle farming is historically a low input-output enterprise. The reasons
for this include the past uncertainty attached to land tenure, the squatter
problem, the absence of peace and order in some more remote areas and the
lack of technical knowledge on development possibilities. Typically hill
farms are between 200 and 700 ha in area and contain minimal facilities
(mainly some fencing and rudimentary building, if any). The land was pre-
viously forested but following over-intensive cultivation, the forest has
been replaced by "cogon" grass, a collection of very course natural grasses
(primarily Imperata cylindrica, Imperata exaltata, Saccharum spontaneum and
Themeda ssp.). Fiber content of these species increases rapidly as the
vegetation matures with corresponding loss of digestibel nutrients. Thus
the range is burned periodically to stimulate young vegetative growth for
grazing. Centrosema and other perennial legumes have been successfully
established by broadcasting seed on the ashes, but the plants are usually
destroyed by subsequent burning. Less than 1,000 ha of the hill farm area
is estimated to be under improved pasture. Low input extensive grazing
methods are used on these farms and the poor natural pasture without sup-
plements and bad management contribute to low annual weaning rates of about
40-50%. Low productivity is also due to hill beef farming often being a
secondary activity of commercial and professional people who rarely visit
the farm and use their farms as a financial hedge rather than as a produc-
tive enterprise. However, there are also a significant number of full time
hill farmers who are anxious to improve their properties. With intensive
development of hill farms a three or four fold increase in cattle produc-
tivity is technically possible and has been achieved by some hill farmers
through pasture improvement and application of simple improved husbandry
techniques. Typically carrying capacity is increased from 0.3 to 1.3
animal units per ha and weaning percentage lifted from less than 50% to
70%.
9.        Land use conflicts remain a problem in some hill farm areas and
are a deterrent to investment in development programs. This problem is
accentuated by often up to 25% of the area of individual hill farms being
suitable for crop production. The full extent of the problem is not known



ANNEX 3
Page 4
but as an example on Masbate island 41% of Pasture Lease Agreements are
officially recorded as having a squatter problem. Although hill beef farm-
ers hold long term leases and/or freehold title, long term development of
arable land on hill farms for cattle is not advisable since such land is
likely to be required for cropping in due course. In future the issuance
of Pasture Lease Agreements is to be confined to non-arable "cattle country"
as certified by the relevant departments (Natural Resources, Agriculture,
Agrarian Reform and National Defense). The extent of such land is not
known.
Integrated Cattle and Coconuts
10.       The Philippine is the world's largest producer and exporter of
coconut products and has about 2.1 million ha under palms. Over 750,000 ha
of commercial coconuts, representing 40% of the nation's total, are located
on Mindanao. The second most important commercial coconut region is Eastern
Visayas, with 387,000 ha in bearing trees. Distribution of rainfall in
these regions is favorable for pastures. The coconut industry is dominated
by smallholders although conflicting statistics are available on farm size
distribution and tenancy. Many farms are 5 ha or less but the majority
are probably in the 5 to 25 ha range with possibly 88% of the total under
25 ha. The country's low average copra yield of approximately 0.8 tons/
ha is indicative of the generally poor standard of farm management with
for example only about 5% of farms using fertilizer. Under good manage-
ment using local palm varieties yields of 4.5 tons of copra/ha are possible.
Over the past ten years, the production of copra has increased by nearly
50% due to area expansion but yield of copra per unit area has declined.
It is estimated that 0.8 million ha (40%) of the coconut area is grazed
by cattle or carabao, partly for weed control. Some 10-13% of the cattle
population is estimated to be on coconut farms on mostly unimproved coarse
indigenous pastures.  Main areas are Southern Luzon, Samar, Cebu and Min-
danao.  Indicated stocking rates are about one half to one animal units
per ha compared with a potential of at least 2 animal units per ha on
improved pasture. Most herds operate as breeder and fattening units
but some farms fatten only, buying yearlings and selling at about three
years. Management standards are low and little fertilizer is applied,
often resulting in reduced copra yields. However, a few farms have
improved pasture which is rotationally grazed and also achieve increased
copra yields with application of fertilizer. Pasture generally consists
of para and guinea grasses overseeded with Centrosema. Annual fertilizer
applications vary from 250 to 500 kg/ha and annual sub-soiling for aeration
corrects the effects of trampling. Stocking rates are up to 4 animal units/
ha on well-managed farms and weaning rates of at least 75% can be achieved.
Under good management the addition of cattle can double net income per ha.
The integrated coconut/cattle farm, with good management, holds the most
promise for efficient cattle production. The potential stocking and weaning
rates are higher than can be expected on other production systems, resulting
in lower unit production costs.
11.       Excellent opportunities exist for upgrading productivity of the
existing grazed areas and for opening new areas for integrated beef/coconut



ANNEX 3
Page 5
production. Copra production could be more than doubled on the average
farm within 7 years and cattle carrying capacity of 2 animal units per ha
achieved within two years by pasture improvement and application of fertil-
izer. The key to a viable cattle/coconut enterprise is the establishment
and maintenance of high quality tropical pasture which enhances coconut
production as well as providing the basis for achieving high cattle pro-
ductivity. The dominant use of tall coconut varieties, the mature age
distribution of palms in the Philippines and the wide palm spacing (10 m x
10 m) particulary in Mindanao, generally makes the coconut farm well suited
to tropical pasture development and cattle production. During the course
of implementation of the first livestock project three categories of coco-
nut farm land were recognized from the point of view of potential for
tropical pasture development. Each of these three categories will be
developed under the proposed Project. The first category and best land
for growing coconuts is also the best land for pastures. These are flat
coastal, free draining sandy loam soils with a high watertable where soil
moisture is not a constraint for copra production, and where high yielding
grass/legume pastures can be grown without adverse effect on copra yields.
The second category of coconut land occurs somewhat inland, on land with
rolling topography and clay soils. The yield potential of coconut palms
is lower and due to possible moisture stress high yielding grasses with a
high moisture demand are avoided in favor of a straight legume pasture or
a lower yielding grass with the legume. The third category represents an
extension of the second category into steeper land which may have been
badly eroded and invaded with "cogon." Similar pastures to the second
category are grown here but coconut and cattle offtake potential is lower.
Backyard Cattle Production
12.       Some 75% of the cattle in the Philippines are kept by small
farmers. The small farmer may either breed and/or train cattle for draft
purposes. Fattening is generally preferred to breeding because it is more
profitable but due to the unreliability of supply of feeder cattle some
farmers run breeder animals as well. In some areas cattle are used for
draft. Backyard cattle are particularly prevalent in Batangas and Pangasinan
provinces and the weekly cattle markets in these areas specialize in the sale
of yearlings from the hill farms for smallholder fattening. "Batangas" beef
from Southern Luzon has a reputation for quality in Greater Manila, where it
is sought by the select meat trade. The animals are handfed with rice bran,
home-grown corn, pidgeon peas, ipil-ipil and napier grass or sugarcane tops.
The steers are frequently used for light draft during the fattening period.
They are sold at 18-24 months of age with liveweights of 325-350 kg. Weekly
cattle markets are held in the two provinces. Typically backyard cattle rais-
ing involves very low inputs (a simple enclosure and/or tethers, some water
troughs) and labor is frequently supplied by the family.
13.       This form of cattle management has considerable potential for
both using under-utilized feed resources and providing additional income



ANNEX 3
Page 6
for small farmers. Key factors in expansion of smallholder cattle produc-
tion are: (i) local availability of unused feed supply either on public
lands (e.g. road verges and waste land) or on private land (e.g. crop
residues and waste grass along irrigation ditches); (ii) supply of feeder
steers; (iii) the provision of technical services, particularly advice on
improved feeding; (iv) adequate veterinary services; (v) provision of bull
service centers or A.I.; and (vi) establishment of regular municiple markets
for livestock. Implicit on these requirements for expansion is the neces-
sity to concentrate effort and selection of particular areas for saturation
development. Such development should be proceeded by a survey of local feed
resources. Approximately 1 ha of roadside grass will support two animal
units. Carrying capacity of crop residue varies widely according to yield
and quality but one animal unit requires approximately 2,500 kg of roughage
per year. The carabao used for draft purposes has first choice of crop
residues and as a general rule, cattle will only be carried by small farm-
ers, in addition to draft animals, in locations where there is a high ratio
of non-arable (cattle feed producing land) to arable land or where irriga-
tion provides an excess of unused crop residue. Due to the slow build up
of returns from breeder cattle development, backyard breeding operations
would require initially a ratio of at least 3 feeder steers to 1 breeder
to ensure satisfactory cash flow over the loan repayment period.
Commercial Feedlots
14.       Good opportunities could exist for the development of commercial
feedlots based on by-products of the banana and sugar industries, if there
were an adequate supply of feeder cattle. As yet this development is in
its infancy but with the expansion of the national herd and increased
availability of feeders it could expand rapidly. Up to 800 gms daily
liveweight gain has been recorded with 2-year old steers being fed 15 kilo
of reject bananas per day plus urea, molasses and ipil-ipil. In 1973 the
Philippines produced 1.01 million metric tons of bananas, exporting slightly
under 50% of production. For calendar year 1975 banana exports are expected
to reach 700,000 metric tons. With rejection rate averaging about 17% on
bananas destined for export, theoretically about 21,000 head of cattle
could be kept on feedlot throughout the year. However, the poor supply
of feeder cattle in large mobs is a constraint to the development of
large scale feedlots and for this reason it is uncertain at present how
this industry will develop. Some producers have plans to breed cattle in
feedlots but the technical and economic feasibility of this proposal has
yet to be established. Possibly a dairy/beef enterprises will ultimately
evolve. It is conceivable that smallholder units handling 10 to 20 head
in a feedlot at one time, have a better opportunity to develop in the
immediate future given the poor feeder cattle supply position. Establish-
ment of large scale commercial feedlots would significantly increase the
demand for feeder cattle and as is the case already in some parts of the
country, result in price differentials being eliminated between feeder and
finished animals. Commercial feedlots were not included as a component of
the Project since emphasis is to be given to breeding activities in order
to improve feeder cattle supply.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Dairying
15.       Present dairy activities in the Philippines are limited to the
occasional milking of native cattle and work buffaloes. There are only
some seven commercial dairies in particularly favorable climatic and
marketing locations, with exceptional management (for example the Magnolia
Dairy Farm where 600 Friesians yield about 3,500 kg/lactation and the Cen-
tral Mindanao University dairy project). There are few dairy-type animals
in the Philippines, the total number unofficially estimated at 48,150 head
in 1971, comprising 29,050 carabaos, 11,700 cows and 7,400 goats. Of the
milk cows 2,500 were exotic crosses, mainly Friesan. Native carabaos and
cattle are not generally milked, but when they are, the average yield is
only about 1.5 kg per day over a 250 day lactation period. On the other
hand, carabaos crossed with the Indian Murrah produce about 4 to 7 liters
pdr day over a 270 day lactation period.
16.       The total consumption of milk and milk products in 1973 in the
Philippines was estimated at a whole milk equivalent of 695,535 tons. This
waa 14% below the preceding year, 806,105 tons, because imports were down
due to substantial price increases. Per capita consumption from 1970 to
1972 ranged from 20.13 to 30.62 kg and decreased to 17.29 kg in 1973, but
total demand for milk products is expected to be about 1 million tons
(milk equivalent) in 1980.
17.       Government has relied mainly on imported milk products to meet
national demand antd the Philippines currently imports about 97% of its
dairy products. Milk and milk products valued at over US$60 million were
imported in 1974 and comprised 76% of total livestock product imports.
Milk powder was in surplus supply on the world market and large quantities
of subsidized powder were being imported, resulting in a rapid growth of
the local recombining and filled milk industry. Milk production, however,
was unattractive at the farm gate prices at this time and there was no
incentive to further develop the infant dairy industry. From 1970 to 1973,
domestic production ran at about 2,600 to 2,800 tons. This situation has
now changed, farmgate prices are higher and Government is anxious to encour-
age local production because of the large increase in the present and pro-
jected foreign exchange amounts required to finance dairy product imports.
Between 1970 and 1974, the retail price of evaporated milk, the main dairy
product, increased by about 70% and condensed milk by about 145%, due mainly
to higher import prices.
18.       Given the rise in cost of dairy imports from US$30-70 million
in the early 1970s to over US$60 million in 1974, good opportunity might
appear to exist for a major dairy development based on an import substi-
tution strategy. However, in coamon with many other humid tropical coun-
tries which do not have significant areas of semi-temperate highlands,
the Philippines is not likely to be able to produce large quantities of
fresh milk economically in comparison with the cost of imports from
temperate regions. Typically the unit costs of finished milk products
in such countries are about double the costs of imported milk products.
In such circumstances it is difficult to justify domestic production of



ANNEX 3
Page or
milk. However, considerable inroads could be made into the milk import
bill if there were a widespread increase in smallscale dairy enterprises
to serve families and their immediate neighborhoods with fresh milk. The
costs of such enterprises, when they use underutilized family labor and
crop residues and may be side-line activities of breeding/fattening farms,
can be significantly lower than large scale dairies. In addition, fresh
milk marketed locally for immediate consumption is cheaper to market and
fetches a higher retail price than milk which must be processed to permit
shipping and storage. During appraisal, fresh milk was retailed in Manila
at about 1 18 per gallon, while whole milk powder was selling at t 16 to
20 per kg, which is equivalent to about t 11 per gallon for whole milk.
Alternatively, small scale dairying can be developed in the neighborhood
of existing milk processing plants with spare capacity, although the price
paid for processing milk is likely to be lower than that for retailed fresh
milk.
19.       The four major constraints on the development of dairying in the
Philippines are:
(a) Climate: The humid tropical climate to which high yielding
temperate milking breeds of cattle cannot adapt without
serious reduction in yields;
(b) Dairy Breeds: Absence of significant numbers of dairy type
animals of the breeds (mainly Bos indicus) and cross-breeds
which are adapted to humid tropical climates;
(c) Forage and Supplementation: Tropical and sub-tropical for-
ages, unlike temperate forages, cannot sustain high levels
of milk production. Without supplementation, improved trop-
ical pasture cannot support a daily yield in excess of 6 to
8 kg of milk per day, even in early lactation. Without
supplementation, it is best to assume that forage will pro-
vide maintenance and not more than about 500 kg of cow per
lactation. An adequate supply of forage is vital, however,
since it is much cheaper per kg of dry matter than concen-
trates and it will normally provide 80 to 90Z of the total
dry matter consumed. Meal supplementation is required of the
order of 2 kg meal per kg of milk up to a yield of 1,000
kg and 1 kg meal per kg milk thereafter. Therefore, milk
production under tropical conditions is expansive and the
price paid to the producer must be sufficient to support
domestic production.
(d) Absence of Dairying Tradition: There is little or no tra-
dition of dairying in the Philippines and, consequently,
a strong technical service covering forage production, feed-
ing, breeding, management and dairy husbandry, including
clean milk production, must be provided to beginners.
Initially this will be possible only on a small scale.
Efficient dairy production requires consistently high



ANNEX 3
Page 9
management standards and this especially so in the humid
tropics where the effects of the climate are an added
problem.
(e)  Milk Collection Processing and Marketing:  Up to the
present, the main development has been in the filled-
milk sector based on imported raw materials. However,
Government has developed a few well-equipped dairy
plants around Manila to encourage production by small
producers but they are seriously handicapped by inade-
quate supplies of milk.
20.       Because of these problems the dairy development proposed in the
Project is of pilot nature on only 20 coconut farms.
Animal Health
21.       Although almost all the common livestock diseases are present in
the country, they are not a serious constraint on production. The cattle
disease situation is relatively favorable compared with many tropical areas
and is not a serious constraint on production. Disease control is aided by
the island struction of the country. Veterinary supplies are available
throughout the country and most producers use modern vaccines and prophy-
latic measures and maintain reasonable standards of hygiene.
Cattle Production Services
22.       The Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) is responsible for providing
extension and veterinary services to cattle producers. The Bureau of Plant
Industry also provides extension advice on related crop matters. The BAI
operates an increasing number of breeding/demonstration stations where
improved breeds of bulls are available for upgrading. Demonstration plots
of improved grasses and legumes are also maintained on some stations. How-
ever, the effectiveness of BAI in reaching cattle farmers with the required
services is poor and the Department of Agriculture is aware that substantial
improvements are required before services to the cattle industry can be con-
sidered adequate. In addition to Government the private sector provides
adequate veterinary supplies through networks of agencies throughout the
country. Marketing of cattle is largely through traditional channels
(livestock traders and public markets) although the Government owned Food
Terminal Inc. has recently entered the market through its regional trading
posts and shipment of cattle to Ma-ila. Inter-island transport facilities
for cattle require improvement, but private iniatives, stimulated by the
present wide marketing margins (for both pigs and cattle), are expected to
result in the introduction of specialized livestock boats in the near future.
Goverment Policies
23.       The National Beef/Carabeef Development Program (1976-86) of November,
1976, proposes increased emphasis on beef production. While the program is



ANNEX 3
Page ll
primarily directed towards the small farmer, the stratification
of the cattle industry is recognized and expansion of hill farming is to
be encouraged to provide more feeder stock for backyard fattening. At the
same time, to further increase the national breeding base it is proposed
to encourage small farmers to raise more cows, although fattening is con-
sidered to be more profitable.  For the smallholder the components of the
program include; establishment of strategic livestock markets supported
by trading posts connected with the Food Terminal Inc. in Manila; provision
of livestock extension services built around the Samahang Nayon, and pro-
vision of purebred bulls for lease to farmers. It will be the responsi-
bility of the BAI in collaboration with the Department of Local Government
and Community Development to assist small farmers to start backyard cattle
breeding and fattening projects. Expansion of backyard operations will be
based on the successful Batangas pattern. For small farmer breeding proj-
ects the proposal is to finance one cow and two feeder steers through medium
term loans (up to 7 years) with an interest free grace period of two years
for cattle and three years for carabao. These loan terms may prove too
stringent. Smallholder cattle/carabao breeding loans are planned to be
provided through the Rural Banks from a "Foundation Herd Interest Fund" with
an initial appropriation of t 10 million (US$1.33 million). The program
concentrates effort in the first 18-24 months in Masbate and Bukidnon/Misamis
Oriental. Succeeding regions to receive attention will be Mindoro, South
Cotobato, Cagayan Valley, Davao Provinces, Bohol and Bondoc Peninsula. The
Project strategy supports the Program's general objective of expanding beef
output through increased investment in large beef cattle farms to provide
more breeder and feeder stock for the expansion of smallholder beef production.
However, the production parameters on which the Program's projected reulats
are based appear optimistic and the detailed arrangements for implementing
the Program appear to have been inadequately formulated.
24.       For the hill farmer, issuance of new Pasture Lease Agreements
(PLAs) will be subject in the future to more stringent development condi-
tions as specified in the revised Forestry Reform Code. All PLA holders
who have not complied with the terms of the lease will be given a 12 month
grace period to prepare a development plan and if needed obtain finance.
However, it is not clear that these new provisions are practical, partic-
ularly with respect to the short period allowed for compliance and the
prohibitive cost of such development on all the hill lands operated under
PLAs, even having allowed for some reduction in the PLA area as arable
lands within present PLAs are excluded. Consequently Government policy
on the development of hill lands leased under PLAs requires review.
Cattle Development in the First Livestock Project
25.       In the first project the cattle components (integrated coconut/
beef breeding/fattening and hill beef breeding) were particularly slow in
starting, partly because of delayed appointment of the beef production
specialist. However, the cattle components were progressing very satis-
factorily with, as of September, 1975, about 9% (US$600,000) of project
farm/ranch funds having been committed to beef cattle enterprises. Funds had
been committed for 46 integrated coconut/beef breeding investments and for
the development of 114 hill beef breeding farms.  Because of the long lead



ANNEX 3
Page 11
time required in beef cattle development of a full assessment of the
performance of these farms is not yet possible, but inspection of a sample
'during appraisal indicated that the developments are in line with appraisal
proposals. It was apparent that closer supervision of the sub-projects
was required in order to provide sub-borrowers with adequate advice during
the development phase. Under the first project, technical assistance was
provided to initiate feeding trials using sugar industry by-products
(molasses and sugarcane tops) as the basal diet. This work is on-going
and the first trials at Victorias Milling Company in Negros have been
encouraging, producing daily liveweight gains of 660 gm for a return on
investment of 48%. However, over two thirds of the margin in this analysis
was due to the appreciation in value of cattle while in the feedlot and less
than one third was due to weight gain. There was no dairy component in the
first project.
Proposed Cattle Component
26.       The cattle component of the Project would comprise about 800
loans split between 60 for hill farms, 440 for integrated coconuts and
cattle and 200 for backyard cattle. This is 24% of total loans in number
and 20% (US$8 million) of total project cost. The general strategy is to
concentrate on increasing breeder/feeder numbers through placing greatest
eaphasis on coconut farms where the best production coefficients may be
expected and to make an initial effort to finance and improve backyard
cattle enterprises. Dairy development will be limited to 20 small scale
pilot operations on coconut farms. A beef production specialist would be
provided to assist DBP to implement the program and to improve supervision of
cattle sub-projects. In addition finance is provided for two short term
consultants to assist the continuation of the feedlot trials based on crop
by-products and for further investigation of backyard cattle production.
27.       (1)  Hill Beef Cattle:  Some 3% (US$1.2 million) of the Loan funds
would be channeled into the development of hill beef breeding farms. The
object would be to channel credit into the step in the development of the
average hill farm which involves minimum fixed improvements but will raise
productivity significantly, namely (i) pasture improvement on a small por-
tion of the farm for special uses to complement the natural pastures; (ii)
fencing; (iii) stock watering facilities; (iv) corral facilities; and (v)
cowboy accommodation. Sub-loans for hill farm development would be limited
to farms which are not affected or not likely to be affected by land use
conflicts.
28.       Pasture improvement is the cornerstone of hill farm development
and it is important that the first unit of improved pasture be used ef-
fectively. Priority use of improved pasture would be directed towards
raising the conception rate by providing a rising plane of nutrition for
cows after calving. To achieve this, it is estimated that about 10% of
the total effective area of an average hill farm would be initially sown
to an improved grass/legume pasture. In general terms, the technology



ANNEX 3
Page 12
of tropical pasture development and management is well understood for
the type of environment represented by Philippine hill beef farms, and
further research is not required for commercial pasture improvement to
progress confidently.
29.       The essential features of economic pasture improvement on hill
farms are:
(a) the use of improved pasture species which will spread
naturally and replace the existing coarse native "cogon"
grass and which could be established with minimum land
preparation or by sowing into a burnt sward;
(b) the use of species which can recover from intermittent
close grazing and burning;
(c) the preference for sowing an improved grass and legume
together rather than simply oversowing a, legume into the
"cogon."  This precludes the ingress of low yielding
grasses which inevitably replace "cogon" with heavy
grazing pressure; and
(d) the use of species which will persist and be productive
without fertilizer or with minimum fertilizer inputs.
The legumes best suited to this task in the Philippines include Schofield
Stylo (Stylosanthes guyanensis), Centro (Centrosema pubescens) and Peruvian
Ipil-Ipil (Leucaena leucocephela). The most important grasses are Alabang
(Dichanthium aristatum) and African Star Grass (Cynodon plectostachyum).
30.       Even using pasture grasses and legumes with low phosphorus re-
quirement, pasture improvement on some hill farms in the Philippines will
require phosphorus maintenance fertilizer to ensure vigor and persistence
of the pasture. However, where fertilizer is required the rate of retura
is significantly lower than where fertilizer is not required. Consequently,
where continued application of maintenance fertilizer is required develop-
ment of improved pasture on more than 10% of the total hill farm area (suf-
ficient for breeding cows before mating) may be economically unjustified at
present fertilizer prices.
31.       (2)  Integrated Coconut Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening:  About
6.52 (US$2.7 million) of the Loan funds would finance the development of
beef cattle breeding and fattening under coconuts. The rationale for the
emphasis on coconut/beef in the Project is based on (i) the expected higher
reproductive efficiency of herds under coconuts and thus more rapid expan-
sion of the national beef cattle herd by concentration in this sector at
present; (ii) the relative ease and efficiency of supervision and market-
ing of cattle from coconut areas; and (iii) the possibility of improving
through diversification the risk situation of small coconut farmers. De-
velopment would be geared on one hand to increasing production of the



ANNEX 3
Page 13
coconuts and on the other hand to the introduction of pasture and infra-
structure specifically for cattle. Cattle production coefficients con-
sidered achieveable at full development are as follows:
Land Category:                 First Class   Second Class   Third Class
Carrying capacity
(a.u./ha)                       2.5           2.0            1.5
Liveweight gain
(kg/head/day)                    .425           .400          .350
Weaning rate (X)                 75             75             70
Fixed improvements would include: (i) construction of fences, corral and
new copra driers; (ii) sowing of improved pastures; (iii) establishment of
pasture and coconut fertilizing routines; and (iv) purchase of cattle.
32.       The tropical legumes most suited to planting under coconuts are
centro, kudzu and ipil-ipil. High planting rates (centro-15 kg/ha, kudzu-
10 kg/ha and ipil-ipil-4 kg/ha transplanted) would be used as seed of these
species is cheap and high planting rates help to suppress the early weed
growth. On first class coconut land para grass would be favored. On the
poorer categories of coconut land, Alabang X would be used in combination
with the above legumes or pure legume stands would be used. On the poorer
soils, maintenance phosphatic fertilizer is expected to be required to
maintain pasture vigor and high animal productivity. The model for breed-
ing and fattening on 20 ha assumes application of maintenance fertilizer
and a correspondingly high stocking rate (Annex 11). The model for fat-
tening on 5 ha assumes no maintenance fertilizer with correspondingly
lower stocking rates.
33.       There is an apparent conflict with the coconut replanting program
being formulated under UNDP auspices using high yielding dwarf hybrids,
which are not compatible with cattle grazing. This program is planned to
commence in 1981 with a target annual replanting rate of 60,000 ha by 1985.
The replanting program will be organized on a district-by-district basis
and the conflict here (albeit in the future) is real if a replantirng dis-
trict coincides with areas recently diversified by introduction of beef
cattle. However, considering the income flucutations common to coconut
monoculture which is substantially export dependent, a diversified beef
enterprise will continue to be attractive to farmers with no other source
of income. With this in mind, it may be worth considering replanting with
tall hybrids and adoption of wide palm spacings which permit intercropping
with various crops (including pastures for cattle) rather than aiming to
maximize yield by mono-cropping dwarf coconuts.
34.       Coconut land tenure does not pose a problem and usually the owner
of small coconut farms lives on the farm. However, the farm may also be
the place of residence of a contract copra maker who takes 20-30% of the
crop for harvesting nuts and making copra. Because of this arrangement,



ANNEX 3
Page lb
the share cropper may benefit significantly from copra yield increases
on farms financed under the Project.
35.       (3) Integrated Coconut/Dairy Beef:  About US$100,000 of the Loan
funds would finance the pilot scale development of dairying on 20 coconut
farms. These pilot developments will be located with specific regard to
marketing the milk, either retailed fresh or to existing processing plants.
There are large areas under coconuts on Luzon, within 30 to 60 miles of the
important Manila milk market. Under the project, the pilot dairy develop-
ment component would be located in these areas, particularly around Lucena.
36.       Adequate dairy cattle are available locally for the pilot develop-
ment planned, mainly from the Bureau of Animal Industries supply farms.
At most, about 100 dairy heifers would be required per year for a year
period. If a significant effort is to be made, to develop dairying, how-
ever, the local supply would be inadequate. There are two options open,
importation or local breeding. Since the latter is the most attractive,
particularly as the Philippines have reasonably good artificial insemina-
tion service, it is proposed that DBP and BAI encourage the production of
cross-bred cattle on some existing large beef ranches. It is expected
that cross-bred dairy-type heifers should bring about J 500 more than
beef heifers, which would constitute a strong incentive for ranches to
participate in a contract scheme. Semen could be readily imported and
insemination carried out by the BAI insemination service. Feeds suitable
for supplementing forage are in plentiful supply. Rice and corn by-products
and molasses are readily available and the ruminant is particularly effi-
cient in utilizing high-fibre feeds (rice and corn by-products). In the
projections for dairy farms under the Project, it is assumed that 400 kg
dairy feed would be required for a projected yield of 1,000 kg per cow
per lactation. DBP and BAI have agreed to give strong technical support
to the dairy farms developed under the Project. Furthermore, DBP and BAI
will arrange collection if necessary by one of the small existing plants
operated by BAI or by the plant at Los Banos operated by the University
of the Philippines. Since there is a good market for pasteurized whole
milk, there should be little difficulty in maintaining the present price
of about Y 1.80 per kg to the producer for cow's milk (about US$1.10 per
gallon). A farmgate price of t 1.80 per kg is used in the dairy models
for the Project.
37.       (4)  Backyard Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening:  About US$124,000
of Project funds would be channeled into the development of 200 of these
small scale enterprises. This is a small proportion of the total funds
but the financing requirements of these enterprises are low (about US$870
per unit of 8 animals, including 3 breeding cows) and the full potential
of this type of enterprise is limited by the present inadequate supply of
feeder cattle. Also, this is essentially a pilot program, one of the
rationales being to develop a model for increasing the breeding effi-
ciency of the large part of the national beef herd kept by the small
backyard beef farmer. Specific areas would be selected in Central Luzon
and Southern Tagalog for concentration of projects based on an appraisal
of fodder surpluses at the barrio level. A short term consultant is also



ANNEX 3
Page 15
provided to investigate the parameters of backyard enterprises and to advise
on future policies and development possibilities.
Importation of Breeder Cattle
38.       In terms of number of breeder cattle, the Project will absorb
approximately 13,200 head over the loan disbursement period. In any one
year, the peak number of additional breeders required will be 4,300 head.
Only crude estimates can be made of surplus females generated from the
national cattle herd each year but the incremental number of breeders
required by the Project is a very small percentage of possible national
surplus and since the need for improvement of genetic quality is not a
major factor, importation of additional females is not essential. How-
ever, for some larger enterprises difficulty may be experienced in aggre-
gating a line of quality heifers from the Philippine live cattle markets
which traditionally deal in small numbers. This fact together with a
possibly continued depressed world market could make importation of cross-
breed heifers with 5/8 or more Brahman blood attractive in special cases.
This possiblity is open to sub-borrowers if they wish and is not precluded
by procurement requirements.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig and Poultry Rations
General
1.        Feedmixes used in the livestock and poultry industries in the
Philippines are compounded from mainly corn and corn by-products, rice
by-products, sorghum, soyabean meal, copra meal, fish meal, meat and bone
meal, wheat bran and pollard and molasses. A large part of the soyabean
meal, fishmeal and meat and bone meal used by feedmillers is imported and
in 1972 this amounted to 93% of fishmeal, 67% of soyabean meal and 54% of
meat and bone meal. Sorghum grain was imported for the first time in 1974
amounting to 20,113 tons and corn imports rose to 110,000 tons. All grains
are imported by the National Grains Authority which resells at a small profit.
Protein Constituents
2.        Significant increases in domestic production of fisnmeal and meat
and bone meal is not expected to occur and increased dependence on imports
is expected with the expansion of the pig and poultry industries. Inade-
quate attention appears to have been given to copra meal as a protein in-
gredient of feedstuffs. With about 20% crude protein content and its wide
availability the meal could be a valuable substitute for imported protein
when price rations are favorable. Further investigation of the potential
of copra meal in feedstuffs is warranted. Soyabean production is in its
infancy with only 2,214 tons produced in 1973/74. A limited area of soya-
beans is grown by small farmers for human consumption, but large scale com-
mercial growers are having problems. Yields have been disappointing, aver-
aging 0.8 m.t./ha due to poor quality seed and adverse climatic factors just
before and after harvest. Marketing is also a problem as larger buyers are
not attracted to the local product because of low quality, the necessity to
process soyabeans berore being used for animal feed and the inefficiency of
using the large available processing plants for a small throughput. Resolv-
ing these problems is likely to be difficult. A change of Government policy
towards providing financial incentives may be required to stimulate develop-
ment of the soyabean industry. The provision of credit in the project for
soyabean development was judged to be premature and in view of the technical
problems still to be overcome this is not expected to be a constraint to the
expansion of soyabean production. Incremental soyabean requirements for the
Project will therefore be largely imported.
Energy Sources
3.        Corn provides the main energy ingredient in feedmixes used for
pig and poultry industries. For the large compounders, corn and corn



ANNEX 4
Page 2
by-products has constituted in the past about 50% of the total weight of mixed
feeds. About 15% of the corn produced in the past has been used for animal
feed. Recently demand for corn has exceeded supply and substantial imports
of corn and sorghum have been necessary as shown below:
Corn Imports                Sorghum Imports
C & F Value                C & F Value
Year            tons           (US$'000)        tons       (US$'000)
1969          25,788            1,560           -            -
1970           1,015                9           -
1971          54,764           3,304             -
1972         100,465           8,569            -
1973          96,123           9,871             -           -
1974         110,000           15,878         20,113         773
4.        Corn production increased by 32% during 1969-74 to 2.29 million
tons. This increase has been brought about essentially by an expansion of
area under crop and the average yield remains low at 0.8 m.t./ha compared
to 2.0 m.t./ha in Thailand. Corn production is in the hands of mainly
small farmers who cultivate 10 ha or less and 80% of the grain is used
for human food. In addition about 30% by weight of the grains is avail-
able for feed as milling by-products. In September, 1973 an ambitious
national program of supervised credit (Masaganang Maisan) was launched
to increase the supply of corn, sorghum and soyabean. Phase 1 of this
program failed to have significant impact but there is more hope for
increased production of corn in Phases 2 and 3 in 1975. Reasons for
the failure of Phase 1 include: (i) dilution of effort over all regions
including those less suited to corn production; (ii) use of seed from
unimproved varieties; (iii) poor quality HYV seed; (iv) lack of drying
and storage facilities and marketing outlets for extra grain when pro-
duced; and (v) misuse of fertilizer provided under the program. The
program is being improved and yield increases are expected by the Gov-
ernment for both white and yellow corn over the next two to three years.
The target area in Phase 2 for planting under supervision has been reduced
by 30% to 492,000 ha. This is concentrated largely in Mindanao where the
climate is most suitable for growing corn. The seed supply position is
better organized with supervised credit being provided only to farmers
who obtain seed from the Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI). Unfortunately,
the BPI will not be able to supply seed of high yielding varieties to all
farmers under the program in Phase 2 and much of the HYV seed available is
not resistant to downey mildew (which is the most important disease holding
down production in the Philippines). Seed is still being bulked up and it
will take a few years to get into widespread commercial use. The germination
of HYV seed is sometimes low because of poor drying and storage and the BPI



ANNEX 4
Page 3
are hoping to solve this problem by providing air-conditioned storage units
at 22 strategic locations throughout the country. A lack of working capital
is a constraint to HYV seed procurement by BPI. Providing credit for special
corn seeds and drying and storage facilities through the BPI and for farmers
involved in certified seed production could be a specific aspect of the Masa-
ganang Maisan program.
5.        Through the Masaganang Maisan program, the Government's target is
to achieve an average yield of 2 tons/ha on the 16% of the total corn land
under the program. While this is undoubtably an ambitious target, some
increase in production of corn might be expected over the next few years.
This may largely offset the increased demand for feedgrains caused by ex-
pansion in the pig and poultry industries.
6.        Sorghum is a relatively minor crop but has come into more promi-
nence since 1971. In 1972-73 production was 6,542 tons, which although over
100% down on the previous year still represented far greater production than
in earlier years. The Government's target under the Masaganang Maisan pro-
gram is for 18,200 tons in 1975. Sorghum has reasonably good prospects as
a subsititute for corn in downey mildew areas, being resistent to this dis-
ease. It also has the added advantage of tolerating slightly harsher soil
moisture conditions and is therefore likely to be more suited to marginal
rainfall areas than corn. Problems arise with the crop due to difficulty
of threshing and marketing. Threshing is particularly a problem for small
farmers at the moment due to the unsuitability of rice threshers for the
job and as yet no large producers are equipped to handle the crop. Apart
from the marketing problems, which equally apply to corn, sorghum is not
presently preferred by small farmers because the price is not as good as
that for corn. In times of scarcity the price of corn rises whereas the
price of sorghum remains at the quoted NGA guaranteed minimum. Sorghum
is not expected to contribute to a rapid increase in feedgrain production
and at the present time it would appear that increased sorghum production
will largely come from expansion of area planted by larger farmers who
mechanically harvest the crop and who arrange contracts for sale to feed-
millers.
7.        Feedgrain production is likely to be enhanced through General
Order 47 which requires large corporations in the Philippines to produce
annually or import sufficient rice or corn to feed their labor force.
Alternatively they may produce feedgrains including yellow corn, sorghum
and soyabeans. This order could account for an additional 80,000 ha of
new land planted or a larger area of existing corn or rice land being
intensified in production.  While rice is expected to be the crop most
affected, insufficient land for irrigated development could mean that
a significant area is planted to feedgrains.  Because of the relatively
low financial returns of corn or uncertainty attached to new crops such
as soyabean and sorghum, medium sized non-subsistence farmers who are not
affected by G.O.47 are not expected to be attracted into few feedgrain en-
terprises. In fact DBP's existing special financing for soyabean, sorghum
and corn hias been disappointing in uptake. The credit requirements of the
traditional small corn growers who are likely to remain in the industry



ANNEX 4
Page 4
are provided for under the Masaganang Maisan program through the PNB and
rural banks. If only by default of the other sectors, the best opportuni-
ties for increasing feedgrain production in the Philippines lies with the
traditional sector. The very large 2.7 million ha corn crop base with a
low average yield has room for considerable technical improvements and a
very small increase in yields over this wide base could offset the incre-
mental feedgrain shortfall arising from development under the proposed
Project.
8.        The quality of commercial rations would be improved by the implemen-
tation of the seed quality control program component of the Project.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Slaughterhouses
Introduction
1.        The project proposal submitted by DBP included a component for
the construction in the outer islands of two large slaughterhouses with
chilling facilities. Funds allocated for the same purpose in the first
project are still not committed and there are now some doubts as to
whether a major expansion of slaughtering facilities in the south aimed
at shipping carcasses instead of animals to Manila is the best strategy
for the industry. Comparative data for the shipping of carcasses against
that for live animals needs detailed review and the available data needs
to be checked by controlled trials. Furthermore, the extensive idle
slaughter, processing and storage capacity in the Greater Manila areas
should be taken into account.
2.        There is, however, a need for finance for the replacement of small
municipal slaughter facilities in the provincial cities following Government's
decision to improve the very unsatisfactory slaughter arrangements for local
meat consumption. Such replacement facilities can be self-financing, will
improve sanitary conditions and reduce wastage, particularly that caused
by poor flaying and curing of hides. Funds are proposed for the upgrading
and resiting of ten municipal slaughter facilities of a relatively simple
kind and DBP agreed to this alternative proposal.
Municipal Slaughterhouses
3.        During appraisal, 12 provincial slaugtherhouses and local meat
markets were inspected as well as the main slaughterhouse in Manila and
five other private slaughterhouses. The available basic data on slaughter-
houses is at Appendix I.
4.        There is an urgent need for new municipal slaughterhouses through-
out the Philippines. In general, slaughtering operations are archaic, un-
hygienic and inefficient. Invariably work is carried out on the floor in
very unsanitary conditions, many buildings lack light and water, and apart
from scalding vats there is no equipment. With only a few exceptions all
slaughterhouse operations, flaying, dehairing, dressing and cutting, are
carried out by teams of workers employed by the butchers. The cost of this
labor ranges from t 8 to t 20 per head of cattle or carabao and t 5 to t 10
for pigs. Butchers and their labor crowd the limited space and contribute
to uncleanliness. The disposal of effluent usually pollutes muunicipal
drains, open litches or rivers. If meat inspection takes place the exami-
nation is cursory and, so far as condemnations are concerned, ineffective.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
The lack of facilities and of skilled staff ensures that the slaughterhouses
in the provincial cities, which serve large sections of the population, do
not observe minimum hygiene requirements and are a serious hazard to public
health. Most slaughterhouses are sited in very congested areas and should
be resited away from crowded residential and commercial areas.
Meat Inspection
5.        Although many slaughterhouses have meat inspectors in attendance
there is no apparent examination of carcasses or viscera. Carcasses are
generally stamped as being passed by the meat inspector as a matter of
course. Some meat inspectors keep records showing the incidence of dis-
ease but there is no evidence of actual disposal by destruction of con-
demned meat or offal. Under the existing poor conditions which prevail
at all slaughterhouses and without any facilities for inspection it would
be futile to attempt to enforce routine examination. Furthermore, butchers,
who together with their assistants slaughter and dress their own animals,
would resist any attempt by the meat inspectors to condemn and destroy
either carcass meat or offal.
6.        For Public Health reasons it is important to introduce an effec-
tive meat inspection service. A good start in this direction will be made
possible by the establishment under the Project of the ten new slaughter-
houses in which provision is made in both buildings and equipment for the
efficient examination of carcasses and offal. To overcome possible butcher
resistance to meat inspection through fear of losses a compensation scheme
could be introduced to cover all carcasses (or quarters) which are condemned.
Without some form of compensation, the work of the meat inspectors will con-
tinue to be ineffective and their position in the slaughterhouse will remain
untenable. Since meat inspection must be carried out by suitably qualified
and responsible personnel a training program will be required in the future
if effective meat inspection is introduced.
Slaughterhouse Fees
7.        Municipal slaughterhouses are considered to be revenue raising
undertakings of local governments which have the sole right to establish
public slaughterhouses. Operating costs are kept to a minimum and there
is no evidence of any maintenance work being carried out. In most instances
the municipality provides only a covered concrete slab with an improvised
scalding vat. The municipal staff usually comprise a fee collector, a
meat inspector and one or two cleaners. Typical fees charged are as
follows:
Cattle         Pigs
Slaughter fee for public consumption         1  5.00          ) 3.00
Permit-to-slaughter fee                         2.00            1.00
Corral or stockyard fee                         0.50            0.30
Anti-mortem inspection fee                      0.90            0.60
Post-mortem inspection fee /a                    7.50           3.00
J 15.90         I' 7.90
/a   Based on carcass eight of cattle-150 kg, pigs-60 kg.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Slaughterhouse charges vary from province to province but the anti-mortem
and post-mortem fees appear to be standard in all areas. In the past the
number and range of fees were much larger.  Under Presidential Decree No. 7
dated September, 1972, a large number of fees were abolished, but further
consolidation is desirable to allow the introduction of a single standard
fee for each type of animal. The slaughterhouses proposed in the project
would be self-financing from revenues collected.
Government Policy
8.        Recognizing the dangers of the position the National Meat Inspec-
tion Commission (NMIC) has issued instructions to the provincial and municipal
authorities to rebuild or renovate the slaughterhouses to bring them to the
desired sanitary standards and ensure meat inspection is carried out effec-
tively. The NMIC is authorized to close down any slaughterhouse which does
not comply with this order within a specific date. It appears that at appraisal
only the city authorities at Iloilo have made any attempt to respond to the NMIC
instruction, but their work is held up through lack of funds.
Project Proposal
9.        It is proposed that ten new municipal slaughterhouses be financed
under the Project at a total cost of about US$1.9 million. Details of the
investment costs are set out in Annex 14. Design details are discussed in
Appendix 2. Operating costs and debt service is met from revenue and the
financial rate of return is estimated to be 17%. Appendix 3 discusses hide
quality improvement which could be a significant secondary benefit to the
proposed slaughterhouse investments.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Slaughterhouse Facilities and Staffing
1.        The Bureau of Animal Industry has compiled details of slaughter-
houses with the object of giving provisional accreditation pursuant to an
order by the Department of Agriculture. The report from all areas are not
yet complete but the available information indicates the need for improved
conditions.
Number of Provinces                             60
Number of Cities                                46
Public SLaugnterhouses                       63
Private Slaughterhouses                      20
Number of Municipalities                       460
Public Slaughterhouses                      460
Private Slaughterhouses                       18
Total number of slaughterhouses                561
Technical Staff
Veterinarians                             49
Meat Inspectors (municipal)              257
Meat Inspectors (BAI)                     10
Livestock Inspectors (BAI)                36
Sanitary Inspectors (municipal)           15
Total                                          367
Location of Slaughterhouses
In or near the market                     24%
Near residences                           32%
In open fields or spaces                   3%
Near the sea or river                      4%
Not recorded                               4%



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
Existing Slaughterhouses
Scalding Vats                            100%
Electric light                            39%
Water supplies                            63%
Meat delivery van                          4%
Toilets for workers                       18%
Scraping platforms, viscera plat-
forms, inspection tables,
boning tables                           18%
Hanging rails, meat hooks                 19%
Pulley hoists                              3%
Gambrels, floor rings, meat trees         19%
Scales                                    18%
Source:  BAI



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Municipal Slaughterhouses - Design Details
1.        The Project would include the construction, replacement or up-
grading of ten municipal slaughterhouses to improve existing inadequate
facilities.
Design and Contract Arrangements
2.        Most slaughterhouses conform to certain principals of basic design,
irrespective of minor variations in layout and equipment. The modest through-
put of the municipal slaughterhouses proposed under the Project call for a
simple structure, suitably equipped so that it can function efficiently and
economically under good sanitary conditions. A combination of technical ex-
pertise, knowledge of local conditions, consumer habits and butcher's inter-
ests must be applied in the final planning if the slaughterhouses are to
operate successfully.
3.        Firms specializing in slaughterhouse design, construction and
operations should be engaged for the preparatory work. They would be
required to prepare preliminary drawings together with the construction
and engineering specifications required for tender documents. The designs
would be produced in close association with the BAI and NMIC and the provin-
cial health authorities. Turnkey contracts would be awarded. The contract
would include not only the construction buildings but also the supply of all
plant and machinery and detailed engineering work. AnciUary facilities,
utility services, administration offfices and staff amenities would also
be covered by the contract. Contracts for slaughterhouses would be subject
to local competitive bidding, since their small size (about US$155,000 each)
and scattered locations and phasing are not likely to be attractive to in-
ternational contractors.
Location and Site
4.        Slaughterhouses would be sited in a strategic position for live-
stock procurement, either from the local market or for supplies by road
transport, and for access to consumer markets. The location, which
should be well away from built-up areas or those zoned for future
residential development, must also satisfy other basic criteria. These
include proximity to a source of labor and technical services, adequate
water supplies and easy means of effluent disposal. A constant electrical
supply is required. The area for the small slaughterhouses proposed should
not be less than 3 ha. However, it is desirable to acquire more land to



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
allow for: (i) possible future expansion; (ii) the holding of livestock
in an emergency; and (iii) to provide ready means for the disposal of
effluent, paunch contents and slaughterhouse wastes. The belief, accepted
generally in the Philippines, that it is an advantage for the slaughterhouse
to be located adjacent to a river or the sea is incorrect. The disposal of
effluent is discussed below.
Water
5.        The slaughterhouse must have an adequate supply of water (of drink-
ing water quality) which can be distributed at a good pressure throughout the
plant and a sufficient supply of hot water must be available during working
hours. If a constant and ample municipal supply of water is not available
then any hydrological survey would be a prerequisite of site selection and
approval. Provision has been made in the investment cost estimates for a
tubewell and piping. Water requirements are about 300 gallons for each
minimal unit throughput. Slaughterhouses would be provided with a head
tank having a capacity of not less than 6,000 gallons. To achieve the
desired standards of chlorination a small automatic chlorine dosing unit
is included in the equipment list for the slaughterhouses.
Disposal of Effluent
6.        It is unlikely that water consumption will greatly exceeed 300
gallons per animal unit and with the throughput of livestock envisaged,
the disposal of effluent would not present any serious problems providing
that site requirements are met and additional agricultural land is avail-
able adjacent to the slaughterhouse site. Since practically the whole of
the offals and organs are disposed of as edible products there would be
comparatively little material remaining for processing into by-products
and therefore little difficulty with excess fats in the sewerage. In the
construction of the slaughterhouse waste traps would be located at strat-
egic points in the drainage system to collect large solids from the ef-
fluent. Ideally, the site layout would be arranged so that the land falls
away from the "dirty" side of the buildings, that is, the lairage, slaughter-
floor and offal cleaning sections, to open land below. Such a situation
lends itself to a simple gravity process of effluent disposal, first through
a catch basin which would trap fats and solids, then through filter beds and
finally to channel irrigation of crops. The slaughterhouse drains would
lead directly to a catch basin which can be located a few meters from the
premises. The catch basin would be a conventional over-under gravity flow
system with 4 to 5 chambers. A pump would be installed at a discharge end
of the catch basin with the suction pipe leading to a pump in the floor of
the last chamber. This allows the catch basin to be pumped free of liquids
for periodical cleaning. From the catch basin the effluent gravitates to
filter beds which should be located well beyond the buildings. The size
of the filter beds would be about 8' x 16' with a surrounding wall about
2' high and with a smooth concrete bottom sloping towards a discharge
pipe at one end. A layer of stones about 2" to 3" in diameter is placed
on the floor of the bed followed by a layer of small stones and finally



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
a covering of sand a few inches deep. The inlet for the effluent is
through a perforated pipe placed above the center of the bed. Three
such beds would be needed to permit them to be cleaned in rotation by
changing the sand. The effluent is then channeled to a lower section
of the lands for irrigation purposes. It is possible to raise a variety
of crops, particularly fodder, with the recovered water which could amount
to as much as 80% of the total water used in the slaughterhouse.
Buildings
7.        The slaughterhouse would be designed and constructed to meet the
sanitary standards set down by the Public Health and Veterinary Departments.
The main building would be a single-storey structure of simple design to
contain one slaughter section for cattle and carabao and another for pigs.
Provision would be made for an efficient meat inspection system. Carcasses
from both slaughter floors would be carried on rails to a hanging hall which
is part of the main building. A small area would be partitioned off to serve
as a detention bay which would hold doubtful carcasses awaiting further exam-
ination by the meat inspectors. The present consuming market is accustomed
to purchasing only fresh meat and for this reason chill rooms and refrigera-
tion plants have not been included in the investment costs. However, provi-
sion should be made for holding carcasses in the future and therefore a space
would be provided in the hanging room area to accommodate a small pre-fabri-
cated chill room unit. A loading bay for carcasses and offals would adjoin
the carcass hanging hall. A section of the main building, adjoining the
slaughter floors would be partitioned off for cleaning and washing the
viscera.
8.        The brick walls throughout the slaughterhouse building would be
finished on the inside to give an impervious washable surface. Floors
would be of concrete with a minimum slope of 1 to 60 to standard drains,
the floors would be finished with a non-slip and impact-resistant surface.
Ample ventilation is required throughout the building and all openings must
be screened. Working and inspection areas must be provided with good light-
ing.
9.        All intestines, lungs, blood, etc. are sold as edible products
and very little remains for processing as by-products, apart from condemned
materials. However, it would be necessary to provide for any material that
might be availably and a separate building is proposed for this purpose.
This would be a shed-type stucture having brick walls with a smooth, im-
pervious finish on the inside and a good concrete floor with adequate
drainage leading to the catch basin. The same building could accommodate
a small maintenance workshop, the boiler, and laundering facilities. A
well ventilated shed would be provided for the salting and storage of
hides. Administration offices and the amenities section (changing rooms,
showers and toilets) would require sound brick buildings suitably finished
and equipped.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 4
10.       To minimize fly nuisance and insect infestation, the cattle and
carabao lairage and the pig pens holding livestock awaiting slaughter would
be located well away from the slaughterhouse. The pens would be connected
to the stunning boxes by a race or crush. The livestock pens would be pro-
vided with a roof for shade and have concrete floors pitched towards drains
which should be located outside the enclosures. The pens would be surrounded
by sanitary curbs to prevent the spread of manure and liquids beyond the en-
closures. Drinking water would be supplied to each cattle pen. A small
quarantine enclosure would be required for any animals which are not passed
for slaughter following veterinary examination.
Plant and Equipment
11.       Details of the plant, machinery and equipment required for the
provincial slaughterhouses is set out in Annex 14, Table 1. This equipment
list would be used as a guide when calling for estimates or tenders. It
is likely that individual firms would wish to add to the list or suggest
alternatives in accordance with their own particular manufacturing program
or slaughterhouse design but offers in this direction would be carefully
reviewed. Complex and costly machinery would not be required to process
the modest throughput of these small plants, moreover, savings can be
achieved by local manufacture of many items of equipment. Hanging rails
and supporting steelwork could be fabricated without difficulty and the
guillotine doors, working platforms, paunching tables, offal tanks, paunch
and hide trucks could all be constructed in the Philippines.
12.       All equipment coming into contact with edible products would
preferably be constructed of stainless steel. Working platforms and other
heavy equipment would be galvanized. Tubular legs would be used on all
tables, platforms and tank stands. Angle iron which collects dirt should
be avoided and wood should not be used for any purpose in the production
areas. Wash basins and knife sterilizers would be strategically located
in the slaughter and dressing sections of the slaughterhouse.
13.       A strict routine of preventive maintenance must be introduced and
adhered to. Manufacturers of plant and equipment would give details of the
routine maintenance required for the items which they supply and they would
also furnish a list of recommended spares which would be acquired with the
plant.
14.       For the cattle/carabao slaughter floor a simple bed system of
flaying is proposed using mobile dressing trolleys. Back flaying would
be from an elevated position using a manual hoist. The small daily slaugh-
ter of 10-20 animals would not justify electrical stunning equipment, elec-
trical hoists or mechanical flaying machines. However, the latter can be
readily introduced when required. The pig section has a larger throughput
and would be equipped with electrical stunning apparatus, mechanical scald-
ing tanks and a dehairing machine.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 5
15.       The small amount of inedible material which would be available
for processing does not warrant the high cost of purchasing or operating
pressure melters and centrifuges or expellers. Instead, any rendering
which may be necessary would be carried out by prolonged cooking in
locally made tanks fitted with open and closed steam coils. A small
grinding machine is included on the list of equipment to break up any
by-products.
16.       Provision is made for the cleaning of intestines and tripes with
a conical tripe washer, tables and washing tanks which have been included
on the list of equipment, the small quantities of materials to be cleaned
does not justify the cost of mechanized plant. All animals passing through
the slaughterhouse would be numbered and the viscera would be carried out
by the butchers and their staff until such time that the slaughterhouse
authority can undertake the work. To maintain good sanitary conditions
in the plant as well as the meat delivery van and also for identification
purposes, the butcher would be provided with plastic bags to carry the
cleaned intestines.
17.       Steam would be required to heat water for the dehairing of pigs,
to clean the slaughterhouse and plant, to render inedible products and to
sterilize knives, cleavers and other utensils. A small oil-fired boiler
using diesel fuel oil would be provided for these purposes. The boiler
would be supplied with all necessary valves, gauges, pump and electrical
fitting for automatic control.
18.       The slaughterhouse production staff would be provided with pro-
tective clothing. To maintain the garments in a clean condition a washing
machine and spin dryer is allowed for in sundry cost items.
Hygiene
19.       Each of the slaughterhouses would be provided with an amenities
building fitted and equipped with showers, wash basins, clothes lockers
and toilets. Each person reporting for duty would be required to wash
his hands, preferably in a solution of sodium hypochlorite, and would
be issued with clean overalls, apron and cap.
20.       Prior to the commencements of the day's operations, each section
of the slaughterhouse should be washed down with hot water. Throughout
the shift, floors should be constantly swept free of waste and washed
down. At the conclusion of the day's work the entire slaughterhouse,
floors, walls and equipment should be washed down thoroughly with hot
water, to be followed by spraying with a solution of bactericide. Par-
ticular attention should be given to drains.
21.       Any trays or containers used in processing should be left in an
inverted position after washing. All knives, steels, cleavers, etc. should
be sterilized in boiling water at the end of the day's work and again before
resuming work next day. All waste traps should be cleared daily and at least



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 6
twice a week the catch basin should be emptied of effluent and thoroughly
cleaned. The livestock pens and slaughterhouse surrounds must be cleaned
daily and sprayed with insecticides. A constant watch should be kept for
possible breeding placed for flies or other insects.
Meat Delivery Service
22.       Any improvement in the standard of sanitary conditions in the
slaughterhouses would to a great extent be nullified unless equal atten-
tion is paid to the methods of transport and distribution of the meat.
It is proposed to introduce a meat delivery service at each of the
municipal slaughterhouses to transport both carcasses and offals to
the markets. For this service the butchers would be charged a fixed
official rate. Full use should be made of the meat trucks which are
included in the investment estimates. When the specially constructed
trucks are available the transport of meat and offals in open vans,
carts or any other unhygienic means would be prohibited.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hide Quality Improvement
1.        The quality of hides produced in the Philippines is very poor.  The
Tanners Association of the Philippines reported that all locally produced
hides would generally pass only as thirds by international standards. Vis-
its to 12 provincial slaughterhouses, the large slaughterhouse at Tondo,
Greater Manila and the FTI slaughterhouse in Greater Manila confirmed this.
Consequently the country does not benefit fully from its hides industry and
must import considerable quantities of finished leather and raw hides. Sub-
stantial losses of quality, as well as of actual hides, occur from the begin-
ning of the slaughtering process and throughout the production procedures
which follow.
2.        Identical methods of slaughtering and flaying are followed at
all slaughterhouses. After stunning the beast is thrown to the ground for
slaughtering and at this stage in many slaughterhouses the first downgrading
of the hide takes place. Instead of the normal cut from chin to brisket,
the hide is opened up on the side of the neck and the jugular is cut, this
allows the blood to be collected in the dewlap and scooped out without loss.
Modern flaying techniques are not followed. With few exceptions all flaying
is carried out at ground level which results in cuts and gouges in the hide.
In some instances, fleshing is carried out on the ground and further damage
is done to the hide by gouging. In one large slaughterhouse the tail is
removed prior to flaying, thus leaving a large V shape gap about 6 inches
deep in the valuable back section of the hide.
3.        Careless flaying by unskilled workers using unsuitable tools, is
followed by equally unsatisfactory and careless methods of curing. Few
slaughterhouses have an adequate supply of water and the hides are sold by
the butchers to dealers, exslaughterhouse, in an unwashed state. The dealer
attempts to preserve the hide by spreading a few kilos of salt over the hides
and then leaving them to dry. With an unwashed hide, smeared with blood and
paunch contents, hair slop and putrifaction follows especially if curing is
delayed, as it so often is. As a result of these procedures only poor qual-
ity hides reach the tanneries in Manila. The industry estimates that only
48% of locally produced hides is usable compared with 85% of imported hides.
On the basis of the local production (8,600 tons) and import figures (553
tons) for 1973, only a 7% increase in the effective yield of locally pro-
duced hides would have been sufficient to offset the need to import raw
hides. This increase could be achieved by the provision of proper facil-
ities at the slaughterhouse, the introduction of improved flaying techniques
together with correct methods of curing. Hide improvement would be one of



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
the important objectives of the provincial slaughterhouses to be financed
under the proposed Project.
4.        Plant layout and equipment would direct particular attention to
the preparation of hides in order that they may command the best possible
prices from the tanneries. It is proposed to employ only trained staff
using correct tools for removing the hides, however, the results of good
flaying techniques would be nullified if the butcher and hide trader con-
tinue to use poor curing methods. To overcome the existing wasteful prac-
tices it is proposed that the slaughterhouse authority purchase the hide
for cash at a fixed sum per piece directly from the butchers; this would
be to the benefit of the butcher who presently obtains a low price for an
inferior hide and often must wait for payment.
5.        Slaughterhouse staff would flesh the hides, in a section of the
main slaughterhouse building since the fleshings are edible. Washing and
salting will be carried out in another building provided especially for
hides. Good quality salt for processing hides is readily available. A
2% mix of sodium silocofluoride in the salt will help to overcome possible
bacterial changes and discoloration of the hides.
6.        The greatly increased return obtainable for improved hides will
contribute to slaughterhouse viability. Present price differentials for
salted hides are as follows:
Cattle         Carabao
Firsts                    90 - 95          88 - 90
Seconds                   70 - 75          78 - 80
Thirds                       50               60
On a national basis the additional income from Improved hides could have a
marked effect upon the industry apart from import substitution for raw hides.
Based on 1974 slaughter figures, if 50% of the hides could be up-graded one
stage, their value would be increased by some ) 5.6 million.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Demand, Marketing, Transport and Prices of
Livestock and Livestock Products
Consumption
1.        The Philippine people are basically consumers of fish (71% of total
meat and fish intake) and pork, with pork accounting for 53% of total meat
consumed (Table 1). Poultry meat, however, now competes well with pork and
has increased its share of total meat consumption from 13% in 1960 to 18% in
1972. Beef meat is traditionally more restricted to higher income groups
but has also increased its share over the past decade. Although meat and
egg production has risen steadily the increase has not been able to do more
than keep pace with population growth and per capita intake has not signifi-
cantly increased over the past decade. Indeed, surveys carried out by the
National Food and Agricultural Council since 1970 indicate that per capita
consumption has slightly decreased because of high prices and erosion of
real incomes due to general inflation. Action on production and prices
is needed is self-sufficiency in meat and eggs is to be attained.
Marketing
2.        The Greater Manila area, with about 4 million people (10% of the
total population) and high per capita income, is the most important meat
consuming center. In 1974, of total registered slaughtering, Manila accounted
for 30% of carabaos, 17% of cattle, 23% of hogs and 41% of chickens (Table
2). Although these figures are not good measures of total slaughter, par-
ticularly for chickens and pigs, a large proportion of which are slaughtered
in the backyard for home consumption or in abattoirs not officially inspected,
they provide an idea of the importance of the Greater Manila area as the main
market output. Other cities provide secondary markets, but the main flow of
livestock is from the south and north to Manila.
3.        The livestock marketing system is still largely traditional.  Farm-
ers sell livestock by the head at the farmgate to traders and middlemen who
provide transportation to the consuming centers for resale to butchers or
other middlemen. When not slaughtered for local consumption, the animals
are sent to Luzon either for slaughtering or for sale as feeders on one of
the auction markets. This usually involves inter-island sea shipments of
up to 1,500 km on general cargo vessels.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Goverment Policies and Price Control
4.        The Government has manifested its concern about better livestock
product marketing in several ways: the creation of a National Meat Inspec-
tion Commission; improvement in several auction markets (Presidential Decree
No. 7); a growing interest in a new type of farmers associations (Samahang
Nayons) that could become effective marketing channels, and the creation
of Food Terminal Incorporated (FTI).
5.        Presidential Decree No. 7 (September 1972) abolished a series of
fees and charges imposed and collected by Provincial Governors and City and
Municipal Mayors on the production, slaughter, transportation and marketing
of livestock and animal products, and created the National Meat Inspection
Commission to set up standards in meat handling. The Government also at-
tempted to improve information on livestock auction markets by introducing
price posting and grading, and bringing in Government scales. There is,
however, some reluctance on the part of traders to use scales, but the
dissemination of price information may prove useful. Several new livestock
markets have been created and more are planned.
6.        Price control legislation was introduced in 1972, primarily to
cope with consequences of typhoon damAge in Luzon. The legal ceilings
to retail prices of the low quality cuts of all types of meat were last
increased in January 1974. The Price Control Council first determines
prices in the Greater Manila area and local councils then fix prices in
the provinces taking into account distance to the Manila area and local
supply and demand conditions. The legislation is unenforceable, however,
since on most public markets there is no selection of cuts. Meat is sold
in heaps, including red meat, intestines, offals and bones, and beef and
carabeef are hard to differentiate. Limited evidence on one Manila market
where there was some grading suggests that ceilings are not rigidly enforced
(Table 3). Moreover the legislation does not apply to higher quality cuts,
nor to chilled or frozen meat, which excludes all meat sold in supermarkets,
to restaurants, and to meat processors and institutional buyers, which chan-
nel much of the meat consumed.
Food Terminal Incorporated
7.        For several years the main thrust of the Government in marketing
has been the building, organization and operation of the Food Terminal In-
corporated. FTI is part owned by DBP and DBP's chairman is also Chairman
of the FTI board. FTI has huge storage facilities located on a 120 ha area
in the vicinity of Manila and has formal links with some 50 'trading posts'
in the provinces. The construction of the terminal started in 1968 and was
completed in 1973. Fiscal year 1974-75 is the first year of regular opera-
tion. The Central Refrigeration Warehouse covers a floor area of 2.5 ha and
can store up to 12 million kilos of foodstuff. Chilling rooms have a capacity
of 56,000 cubic meters and there is 52,000 cubic meters of freezer rooms.
At present only 5% of this capacity is used, mostly for fruit and vegetables,



ANNIEX 6
Page 3
livestock and poultry, fish and marine products. FTI has recently acquired
large slaughtering and meat processing facilities by taking over the DELTA
abattoir, with a capacity of killing and processing up to 1,000 hogs and
500 head of cattle and carabao per day. The facilities, however, require
restoration at a cost estimated at about f 9 million (US$1.2 million).
8.        The objectives of FTI are to reduce large fluctuations in retail
prices in the Greater Manila Area and in farmgate prices in the provinces
and to provide consumers with steady suppliers and producers with regular
outlets. Trading posts throughout the country buy foodstuff which is sent
to Manila where it is either immediately resold to wholesalers, stored,
according to the Greater Manila supply and demand situation, or eventually
exported. In 1974, FTI received from its trading posts and slaughtered
81,781 hogs, 7,000 cattle, 17,743 carabaos and 9,000 chickens. When storage
is not needed, the animals are resold immediately to wholesalers who can
have them slaughtered in the FTI abattoir or elsewhere. On May 15, 1975,
FTI was storing 138 tons of eggs, 64 tons of broilers, 24 tons of pork of
its own purchases, and 166 tons of eggs, 169 tons of beef and 40 tons of
pork belonging to third parties. However, this occupied only about 5% of
storage capacity.
9.        Out of 45 trading posts, about 15 regularly send livestock to
FTI, totalling on average 600 head a day. The main shipping areas are the
Visayas and South Cotabato. Trading posts may be constituted by provincial
governments, jointly by three municipalities in a province, by active and
registered cooperatives and Samahang Nayons, and by private corporations
or individuals. Applicants must be in a position to generate a minimum
volume of business of f 30,000 a month after six months of operation and
own or have control of a pick-up or a truck. FTI has so far given prefer-
ence largely to private individuals, often livestock dealers, on the basis
that they already have a network of collection points. It is assumed that
competition among dealers in one area is sufficient so that trading agents,
who have a secure outlet in Manila through FTI at a good price, will offer
farmers a better price than their competitors. Without eliminating inter-
mediaries this strategy is thus intended to reduce margins to the benefit
of producers and consumers. Trading posts receive advanced payment for 80%
of the local price of an animal. They receive the difference between this
amount and the Manila price of the animal at disembarcation in Manila when
the animal is weighed. Nothing prevents farmers (provided they cultivate
more than 20 ha) or farmers' associations from constituting trading posts
and securing transport of their animals to Manila. Under this scheme farm-
ers would have received in April, 1975 ' 6.9 per kilo liveweight for their
broilers, t 7.10 for hogs and for cattle ) 6.10 for Batangas type and f 5.10
for ranch type animals. In practice only large organized farmers are able
to take advantage of this price information and of special shipping space
arrangements they may secure for themselves because of their size. Small
farmers, uninformed and reluctant to leave their farms, always resort to
traders. The rationale underlying FTI preference for private individuals
may be valid in many cases but there is a danger that the benefits of the
operation will not be shared with the producers at all if there is only
limited competition among traders in one area, or if for instance, trading



ANNEX 6
Page 4
agents are at the same time input dealers. For small producers, a good
solution would be a multiplication of livestock markets to which they could
themselves, or their Samahang Nayon, bring their animals and where a repre-
sentative of FTI, either a cooperative or an official appointee, would be
purchasing and taking care of shipments. In marketing broilers, a special
difficulty arises from the fact that outlets are tied up with feed and chick
supply. Unless FTI enters contract growing, there is little chance that it
will ever constitute an alternative outlet for producers. Consequently,
since FTI needs to rely on regular supplies, it is attempting to secure
contracts with producers. Negotiations have been started for the acquisi-
tion of a broiler processing plant or the restoration of the DELTA line
and for contractual arrangements with smaller hatcheries and feed millers
for the supply of inputs to producers.
10.       Another problem at the moment is the difficulty of securing inter-
islaud shiDping space. FTI is making special arrangements on commercial
vessels but is LIiALteL Cj  a 6E rnral shortage due to a very rapidly increas-
ing demand.  It is estimated that vessels presently handle 4,500 head a snth
from South Cotabato but that the area covered by the 5 trading posts in this
region has a potential of 8,000 to 10,000 head of swine and beef-cattle a
month. There is a general awareness of this problem and plans for livestock
boats are being studied by FTI and the shipping companies. DBP, which is
heavily involved in finmcing FTI, is also encouraging private firms to
enter the livestock transport business.
Pig Marketing and Prices
11.       The pig population is relatively evenly spread out all over the
islands. A large proportion of pigs are raised as scavengers and slaughtered
in the backyard for home consumption or sale on the local market. Non-farm
production of pork meat is estimated at 25-30% of the total. Large commer-
cial piggeries, which have expanded in the last few years, particularly in
Central Luzon and South Cotabato, usually sell directly to restaurants, meat
processors and supermarkets and make arrangements themselves for the trans-
port of their animals. Integrated operations, in which pig farmers have
contracted outlets with their feed suppliers, are limited to the Manila
area (about 10% of commercial piggeries).
12.       In 1973-74, 352,000 hogs arrived in Manila by rail or ship from
outlying provinces. Some 94% of hogs commercially raised in Bulacan,
Cotabato, Davaos, Negros, Cebu and Antique are marketed in the Manila
area, involving extensive inter-island transportation. The number of
intermediaries between the producer and the consumer can be large and
the system works along similar lines as for cattle. A hog weighing 80-90
kilo bought at the farmgate at t 5.80 per kilo liveweight in General Santos
is resold alive at t 7.20 in Manila to another trader or wholesaler. Trans-
portation costs do not exceed f 55 per head (Table 4) so that total net mar-
gin of traders involved averages some f 50 per head, i.e. 10% of sales pro-
ceeds. Total margins of all middlemen average t 200 per head.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Income of Handlers Out of One Locally Produced Hog (80 kg)
Retailed on Central Luzon Meat Markets
1.   Proceeds of Retail Sales        Pesos
Red meat = 57.6 kg at ' 10/kg  576
Red offals - 6.5 kg at f 8/kg   51
Intestines = 6.4 kg at 1 5/kg   32
Total                      659
2.   Famgate Price
80 kg at 5.50/kg liveweight    440
3.   Expenses between producers and
Consumers
Trucking to slaughterhouses        3
Slaughter fees:
-    corral                         .3
-    ante-mortem                    .6
-    post mortem                   4.5
-    slaughtering services         4.0
-    meat delivery                 1.2
Total expenses               14
4.   Net Margins                      104
13.       Farmgate prices for hogs vary according to breeds and regions.
For upgraded pigs, they vary between r 5.8/kilo liveweight in South Cotabato
to t 6.8 to 7.0 in Central Luzon. The Philippine people have a predilection
for 2 month-old weaners which fetch about t 15/kilo liveweight. In December
1970, producers in the vicinity of Manila were receiving be.tween 1 3.5 and
4 a kilo liveweight, but this price had doubled by December, 1974. Pork
usually retails at t 11-12 a kilo boneless, and this has also doubled
since 1970. Although retail prices were down in May, 1975, partly because
of seasonal factors (e.g. school vacations), there has been a general tend-
ency for prices to stabilize since September, 1974. This has been attri-
buted by pig raisers to large quantities of cheap beef imports that compete
with pork meat on the Manila "institutional" market. It is also possibly
linked with the recent reduction of the rate of inflation. As in the case
of beef, and for the same reasons, it does not seem that price control ceil-
ings, unchanged since January, 1974, have had any significant impact on farm-
gate prices, nor have higher feed costs. Since 1971, the price of feed has
increased at about the same pace as farmgate prices. There is no grading
nor any cut selection on most meat markets. Imports of pork meat are small
and essentially consists of fat trims for bacon production.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Cattle Marketing and Prices
14.       Of the total cattle population 42% is located in Mindamo and 25%
in Central Luzon and Southern Tagalog. Animals are transported live by
ship, truck and rail over large distances for slaughter in the municipal
slaughterhouses. Cattle trading between islands is a profitable business.
Traders buy cattle from barrio agents, town buyers or livestock markets and
ship them to Luzon for resale to other dealers, or wholesalers. Inter-
island shipments may take up to 7 days in normal times and longer during
the typhoon season. In 1974 about 56,500 head of cattle and 52,000 head
of carabao arrived in Manila at North Harbor or the railway station. Of
these 28% were from the Western Visayas (particularly Iloilo), 15% from
the Central Visayas and 15% from Southern Mindanao. Most of the animals
were to be slaughtered, with the rest being sent by road or rail to live-
stock markets. Marketing channels for cattle and carabao are characterized
by the number of middlemen bet"eeu producers and consumers.  Animals usually
go through 3 or 4 different hands before reaching the consumer (a barrio
agent, a town buyer, a butcher-retailer and very often a sub-retailer).
According to a recent survey by the Department of Agriculture, there is
a mark-up of t 100 per head at the level of the barrio agent and V 50 at
the level of the town buyer on an animal bought from the farmer at about
t 1,200. Total net margins between producers and consumers amount to
about 1 200-350 per head, i.e. 20 to 30% of farmgate prices or 15 to 25%
of the proceeds of retail sales.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Typical Income of Local Handlers Out of One Head of
Local Cattle (285-300 kg)
1.   Retail Sales                              Pesos
Hide                                       65
Red Offals                                171
Tongue                                     12 (1 kg at f 12)
Heart                                      15 (1.5 kg atF 10)
Liver                                      42 (3.25 kg at r 13)
Tripes                                     28 (4 kg at t 7)
Intestines                                 50 (10 kg at 7 5)
Spleen, lungs                              20 (4 kg at 7 5)
Blood                                       4
2.   Farmgate Price
295 kg at 7 4.0-4.5 /a                  1,140 to 1,280
3. Maximum Expenses between Farmer
and Consumer
Trucking (if any)                             .5
Slaughtering Fees:
-    Corral                                   .5
-    ante-mortem                              .9
-    post-mortem                            7.5
-    service charge                         8.0
Meat delivery                               3.4
Total                                 20.8
4.   Net Margin                                 220 to 360
/a   Price usually paid for culled animals.
Source: Mission Estimates.
15.       Backyard breeding and fattening is becoming more and more popular
in Luzon with fattening operations being particularly prevalent throughout
Batangas and Pangasinan provinces. Most feeder cattle for these farms
come from the Mindoro, Masbate and Bukidnon provinces. Fattened animals
command higher prices because of the good quality of meat. They are traded
at Urdaneta (Pangasinan Province) and at livestock "auction" markets in
Batangas and from there are sent to Manila by road or rail to be slaugh-
tered. It has been the Government policy in the last few years to promote
such markets aLd create new ones, in order to bring information about prices



ANNEX 6
Page 
down to the producers as much as possible. It is doubtful whether the intro-
duction of Government scales, grading and price posting introduced in 1973,
has had much impact. However, these markets are handling a growing number
of animals. In 1974, about 32,000 animals were sold for slaughter on the
7 Batangas markets, 28,800 for fattening and 1,750 for breeding.
16.       Farmgate prices for cattle have increased considerably since the
appraisal of the first livestock project in 1971. They have almost tripled
in Batangas, and generally speaking in Luzon, and more than doubled else-
where.
Farmgate Prices for Upgraded Cattle
(Pesos per kilo liveweight)
June 1971            May 1975
Batangas                       1.9 to 2.2           6.0 to 6.5
Masbate                        1.8 to 2.0           5.0 to 6.0
Davao                          1.9 to 2.0           4.2 to 4.7
Cagayan de Oro                 1.3 to 1.5           3.5 to 4.0
17.       Culled animals sold for slaughter usually command lower prices -
from t 3.50 to 4.50. Carabaos are usually sold for t 3 to 3.9 per kilo
liveweight. This sharp increase in prices, mainly for high quality meat
cattle, is due to general inflation but is also attributed to a sharp in-
crease in demand from supermarkets and restaurant trades following the
recent dramatic rise in tourism.
18.       Prices of beef have more than doubled since 1970, slightly more
than the consumer price index (232 compared with 207). In supermarkets,
prices range for 1 14 a kilo for forequarter to f 30-40 for selected high
quality hind quarter cuts. In 1974 and during the first months of 1975, low
price frozen meat was imported from Australia. In 1974, the Philippines
imported three times as much beef meat as in 1973 (Table 3, Annex 1), more
than half of it (1,600 tons) from Australia. In March 1975, 750 tons were
imported, mostly from Australia, at CIF prices averaging t 6.30 a kilo car-
cass weight, to be compared with local wholesale prices of more than 3 11.
Estimates based on slaughtering figures indicate that 750 tons would rep-
resent about 40% of monthly beef consumption in the Greater Manila area and
30% of pork consumption. Because high income groups have a strong prefer-
ence for fresh meat, the effect of these imports on prices of quality cuts
is marginal but Australian frozen meat competes directly with cheap fresh
beef and pork meat. Wholesale and retail prices of a kilo of Australian
forequarters are reported to be about t 2 under local prices. There are
two main reasons for this sudden increase in beef imports - the sharp in-
crease in demand connected with tourism and the particularly low current
prices of Australian exports. This last factor should not persist long,
as beef world prices are expected to resume their growth in 2 or 3 years.
Therefore the long term effect of present low Australian prices on
Philippine farmgate prices for cattle should not be significant.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Poultry
19.       There are about 110 million poultry in the Philippines, 40% of
them on non-farm operations. Commercial poultry raising is heavily con-
centrated around Manila, near the feed mills. The most important produc-
ing regions are Southern Tagalog (26% of on-farm chickens), Central Luzon
(16%), Southern Mindanao (19%) and the Western Vizayas (8%). Feed is sent
to the producing farms which are generally located adjacent to the consum-
ing areas.
20.       Specialized egg farms supply an estimated 75% of the nation's
eggs. Eggs from small commercial farms are usually sold to a dealer or
wholesaler who channels them to the retailers, but some producers sell
directly to retailers or consumers. Feed dealers capture a significant
proportion of the market by advancing credit on feed and then adjusting
with egg sales, which usually brings the egg producers lower returns.
Large farms either sell all their eggs to a dealer or have a direct
arrangement with the retail outlets, depending mainly on the distance
of the farm to the consuming centers. Integrated operators at the
moment, who produce 60-70% of the poultry feed, produce about 10% of
the eggs. There is no contract growing for egg production. The cost
of transporting eggs is not a problem and represents a small proportion
of the retail price (about 8% over 100 kilometers).
21.       It is estimated that commercial broiler production now accounts
for about 30% of the nation's poultry meat. The rest consists mainly of
live native birds sold at public markets. Among the commercial units, the
tendency is toward the integration of operations from the feed mill and
hatchery to processing plants and retail outlets. Contract growing is be-
coming more and more important and small non-integrated poultry farms some-
times have difficulty of obtaining feed and chicks. At the present time,
the integrated operations produce about 60-70% of the poultry feed, 95%
of the chicks and control about 70% of the broiler production. There are
5 main integrated companies. They have direct arrangements with institu-
tional buyers for marketing their output, or have their own retail outlets.
22.       Most eggs on public markets are sold assorted at a uniform price
but commercial enterprises grade their output. Farmgate prices for medium
to large eggs range from 35 to 40 centavos a piece and, for broilers f 6.30
to 8.15 a kilo liveweight in Central Luzon. The retail price relationship
between native birds sold alive and upgraded broilers is not clear.
23.       Farmgate prices of feed, broilers and eggs have increased roughly
in the same proportion from July, 1971 (appraisal of the first livestock
project) to November, 1974. Poultry producers have complained that retail
price ceilings, unchanged since January 1974, are now too low in relation
to feed retail price ceilings which were increased in July, 1974 by about
14%. Currently, legal retail ceilings in the Greater Manila area are 40
centavos a piece for eggs and f 7.0 a kilo liveweight and P 8.20 a kilo
dressweight for broilers. Most supermarkets and restaurants are not



ANNEX 6
Page 10
affected by price regulations since they do not apply to chilled or
frozen birds. Control is easier on graded eggs and fresh broilers than
on beef and pork. Nevertheless, ceiling prices are generally not enforced
and producers can obtain a fair margin over feed costs. In April-May 1975,
retail prices of chicken broilers in the Greater Manila area were about
t 8.50 a kilo liveweight on public markets and 11.50 dressweight in super-
markets. In January 1975, eggs were sold at 45 centavos a piece. A pro-
posal to increase current ceilings to 50 centavos per egg and V 9 per kilo
liveweight (t 11.25 per kilo dressweight) for broilers is being studied by
the Price Control Council, together with a proposal for increases in feed
prices of 7-8%.
Dairy Products
24.       Only 10% of milk consumed is locally produced fresh milk.  There
are seven principal commercial dairy farms and these mostly cater for
moderate and high income urban people. Most milk is consumed as canned
filled, reconstituted, condensed or evaporated milk locally produced from
imported ingredients (dry skim milk and butterfat) or local vegetable fats
(edible coconut oil). The consumption of dairy products is estimated at
between 17 and 20 kilos per capita per year, which is only about 25% of
NEDA's recommended nutritional intakes. In 1974 the Philippines imported
dairy products for a total CIF value of US$88 million, mainly non-fat dry
milk, butterfat and cheese curd for local processing into canned milk and
cheese. Import prices have increased substantially over the last four
years.
25.       Producer's, wholesaler's and retailer's prices of canned milk
(evaporated and condensed) are controlled, and so are retailer's prices of
its imported equivalent. The cost of producing milk locally is still higher
than reconstituting or filling it from imported dry skim milk- but because
of the recent higher import prices the difference has become smaller. The
controlled importer's price (including a 10% ad-valoren duty) is t 64.4 per
case of 48 cans of 14 oz. each for imported evaporated milk. Equivalent
controlled producers' prices are r 75.8 (filled) and t 84 (reconstituted).
Retail ceiling on 14 oz. tins is V 1.40 for imported evaporated milk and
V 1.60 for imported condensed milk, as compared with t 1.88 to t 1.92 for
local filled condensed milk, and t 1.63 to V 1.68 for local filled evapo-
rated milk. Fresh milk, however, fetches higher prices of more than t 4
a quart (May, 1975) in supermarkets. Based on these price comparisons,
there is opportunity for developing domestic milk production for import
substitution.
Transport of Animals vs Carcasses
26.       Studies have been carried out in the Philippines in the past few
years by the National Food and Agricultural Council (NFAC) recommending the
construction in outlying islands of slaughterhouses equipped with refrigera-
tion and processing facilities for the purpose of shipping carcasses to
Manila instead of live animals. However, before any action is taken on



ANNEX 6
Page 11
these proposals, a detailed study of comparative costs based on controlled
trials of both systems is necessary. These trials should involve careful
weighing of animals and carcasses and close supervision of shipments, under
the relevant range of circumstances, in order to generate empirical data
to substitute for the largely theoretical data used in the present studies.
Some of the important aspects of such studies are briefly discussed below.
27.       Transportation from General Santos (the farthest point from
Manila) to Manila of live cattle and hogs currently costs f 170 to 200
and P 48 to 56 per head respectively (Tables 4 and 5). Although voyages
may take up to a week, only carcass shrinkage, not liveweight shrinkage,
represents a loss and with adequate feed and water en route, this should
be well under 1% carcass weight to liveweight for both types of animals.
The cost of sending carcasses, including handling charges (? 10 per cattle
carcass and g 5 per hog carcass), amounts to about I 110 for cattle 1/ and
y 45 2/ for hogs per carcass on the few boats with refrigerated compartments
that operate in the Philippines. Red offals, intestines and tripes fetch
high prices on the Manila market. With regional slaughter of Manila's meat,
local markets would be unable to absorb most of these secondary products.
Returns from processing them locally into by-products are low and costs
are high, so that it would be necessary to send them chilled or frozen to
Manila, together with cattle hides. Transportation of offals would amount
to about Y 30 for cattle and i 9 for hogs, which would bring total costs to
f 140 for cattle and t 54 for hogs. This approximates the costs of shipping
liveweight with good feeding and care to avoid carcass shrinkages. More-
over, the processing costs of chilling or freezing and wrapping are not
included in NFAC studies. The cost of cold storage at the plant or in
Manila and the considerable investment cost for chill rooms, cold stores,
containers, and refrigeration facilities must also be included. In addi-
tion, there exists in Manila a large idle slaughter and meat processing
capacity at the DELTA plant, which could be restored at a cost much less
than the likely investment required in new regional slaughterhouses and
specialized transport which would be required to ship carcasses to Manila
in volume.
1/   150 kg carcass weight.
2/ 60 kg carcass weight.



Tab   I
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consumption of Animal Proteins 1972 (per capita)
% of
kg. per capita      % of meat    proteins of
per year        consumption  animal origin
Meat
Beef                                    3.1              (20)
Pork                                    8.3              (53)
Poultry                                 2.8              (18)
Other                                   1.6               (9)
Total                                15.8             (100)            37
Milk and Milk Products
Fresh Milk                              1.0
Evaporated Milk                         r.l
Powdered and other Dry Milk             1.6
Dry Skimmed Milk                        13.1
Other                                   1 .
Total                               17.5                               7
Fish and other Sea Food                39.2                              50
EgR8                                    3,4                               5
Total                                                                100
Source: NEDA - The Philippine Food Balance Sheet 1972
EAP Project.q Department.
November 13, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Animals Slaughte-ed in the Provinces and in the
Greater Manila Area, 1974 (Number of heads)
Total             Total
Greater Marila        ?revinces        Registered.-       Estimated /
Carabao                 2,Y,O9            i)19,722          212,231            220,000
Clattle                V6,h1p1            21Q,372           265,393            400,000
Hogs                  602,335           1,976,360         2,578,695          7,h80,000
Horses                  ?,239              11,990             14,229            15,000
Goats                   3,167              76,791             79,958           420,000
Chickens            7,h91,232          1O,858,346        18,349,578        110,000,000
1/  Total animals inspected by officlal Meat Inspection Services.
2/  Unofficial estimates from animal populat.ion figures and (for chickens) from NEDA
ood balance sheets.
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



PHILIPPINES                               ANNEX 6
Table 3
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOEfNT PROJECT
Present and Proposed Retail Price Ceilings
and actual Prices - Meat and Eegs - (Greater Manila Area)
(P per kg)
Present Prices   Price in
Present         Proposed         Manila Farmers'  Supermarkets
Ceilings        Ceilings         Market-May, 1975 (March, 1975)
Broilers - V per kg
Liveweight                7.00             9.00                 8.5
Dressed                  8.20             11.25                 9.0          10.8 to 12.50
Eggs (t per piece)           0.40 (large)    0.50                    1/          43 (medium)
Pork - (V per kg)
Head                     5.20              6.40             5.5 to 6.5          n.a.
Pork chop                 9.20            10.50                 n.a.         14 to 15.93
Spare ribs               6.10              7.30                 7.0          10.8 to 13.8
Leg                      6.30              7.50                 7.50            n.a.
Belly Liempo             9.40             10.60                 n.a.         11.8 to 13.2
Impella                  5.70              7.40                 n.a.            n.a.
Bone shoulder            6.20              6.70                 n.a.            n.a.
Greater Manila
Public Markets
April, 1975
Carabeef
Shank                    6.10                -                  9.03
Lean meat                 8.50               -                 10.42
Neck without bones        7.40               -                  9.44
Neck bones with meat    5.50                 -                  8.54
Spare ribs               5.50                -                  8.40
Beef - Ranch type - Batangas
Shank                 8.50 to 9.00           -                  n.a.         13.80 to 15.80
Lean meat            11.UO to 11.50          -                  n.a.       stew = 11.90 to 17.76
Neck bones with meat 7.00 to 7.50            -                  n.a.
Neck with bones      10.00 to 10.50          -                  n.a.
Spare ribs            7.50 to 10.00          -                  n.a.       Short ribs 12 to 14
1/  BAI reports 0.49 pesos in January, 1975p 047 in February and 0.42 in March.
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CrstofShoipttpfingtCttl
Pesos per head of -
. I,arge Cattlel/
Masbate to Manila              General Santos to Manila
Trucking to Pier       15                     15
Documents and Fees      h                     10
Handling               10                     10
Freight                34                    115
Feed                    2                      5
Trucking to Abattoir _7                        7
Total                72                    168
2   Yearlings
Macbate to Manila              General Santos to Manila
Trucking to Pier       12                     12
Handling                7                       7
Freight                34                    115
Unloading               7                       7
Feed                    2
Total                62                    146
Cost of Trucking Cattle                     Pesos per head
Manila-Urdaneta                            15 (per weaner) to
25 (per large animal)
Batangas-Manila                            15 to 25
This figure'does not include any estimate of shrinkage losses.  A maximur 1",
carcassweight to liveweight shrinkage would incrense total costs by about Y3' per
head to 202. On a 300 kilo liveweight animal dressing out at 51%, carcass shrinkage
wTould be 3 kilos.  At wholesale prices of P11.30 a kilo for good quality mo~at carcas,cs
in Greater Manila, shrinkage losses would amount to P3h4
EPP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



ANMIEX 6
Table -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transport Cost of Pi,gs /
kresos per ehad)
General Santos           Visayas (Cebu/Iloilo)
to Manila                  to Manila
1l  Trucking piggery to pier                2.50                        2.50
2.  Wharfage fee                            0.20                        0.20
2/
3. Freight                                 22.65                       11.04-/
4, Salary of convoy                         2.00                        0.80
5.  Convoy boat fare                        0.42                        0.15
6.  Feed en route                          14i00i                       5.00
7. Handling - (Ki) l                        o.64                        0164
8.  Miscellaneous (Documei%tsi s ozits
mortality)                              2.00                        2.00
9. Trucking to Abbatoir (Manila pier
to FTI pens)                           3.50                         3.50
TOTAL                                  47.91                       25.83
i/ Does not include shrinkage losses.  Maximum carcass shrinkage   1 percent of
'carcass weight to liveweight from General Santos, i.e. on a 85 kilos liveweight
hog,0.85 kilos.  At 9.6 pesos a kilo,fcr carcasses in Manila, maximum r-irinkage
losses amount to 8.1 pesos from General Santos and about half of this (4.1)
from the Visayas, bringing total cost& to 56 pesos and 29.9 pesos respectively.
1 Average of freight rates from Cebu and nloilo.
3/  2 kilos per day during 7 days at 1 peso a kilo.
IL/ 2 kilos per day during 2.5 days at 1 peso a kilo.
UAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



PHILIPPINES                                     ANNEX 7
Table 1
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEV.OP1ENT PROJ0T
Pig Breeding/Fattening Model - Inoreasing Herd frm  20 to 40 Sows
Herd Projection
10thout                -------------lSnd of Year------------
Project                1                2                3-20
Herd Composition
SDws and Replacements                                      20                  40               40                40
Boars                                                       1                    2                2                 2
Pigs - under 2 months                                      >1                   93               93                93
Pigs - above 2 months                                     100                  150              200               200
Total Pigs                                             172                 285              335               335
Total Births                                                  288                 405              576               576
Purchases
Gilts                                                        -                  20                -
Boars                                                                            2                1                 1
Total Purchases                                          _                   XT                                 5
Mortality
Breeding Females                                            1                    1                1                 1
Boars
Pigs - under 2 months                                      32                   43               64                64
Pigs - above 2 months                                      10                   10               19                21
Total Mortality                                          47
Sales
Culled 9DWS                                                 7                    7               12                13
Culled Boars                                                -                    1                1                 1
i*anlings                                                   51                  65              102               102
Finisned Pigs                                             187                  187              328               375
Total Sales                                            245                  260              443               491
Technical Coefficients
Conception Rate %                                           80                  80               80                80
Number Born/Farrowing                                        9                   9                9                 9
Number of Farrowings/Fertile Sow/Year                        2                   2                2
Average Number of Farrowings/Female in Breeding Herd         1.6                 1.6              1.6               1.b
Sow Culling Rate/Year %                                     33                  33               33                33
Boar Culling Rate/Year %                                    50                  50               50                50
Production sold as lanlings %                               20                  20               20                20
Mor Laity %
Breeding Females %                                       2.5                  2.5              2.5               2.5
Boars %                                                  1                    1                1                 1
Pigs - Under 2 months %                                 11                    1               11.               11
Pigs - Above 2 months %                                  5                    5                5                 5
EAP Projects Department
Fehbripry 23, 1976



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPHENT PR0JECT
Pig Breeding/Fattening Model - Increasing Herd from 20 to 40 Sows!'
Investment Projection
Year 1                           Year 2                        Total
Unit      No. of                            No of
Unit        Cost       Units         Cost                Units        Cost          Units         Cost
Investments                         -             7,                    Tr)                              (T)                         Tf
Fixed
Farrowing Pens                 99m2        1,596        6           9,576                -            -              6           9,576
Dry Sow Pens                   99.m2        1,532       7          10,726                -            -              7          10,726
Boar Pens                      9.9m2       1,542        1           1,542                -            -              1           1,542
Weaning, Growing and               2
Fattening Pens               9.9m         1,495        8         11,960                 -           -              8          11,960
Feed Store and Quarters       19.8m2       4,000        2           8,000                -            -              2           8,000
Water System                    -          5,071        1           5,071                -            -              1           5,071
7-month Gilts                   -             900       8           7,200                -            -              8           7,200
6-Honth Gilts                   -             BoO       6           4,8O0                 -           -              6           4,800
5-month Gilts                   -             700       6           4,200                -            -              6           4,200
Boar                            -          1,500        1           1,500                -            -              1           1,500
Miscellaneous                   -                       -           2,014                -            -              -           2,014
Sub-Total                                                    5j,589
Working Capital
Feed                           kg            1.11     22,127       24,560               18,849       20,922                     45,482
Medicines Vaccines,
Supplements2/                   -             -         -           1,467                -            1,250                      2,717
Klectr city and Wate,3/         -           26          -             400                -              120                        520
LaborW                          -          117          -           1,800                _              540                      2,340
Sub-Total                                                    28,227                            22,832                    51,059
Total Investment                                           94.816                            22,832                   117,648
Technical Coefficients
Feed consumption/boar or sow/year          =  1095 kg
Feed consumption/weaner 0-2 months          =    10.5 kg
Feed consumption/grower 2-6 months          =   188.5 kg
Feed consumption/finisher 6-8 moaths        =   141 kg
Liveweight of finisher at 8 months         =    90 kg
Labor productivity                         =  1 man to 20 sow herd
' Loans are made in this project to finance fixed investment and incrementA  working capital up to the sale of the first batch _
of fatteners financed under the project.
2/ Medicines, Vaccines and Supplements is estimated as 67% of feed costs.
3/ Electricity and Water is estimated as M26 per sow per year.
& Labor is estimated at Y117 per sow per year.



PHILIPPINES
SEC0ND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pig Breeding/Fattening Model - Increasing Herd from 20 to 40 Sows
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Without Project                          Year I                    Year 2                     Year 3-70
Unit             No. of                               No. of                      No. of                      No. of
Sales                                            Unit   Price              Units       Amount                   Units   Amount             Units    Amount              Units    Amount
(t)              -   -      7f0(1'0O)                         (P'000)                      9 I''0)                    (P'OOO)
Culled Sow                                     no       O                 7           5.6                       7       5.6                12        9.6               13       10 4
Culled Boars                                   no      700                -            -                        1        .7                1          .7                1         .7
Weanling8    1/                                no       180              51           9.2                      65      11.7               102       18.4              102       18.4
Finished Pigs-!                                no       630             187         1$                        187     117.8              328       206.6              375      236.3
Total Sales                                                                    S                                 135.8                       235.3                        265.8
Operating EzensAes
Feed                                           kg         1.11        92,830        103.0                  92,830     103.0          162,547      180.4           185,660      206.0
Medicines, Vaccines% S pplements2-             -          -              -            6.1                     -         6.1             -           10.7                        12.3
Electricity and Water;                         -         -               -             .5                     -          .5             -            .8              -           1.U
Labor/                                                    -              -            2.3                               2.3                         3.8              -           4.7
Purchase  of Boar                              no    1,500               -             -                        1       1.5                1        1.5                 1        1.5
Repairs and Miscellaneous-/                               -              -            2.0                     -         2.0             -           3.4              -           4.0
Total operating Expenses                                                        1s=                              lI                          200;6                        229.5
1/ Finished Pigs are sold at 90 kg liveveight at V7 per kg.
2/ Medicines, Vaccines, Supplements are calculated as 6% of feed cost.
3/ Electricity and Water are estimated as 126 per sow per year.
4/  Labor is estimated as ?117 per sow per year.
5/ Repairs and Miscellaneous is estimated as 2 percent of feed costs.



PHILIPPINES
CD                                             SEOUNI LIVSbW1JCK DEVELOPMaNT PROJzflT
(D O
e1 c
CD
r 0                             Pig Breeding/Fattening Model - Increasing Herd from 20 to 40 sows
\O 0                                                   Financial Projections
\0C
--J ,                                                         (,1?  ,000) '
:3                                          Wlthout                   ---   Year   ---
Project         1        2         3-7        8-20
Cash Inflow
1.  Annual Sales                      132.60        135.8()   235.30    265.80    265.80
2.  Producers' Contribution                          9.48       2.28
3.  Long-term Loan                                   85.34     20.55
Total Expected Cash Inflow            ITEM         230.62    258.13    265.m
Cash Outflow
1.  Invesbments
a.  Producers' Contribution                      9.48       2.18
b.  Long-term Loan                              85.34      19.66
2.  Operating Costs                   113.90       115.40    200.60    229.50    229.50
3.  Debt Service /1
Long-term Loan                                         5.12      29.37
Total Expected Cash Outflow           113.90       210.22    227.56    258.87    229.,0
Surplus Cash at Year End               18.70        20.110    30.57       6.93     36.30
Cumulative Incremental Herd Value/2      -          41.79     02.2)h    62.24      62.24 
/1  Total term Of 7 years including 2 years of grace.  12% interest v.a.
72  Valutes as follows: Sowi, P800; Boa rs, P790; Animals under 2 mont.Ls, P120, Animals over 2 months,  IO05.



ANNEX 7
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Pig Breeding/Fattening Model - Increasing Herd from 20 to 40 Sows
Financial Analysis for Total Incremental Investment (General)
(1 '000)
Without                       Ye--   ----        ---
---S--^   5  9       1-0          20
Investment Costs                 _          94.82      22.83          -           _
Operating Expenses              113.90     115.40    200.60         229.50
Total Costs                     113.90     210.22    223.43         229.50        _
Income                          132.60     135.80    235.30         275.80      62.2h4/
Net Income                       18.70      (71.42)    11.87         46.30      62.24
Incremental Net Income             -       (93.12)    (6.83)         27.60      62.24
Financial Rate of Return (General) = 23%
1/  Cumulative incremental herd value at year 20.                  1
Sows and Replacements        20 0 0800                    16,000
Boars                         1 @~ 700                       700
Pigs under 2 months          42 x (2/3 of }180)            5,040
Pigs above 2 months         100 x (180 + 1/2 (630 -180o  40.500
62.240
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



0 90
9,4                                                        PHILIPPINES
0 @                                         SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
HC+
"O                   Broiler Produ,tion Model - Increasing Broiler Capacity from 4.000 to 8,000 Birds
,toP
Flock Proj ection
C+
Without                     --Year------------
Project                       1 _                      2-10
FLOCK COMPOSITION
Broilers (0-8 Weks)                                4,ooo                      8,000                       8,000
FURCHASES
Day-old Chicks paid for                           20,000                     36,000                      40,000
Day-old  Chicks delivered 1/ ....                 20,400                     36,720                     40,800
MORTALITY
Broilers (0-8 Weeks)                               1,020                      1,836                      2,040
SALES
Broilers.                                         19,380                     34,884                     38,760
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Age at Parchase - Days                              1                          1                           1
Age at Sale - Weeks                                 8                          8                           8
Batches per Year - Number                           5                         5/4  g/                     5
Mortality - %                                       5                          5                           5
Feed Consunption           -
Starter (0-5 Weeks) kg/bird ...                  1.45                        .4
Finisher (6-8 Weeks) kg/bird ..                  1.80                       1.80                       1.80              C
Liveweight at 8 weeks - kg .1.30                                              1.30                       1.30
Feed Conversion Ratio .2.5:1                                                  2.5:1                      2.5:1
2 percent of number purchased is supplied free of cost.
/ Only 4 batches were produced in the new buildings in Year 1.



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES                         Table 2
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Broiler Production Model - Increasing Broiler Capacity from 4,000 to 8,000 Birds
Investment Projection
----------Year 1----------
Unit      No. of     Total
Unit       Cost       Units      Cost
Investments-
Fixed
Broiler House (double deck)                175.68m2    30,718         1        30,718
Feed Store and Quarters                     29.28m2      5,919        1         5,919
Brooding Hovers                          1,000 birds       819        4         3,277
Drinking Fountains                           1 gal.        512      100           512
Feed Barrow                                  -             819        1           819
Water System                                 _          10,140        1        10,140
Miscellaneous                                                -        -         2,014
Sub-total                                                                   53,399
'WDrking Capital (1 Batch)
Day-old Chicks                                  No.          2.10   4,000       8,400
Feed
Starter                                     kg/bird       1.51   5,916       8,947
Finisher                                    kg/bird       1.30   7,344       9,575
Medicines, vaccines and supplements2/         -              -         -        1,111
ElectFicity and water3/                      _                         -          355
Laborw                                                       -         -          288
Miscellaneous                                                -         -        1,00l
Sub-total                                                                   29,683
TOTAL Investment                                                                  83,082
1/  Loans are made in this project to finance fixed investments and working capital to
cover the purchase of Chicks; Feed; Medicines, Vaccines, Supplements; Electricity
and 1Wter, and Labor associated with the production of the first batch of broilers.
2/ h4edicines, Vaccines, Supplements are estimated at 6% of feed cost.
3/ Electricity and Water are estimated at 2% of feed cost.
/ Labor is calculated at the rate of ? 36/1,000 birds/month.
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES                             Table 3
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEOPfENT PROJECT
Broiler Production Mbdel - Increasing Broiler Capacity from 4,000 to 8,000 Birds
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Without Project  ---Year 1----  --Year 2-10--
Unit    Unit    No. of    Amount  Units  Amount  Units  Amount
Price   Units
(P )              (P-OOO)         (P-OOO)         (P-000)
SALES                                             -
Broilers -.............       (kg)    6.50    25,194    163.76  45,349 294.77  50,388  327.52
Feed Bags2/   ......... .  ea         2.00     1,193       2.39   2,148   4.30   2,387    4.77
Droppings X  ............... (kg)    0.10    16,575        1.66  29,835   2.98  33,150    3.32
Total Sales                                       167.81          302.05           335.61
Operating Expenses
Day-old chicks ............  No.     2.10    20,000      42.00  32,000  67.20   40,000  84.00
Feed
Starter ............... (kg)    1.51    29,580        44.67  47,328  71.47   59,160  89.33
Finisher   .........   (kg)    1.30    36,720         47.74  58,752  76.38   73,4i0  95.47
Medicines, Vaccines,  w      -        -                   5.5      -      8.87      -    11.09
Supplements
Electriqc ty and Water5 ...  -        -         -         1.78     -      2.84      -      3.55
Labor   o .......oooooo.. -           - -                 1.73     -      2.88      -      3.46
Repairs and Miscellaneousl/-          -         -         3.86      -     8.96      -      8.96
Total Operating Expenses                                  147.32          238.60           295.86
1/  Broilers are sold at 8 weeks weighing on average 1.3 kgs.
2/  Each bag of feed weighs 50 kgs.  The recovery rate of bags is estimated at
90 per cent. The number of bags sold [Kgms. of feed x 0.90 ! 50.
# Droppings calculated at 25 per cent of feed consumed.
4/  Medicines, vaccines and supplements are claculated as 6% of feed cost.
5/ Electricity and water are calculated as 1% of total feed cost.
W Labor is calculated at the rate of P 36/1000 birds/month.
7/ Repairs and Miscellaneous is estimated on the basis of 10% of Machinery and
Equipment, 10% of Poultry Buildings and 5% of Bodega and Quarters.
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVOPHENT PROJECT
Broiler Production Model - Increasing Broiler Capacity from 4,000 to 8,000 Birds
Financial Projections
(P f000)
Llthout      ----- Year  ------------------
Project      1       2       3-7        8       9-10
CASH INFLOW:
1.  kAnmal Sales      167.81      302.05  335.61  335.61   335.61   335.61
2.  Producer's
Contribution         -          8.31    -        -         -        -
3.  Long-tern Loan       -         74.77     -        -        _        _
Total Expected
Cash Inflow         M. 335              6       335.61   TJr. 33 5.
CASH OUTFLOW:
1. Investtments
a. Producer's
Contribution     _          8.31
b. Long-term
Loan             -         74.77      -       -        -        -
2.  Operating Costs   147.32      238.60   295.86  ?95.86  295.86   295.86
3.  Debt Service/i       -           -      18.19   18.19      -        -
Total Expected 
Cash Outflow      147.32      339.87   314.05  314.05  295.86   295.86
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR
END              20.49       45.26    21.56   21.56   39.75    39.75
/1 Loan term of 7 years, including 1 year grace, 12% interest p.a.
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Broiler Production Model - Increasing Broiler Capacity from 4,O000 to 8,000 Birds
Financial Analysis (General)
Wlthout     -----------Year---------------
Project             1                2-10
Investment Cos ts                          -               83.06               -
Operating Costs                         147.32            238.60            295.86
Total Costs                             47.32             321.68            295.86
Income                                  167.81            302.05            335.61
Net Income                               20.49            (19.63)             39.75
Incremental Net Income                     -              (40.12)            19.26
Financial Rate of Return (General) = 46%
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



'1 t_j.
I-ocl0                                            PHILIPPINES
COND LIVESTOCK DVELOPMENT PROJ!pT
Egg Production Model - Increasing Hen Capacity from 2,000 to 6,000 Birds
(D                                             Flock Projection
B D 2               B D 1           Year                Year 2              Year 3             Year 4-10
[Ouse       
#1   7--  6t7          600       533      47   _0-220    l1*                                                   1g0W
#2   533      47 -                6o     53.       2250     2000      181                         -
600      533      46                                                       0-0_  2~
#3                                       604                           I 
#3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~2                                20Q_ qo  18tO  ,                d50 1622
667     600       53       4_227                                                   18t00      1670      1-o
IXotes:
---- * Gro g Period
Lging Period
pbU,  Of -G                                                                                                 5 3D
* flew batches of chicks introduced.



PHILIPPINDS
CD7                                       SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMRNT PROJECT
o o                    f    Production Modal    n Ihereasing Hen Capacity frem 2 0Q  to Eirds
Flock Rrojection
- -at end of year----------
.n0 NWithout Project                                                                  1              2             3__10
9   Flock Composition
Point-of-Lay Birds                                     667                2000           2000            2000
Layers                                                1133                1133           3400            3400
Total                                         1835
Average knnual Laying Flock                           1700                1700            3533           5100
Purchases
Day-old Chicks                                      1,500               3,000           4,500            4,500
Mortality
Chicks and Growers                                    166                 333            500              500
Layers                                                400                 400            80C            1
Total Mortality                                     566                 733          19300            1,700
Sales
Culled Birds                                          934                 934            934           2,800
Eggs                                              372,000             372,000        773,727       1,116,900
Technical Coefficients
Age at Purchase - days                                  1                   1              1                1
Laying Period - months                                 18                  18             18               18
Age at Sale - years                                     2                   2              2                2
Average Percentage of .Hens Laying/day                 60                  60             60               60
Feed Consumption
Chick:  0-6 weeks - kg/head                          2                   2             2                2
Grower:  6-26 weeks - kg/head                       10                  10             10              10
Layer:  26-104 weeks kg/year,bird                   40                  40             40               40
Mortality
Chicks and rGrowers - ; of c.ics bouE'+               11                  11              11               11
Layers - % cf averagQ annual laying f'oc;.             23.5                23.5            22.6             23.5



z M
PHILIPPINES
(D O
0 -                                      SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
i\) 0
F~~~ ~ ~ ~~ _C_
\,OCD                          Egg Production Model - Increasing Hen Capacity from 2,000 to 6,000 Birds
Investment ProJections
23                                                                      Year 1             Year 2           2TYL AL
Unit   No. of             No. of             No. of   Total
Unit         Cost.  Units    Cost       Units    Cost     Units    Cost
Investments /1
Fixed                                             2
Brooder/Grower                          77.50 m    13,473        1  13,473         _                   1  13,473
Laying House                            86.16  2   19,419        2  38,838         1     19,49         3  58,257
Bodega                                  115.2 m2    2,328        2   4,656         1      2,328        3   6,984
Workers Quarters                        20.00 m      6,06h       1   6,o64         -       -           1   6,064
Water System                                           -         1  10,143         -       -           1  10,143
Miscellaneous                                          -         -   2,014         -       -           -   2.014
Sub-Total                                                        75.188              21.747           96.935
Working Capital
Chick Purchase                          D/o Chicks   2.70    1,500     4,050    3,000    8,100    4,500    12,150
Feed                                    kg           1.33   16,992    22,599   33,984   45,199   50,976    67,798
Medicines, Vaccines, Supplements /2        -          -        -          454      -        907     -        1,361
Electricity and Water 3                              _                  2 3       -        435     -          653
Labor LL                                   -                   -         39       -         718     -107
Miscellaneous                              -          -        -                   -       -        -1009
Sub-Total                                                         28.771            55 359              84,0h8
Total Investment                                                           10.,87?7            ?? lO5            180,983
1/ Loans are made in this project to finance fixed investments and incremental working capital to cover the purchase
of chicks, feed, medicines, vaccines and supplements, electricity and water and labor up to the point where the
first batch of growers begin to lay.                                                                                  b M
2/ Medicines, vaccines and supplements are calculated at 2% of feed cost. ca
3/  Electricity and water are calculated at 1% of feed cost.                               so
4/ Labor is calculated at the rate of one man per 4000 hen capacity at the rate of P180 per month or P5h per 100
layers capacity per year. Capacity is increased by 1,333 for 6 months in year 1.



0
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Egg Production Model - Increasing Hen Capacity from 2,000 to 6,000 Birds
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
e+                                                              Without Project             Year 1                  Year 2                  Years 3 -10
Price/     No. of                 No. of                  No. of                    No. of
Unit     Unit      Units       Amount     Units        Amount     Units        Amount        Units       Amount
(TF0-00)                ( t'i0-00)              ( 0'000)                 ' (fe00-0)
Sales
Eggs                                  No.      0.38     372,000      141.36     372,000      141.36     773,727      294.02     1,116,900      424.42
Culled Hens                           No.      7.00         934        6.54         934        6.54         934        6.54         2,800       19.60
Droppingsl/                           Kg.      0.10      21,250        2.12      25,500        2.55      48,070        4.81        63,750        6.38
Feed Bags-/                           No.      2.00       1,530        3.06       1,836        3.67       3,461        6.92         4,590        9.18
Total Sales                                                       153.08                  154.12                  312.29                    459.58
Operating Expenses
Day-old Chicks                        No.      2.70       1,500        4.05       1,500        4.05       1,500        4.05         4,500       12.15
Feed
Starter/Grover                      Kg.      1.33      16,992       22.60      16.992       22.60      16,992       22.60        51,000       67.83
Layer                               Kg.      1.38      68,000       93.60      68,000       93.60     141,320      195.02       204,000      281.52
Medicines, Vaccines, Supplements3       -       -           -          2.33        -           2.33        -           4.35           -          6.98
Electricity and Water4/                 -       -          -           1.12        -           1.12        -           2.08           -          3.35
Labot5/                                 -       -           -          1.08        -           1.08        -           2.16           -          3.24
Repairs and Miscellaneous6/             -       -          -           3.53        -           3.53        -          10.30          -          12.45
Total Operating Expenses                                           128.31                  128.31                  240.56                    387.52
1/  Droppings calculated at 25% of feed consumed.
2/  Each bag of feed weighs 50 kg.  The recovery rate of bags is estimated at 90%.
The number of bags sold = No. of kg of feed - 50 x 0.90.
3/ Medicines, Vaccines, and Supplements are calculated as 2% of feed cost.                                                                                 m x
4/  Electricity and Water are calculated as 1% of feed cost.                                                                                               |-
5/  Labor is calculated at the rate of 1 man per 4,000 layers capacity at t 180 per month, or P 54 per 100 layers capacity per year.
6/  Repairs and Miscellaneous are estimated on the basis of 10% Machinery and Equipment, 10% of Poultry Buildings and 57 of
Bodega and Quarters.



PHILIPPINES
CD00
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0
Egg Production Mbdel - Increasing Hen Capacity from 2,000 to 6,o00 Birds
Financial Projections
'J1.                                                  (g '00X)
Without --YEARS-----------------------------
CASH INFLOW                    Project            1              2              3-8                 9-10
1.  Annual Sales              153.o8         154.12         312.29           459.58              459.58
2.  Producer's Contribution      -            10*39           7.71              -                   _
3.  Long-term Loan                            93At9          69.40
Total Extected Cash Inflow   T53h0W          258.00         1Th9.4__9 1.3W
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Investments
a. Producer's Contribution    -             10.39          7.71
b. Long-term Loan                           93.49         69.W                _
2.  Operating Costs           12B.31         128.31        240.56           387.52              387.52
3. Debt Service 1/
Long-term Loan                -              -            5.60            39.62
Total Expected Cash Outflow 128.31           232 ,19        323,27          427.11
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR END         2!4.77         26,81          66413           32-44                72.06
WJMULATIVE INCREMENTAL
FLOCK VALUE 2/                                   6.66          22.53            22.53               22.53
1/  Loan term of 8 years, including 2 years grace.  12% interest p0a.                                             I0
2/  Values as follows:  Layers, i 7; Point-of-Lay Birds, j 5.



0
'1 X4.                                         PHILIPPINES
0
I-' --                             SECO;ND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PRtOJECT
 d              Egg Production Model - Increasing Hen Capacit,yfrom_2,000rto-6,000_Birds
Financial Analyjsis for Total IncrEmental Investment (General)
w    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~,('000-
Without                                 YARS                                  ____
Project               T-------
Investment Costs                    _            103.88          77.11
Operating Costs                   128.31         128.31         2h0.56        387.52
Total Costs                       128.31         232.19         317.67        387.52
Income                            153.08         154-12        312.29         459.58                22.5
Net Income                         24X.7         (78.07)         (5.38)        72.06                22.5
Incremental Net Income               -          (102.84)       (30.15)         47.29                22.5
Financial Rate of Return (General)  = 25%
1/  Cunulative Incremental Flock Value at year 20: 2.267 layers at t 7 per bird and 1,333 Point-of-lay Birds
at #5 per bird.                                                                                                CDI4
Ao'b



ANNEX 10
PHILIPPINES                                 T;bef 1
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hill Bee' Cattle Farm Model - 400 ha-
Herd Projections
Without ---------------nid of Year------------------
Project   1        2       3       4       5      6    7-20
Herd Composition
Bulls                               3       3       5      5       5       6       6      6
Breeding Cows & Replacements    80         80    104    111    123    122    121    121
Calves Weaned                      14      14     20      21      21      22     22      22
Heifers (1-2 yrs.)                 13      13      14     19      20      20      21     21
Total Animals                     110    110    143    156    109    170    170    170
Total A.U.                         96      96    123    135    148    148    148    148
Purchases
Bulls                               1       1       3       1      1       2       2       1
Bred Heifers (1-2 yrs.)             T              20      5       6       -       -       -
Mortality
Bulls                               -       -       -       -      -       -       1       -
Breeding Cows & Replacements        3       3       2       3      3       4       4       4
Heifers (1-2 yrs.)                  1       1       -       1      1               1       1
Total Mortality                     4       4       2       4      4       5       6       5
Sales
Cull Bulls                          1       1       1       1      1       1       1       1
Cull Cows                          10      10       7       9     10      17      17      17
Weaned (< 1 yr.)                   22      22      24      41     51      58      57      57
Total Sales                        33      32      32      51     62      76      75      75
Technical
Calves Weaned  (%)                 45      45      55     60      65      65      65      65
Mortality - Adults (%)              4       4       3       3       3       3      3       3
Cow Cull Rate    (%)               12      12       9       9      9      14      14      14
Bull Replacement Rate (%)          20      20      20      20     20      20      20      20
Unit Carrying Capacity:
- Improved pasture (A.U./ha)        0       0      .7    1.0    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3
- Unimproved pasture (A.U./ha) .27    .27          .3     .3      .3      .3      .3      .3
Total Carrying Capacity (A.U.)  97         97    124    136    148    148    148    148
Area Improved Pasture (ha)          0      40      40      40      40     40      40      40
/1 Effective area = 320 hectares.
AP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



O m
CD                                                              PHILIPPINES
(D O
fi (D                               ~~~~~~~~~SECOND LIV13STOCK DEVEL0PMTNT PPaOJECT
CDO
co
\v CD                                             1fHill Beef Cattle Farm Model - 1400 ha
4                                                       Investment Projections
CD
Year I         Year 2          Year3           Year 4          TOTAL
Unit
Investment                  Cost     No.   Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.
Items                 Unit  2L_   Units              Units  gL      Units  (        Units          Units  j!Cost
Fixed
Alabang X/Legume Pasture    ha      760     40    30,400    -       -        -      -        -      -       40     30,400
Fencing-                     Im   3,710       4.5  16,695    3    11,130    -        _       _               7.5   27,825
Water                        no     800       2     1,600    2       1,600    -                              4      3,200
Housing                      no   5,0oo       -      -        1     5,000    -                               1      5,000
Corral                       no   5,000       1     5,000    -       -        -      -       _               1      5,000
Hand Sprayer                 no     400       2       800    -       -       -       -       -      -        2        800
Bull Cart                    no   1,500       1     1,500    -       -        -      -       -       -       1      1,500
Heifers                      no   1,500       -      -       20    30,000    5      7,500    6      9,000   31     46,500
Bulls                        no   3,000       -      -        3     9,000    -       -       -       -       3      9,000
Carabao                      no   2,000       2     4,000    -       -       -       -       -      -        2      4,000
Miscellaneous 5%              -    -          -     3,000    -      2,840    -        375    -        450    -      6,665
Sub-Total                                     62,995         59,570           7,875           9,450          139,890
Incremental Wbrkinz Capital
Anima'r Health /1            AU      20       -      -       27       540   39        780   52     1,040  ine       2,360
Salary                    man/yr  2,000       1     2,000    1      2,000    1      2,000    1     2,000    4       8,000
Miscellpneous 10%             -    -          -       200    -        250    -        280    -        300           1,030
Sub-Total                                      2,200           2,790          3,CD6 3,31o                     11,390   
Total Investment                                   65,195          62,360          10,935         12,790          151,280
I/ Includes dips, drench, vaccine and phosphorus supplementY 70/AU/yr.



z >i                                                        PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROJECT
0
.o 0
HJ                                            Hll Beef Cattle Farm Model - 400 ha
0                                                             ~Sales and Operating Expenses
Without
Category            Project          IL           2          3                    5          6         7   20
e       1'                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T -T       f    f  4
Cattle Sales:-
Cull Bulls           1,500          1,500       1,500      1,500       1,500     1,500     1,500        1,500
Cull Cows          12,000          12,000       8,400     10,800      12,000    20,400    20,400       20,400
Wegners             14,520         14,520      18,720     31,980      39,780    45,240    444,6o60
Total S.les        28,020          28,020      28,620     _4280      53,280    67,140    66,36o        66,36o
Operating Expenses:
Labour _             5,600          5,600       5,600      5,600       5,600     7,600     7,600        7,600
Animal HealthY       1,920          1,920       1,920      1,920       1,920     2,960     2,960        2,960
Bulls           5/ 3,000            3,000         -        3,000       3,000     6,000     6,000        3,000
Repairs & Maint.5_  1,400           1,1400      2,700      3,600       3,600     3,600     3,600        3,600
?tLSCe11aneOUS6/     1,192          1,192       1,022       1,412      1,1412    2,016     2,016        1,716
Total Operating    13,112          13,112      11,242     15,532     15,532    22,176    222176        18,876
Expenses
cul bulls Y 1500
1/  Price animal/head:  cull cows ?1200                 660
weaners before development       0
weaners after development   ' 780
2/  Head Cowboy  p 3,600/year
Other Cowboys I 2,000/year
3/ 120/A.U.
5/  5% initial cost of equipment and structures
6/  10% of operating expenses.



PHILIPPINES
* t                                       SEOOND LIVEMSCK DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
~ o                                        Hill Beef Cattle Farm Model - 400 ha
2Financial ProJection
Without - ----------------------------Year-----------------------------------------
Project     1      2      3       4 2           6       7      8      9    10-11 12-20
Cash Inflow
1. rnmual Sales                     28.02   28.02  28.62  44.28  53.28  67.14  66.36  66.36  66.36  66.36  66.36  66.36
2. Producer's Contribution 10%        -      6.52   6.24   1.10   1.28    -        -      -      -       -      -      -
3. This T,oan /                       -     58.68  56.12   9.84  11.51    -        -      -      -       -      -      -
4. Other Loans                        _-                     -      -       -      -      -                 -          -
Total Expected Cash Inflow    28.02   93.22  90.98  55.22  66.07  67.14  66.36  66.36  66.36  66.36  66.36  66.36
Cash Outflow:
5. Investments
- Producer's Contribution 10%    -        6.52   6.24  l.lO   1.28    -         -      -      -      -       -      -
-  This Loan                       -     58.68  56.12   9.84  11.51    -        -      -      -      -       -      -
-  Other Loans                     -               -      -      -      -              -      -      -      -       -
6. Operating Costs                  13.11   13.11  11.24  15.53  15.53  22.18  22.18  18.88  18.88  18.88  18.88  18.88
7. Debt Service:
Interest                        -       -     3.52  U1-4.1  1.4-37 33.12  33.12  33.12  33.12  33.12  33.12    -
Principal
Total Expected Cash Outflow   13.11   78.31  77.12  36.88  42.69  55.30  55.30  52.00  52.00  52.00  52.00  18.88
steS    ====  a=====  s====  =====  ==-==  =====  =-==- =e===  --====    ==
Surplus Cash at Bid of Year         14.91   16.91  13.86  18.34  23.38  11.84  11.06  14.36  14.36 14.36  14.36  47.48
Cumulative Incremental Herd Value/2  -        -    37.48  51.66  67.06  68.A11  67.94  67.94  67.94 67.94  67.94  67.94
/1  11 year lonn including 4 years grace. Interest at 12%p.a.
/2  Cattle valued as follows: Bulls Y1,500; Cows yl,200; Heifers 1-2 yrs V1,000; NPeaners ?780.



o~I-
CD
CD @PHILIPPINES
X  g                                        SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CD
Hill. Beef Cattle Farm 11odel. - 400 ht4
z                              Financial Analysis for Total Incremental Investment (General)
(ID' 000)
-------------------------------Years -------------------------------
Without
Project       1        2         3         4        5         6       7-20        20      TOTAL
Investment Costs              -       65.20    62.36    10.94    12.79         -         -         -          -
Operating Costs             13.11      13.11    11.24    15.53    15.53   22.18         22.18    18.88        -
Total Costs                 13.11      78.31    73.60    26.47    28.32   22.18        22.18    18.88         -
Income                      28.02      28.02    28.62    ).4.28    53.28   67.14       66.36    66.36    67.94
Net Income                  14.91     (50.29)  (44.98)   17.81    24.96   44.96        44.18    47.48    67.94
Incremantal Net Income        -       (65.20)  (59.89)    2.90    10.05   30.05        29.27    32-57    67.94
D.C.F.  15%                   -       (56.72)  (45.28)    1.91       5.75   14.93      12.64    80.61       4.14'   +17.98
D.C.F.  20%                   -       (54-31)  (41.56)    1.68       4.84   12.08       9.81    50.29       1.76    -15.41
Financial Rate of Return - 18%
1/  Incremental Herd Value
3 Bulls @  P1,500                                  =   4,500
41 Breeding Gows and Replacements @ Y1,200          =  49,200
8 Weaned Calves @ 1780                             =   6,240
8 Heifers (1-2 yrs.) @ yl , 000                        8,000
67,940



PHILIPPINES
e c-                              SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening Model .5Lha.
'.0 a
-41                                            Herd Projection
Cs.
Without                   --- d of Yea r---------
co,                                                            Project           1     2    3     4      5-20
Herd Composition
Feeder Cattle 1_2 yrs                                         -            -     7    8     8        8
Animual Units
Purchases
Fbeder Cattle 1-2 yrs                                        _             _     7    8     8       8
Mortality
Feeder Cattle 1-2 yrs                                         -            -
Sales
Fat Cattle 2-3 yrs                                            -            -     -    7     8        8
Technical Coefficients
Purchase liveweight (kg)                                      -            -   150  150   150      150
Selling liveweight (kg)                                       -            -   300  300   300      300
Liveveight gain (pm/head/day)                                 -            -   400  400   400      400
Average Fattening Period (Months)                             -            - 12.5 12.5  12.5    12.5
Carrying Capacity - A.U./ha                                   -            -   1.4  1.6   1.6     1.6
Total Carrying Capacity - A.U's                               -            -     7    8      8
H H



PHILIPPINES
1,t &                                                              SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I% o
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening Model - 5 ha
-J 0                                                                              Investment Proiection
ITEMS                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~Year 1              Year 2                      Year 3                       Total
ITEMS                                            Unit          Number        Cost          Number      Cost         Number         Cost          Number       Cost
Unit         Cost         Units                        Units                    Units                       Units
Fixed
Pasture Establishment -             ha             760           5           3800           -           -                           -              5          3800
Fencing                             1km          3710            -             -            -           -            1.1           4080          1.1          4080
Drainage 2/                         m.             1.25        1000          1250          500         625          500             625          2000         2500
Copra Drier                         no.           970            -             -            -          970           -              -              1           970
Miscellaneous (10%)                                                           505                      160                          470            -          1135
5555                     1755                        5175                      12485
WorkinR Capital
Feeder Steers (1-2)3/               no.          1000            -             -            7         7000           1           1000              8          8000
Animal Health                       a.u.           6             -             -            7           42           8              48            15            90
Fertilizer - Coconuts 4/            sack           95          22.5          2138         22.5        2138           -               -            45          4276
Miscellaneous (5%)                    -            -            -             106            -         459           -              52             -           617
Sub-total                                                                    2244                     9639                       11o0                        12983
Total Investment                                                             7799                    11394                       6275                        25468
to
1/ Includes fertilizer 2 sacks/ha of 14-14-14.
2/ Assumed that 2 ha on each farm would require drainage.
3/ 160 kg at r 6.25/kg.
4/ 1 sack: 50 kg 1.5 kg/palm 0-0-60 plus 0.75 kg/palm 46-0-0 for 100 palms/ha.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening tiodel - 5 ha
Sales and Operating Expenses
Without         ----------------------------------------------YEARS-----------------------------------------------
SEPtoAect      1           2           3            4 t                       6            7            8            9             10          11 -20
SALES                                                          p                                                -                            1            1             1 
Copra V                           3,560        3,560       4,250       4,250        5,200        5,670        6,140        6,615        7,090        7,560        7,560            7,560
Cattle                              -            _         -          12.600       14.400       14y400       14.400       14.400       14,400       14,400       14.400           14.400
Total Sales                         3.560        3.560       4.250      16850       19.600       20.070       20,540       21 015        21.490       21.960       21.960          21.960
OPERATING EXPENSES
LaborN   Copra making 20%           712          712         8'50        850        1,040        1,134        1,228        1,323        1,418        1,512        1,512            1,512
Animal Health4/                      -            -         -             -            48           48            48           48           48           48           48               48
Repairs and Maintenance              -            -         250          250          250          250          250          250          250          250          250              250
Fertilizerl/ - Coconuts              -            -          -         2,138        2,138        2,138        2,138        2,138        2,138        2,138        2,138            2,138
Feeder Cattle Purchase               -            -          -         7,000        8,000        8,000        8,000        8,000        8,000        8,000        8,000            8,000
Miscellaneous (2%)                   14           14         22          205          229          231          233          235           237          239          239              23S
Total Operating Expenses              726          726      1           10,443       11L705       11.801       11.897       1,94         12 091       1,           12.187           121187
1/  (a) Copra price t 0.95/kilo.  Copra yield without project - 749 kg/ha rising to 895 kg/ha in Year 2; 1,094 in Year 4; 1,193 in Year 5; 1,293 in Year 6;
1393 in Year 8; and 1592 in Year 9 end thereafter.
(b) Labor  :or cattle - part-time estimated at 10 weeks at t 40 per week.
2/  Steers (2 - 3 years) sold at t 1800/head in years 3 - 20.  Salvage value in year 20 is assessed at 1 1500 per head.
3/  Share-farming arrangement - 20% gross sales.  Requirements for cattle minimal.
4/  t 6.00/A.U.
51  Fertilizerfor coconuts 45 kg/ha.  None recomnended for pasture.



PHILIPP11IES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening Model - 5 ha
(O
(                                                                     Financial Projectiors
'0
Without           ----------------------------------------------------------YEARS ---_----------- -----------------
CASH INFLOW                     Project            1          2             3          4             5          6           7          8          9           10          11-20
1.  Annual Sales                  3.56           3.56     4.25          16.85       19.60        20.07       20.54       21.02       21.L19     21.96       21.96         21.96
2.  Producer's Contribution (10%) -               -        -             -           -             -           -           -           -          -          -
3.  Thts Loan 11                   -             7.80    11.39           6.28        -             -           -           -           _          _          _
4.  Other Loans                    -              -        -             -           -             -           -           _           _
Total Expected Cash Inflow   3.56           11.36    15.64          23.13       19.60        20.07       20.54       21.02      21.49       21.96      21.96         21.96
CASH OUTFLOW
5. Investments:
- Producers contribution (10%)-                                      -           -             -           -           _          _          _           _
- This Loan                    -             7.80    11.39          6.28         -             -           -           _          _          _           _
- Other Loan                   -              -        -             -           -             -           -          _
6.  Operating Costs               0.73           0.73     1.12         10.44        11.71        11.80       11.90       11.99      12.09      12.19       12.19         12.19
7. Debt Service:
- Interest                     -              -        .47          1.62         2.68        6.19         6.19       6.19        6.19       6.19        6.19           -
-Principal I                                          -                                      
Total Expected Cash Outflow  0.73            8.53    12.98         17.50        14.39       17.99        18.09      18.18       18.28      18.38      18.38         12.19
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR END          2.83           2.83     2.66          5.63         5.21         2.08        2.45       2.84        3.21       3.59        3.58          9.77
CUMULAT]VE INCREMENTAL HERD
VALUE 2,                                          -      10.50          12.60       12.00        12.00       12.00      12.00       12.00      12.00       12.0o        12.00
1/  Total term of loan 10 years; grace period 4 years.  12% interest, p.a.
2/ Value of steers, p 1,500.



ANNEX 11
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SEODND LIVESTOCK bEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening Model - 5 ha
Financial Analysis - Total Incremental Investment - (General)
Net         Incremental
Ndt
Costs      Income     Income      Income        D.C.F.      D.C.F.
Year 0      .73       3.56       2.83          -            22%         21%
1     8.53       3.56      (4.97)        (7.80)      (6.40)      (6.44)
2    12.51       4.25      (6.26)       (11.09)      (7.45)      (7.57)
3    16.72      16.85         .13        (2.70)      (1.49)      (1.52)
4   11.71       19.60       7.89          5.06        2.28        2.36
5    11.80      20.07       8,27          5.44        2.01        2.10
6    11.90      20.54       8.64          5.81        1.76        1.85
7    11.99      21.02       9.03          6.20        1.54        1.63
8    12.09      21 .49      9.40          6.57        1.34        1.43
9-19    12.19      21.96       9.77          6.94        5.71        6.31
20    12.19      33.96      21.77         18.94         .36          .42
+15.oo      +16.10
-15.34       15-53
-  .34      +  .57
Financial Rate of Return = 22%
EAP Projects Department
November 31, 1975



ANNEX ll
Table 6
PHILIPFINES
SECQiD LIVESTOCK DEVZLORPE2T PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/Cattle Breeding/Fattening Model - 20 ha
Herd ProJections
Without        --------------------At Did of Year----------------------------------------
Project          1           2          3          4           5           6          7        8-20
HERD COMPC0ITIC1
Bulls                                        1           1          1           1           1          1          1
Breeding Cows and
replacements                                9          28         25          25         26          27         27       27
Calves weaned                                -           5         17         11          12          12         12       12
Heifers I   2years                           -           -          3           5           5          4          1
Steers  1-2 years                           _           _           8           8           6          8          8         R
Total Animals                              10          34         54         50          50          52         52        52
Total Animal Units                        10           29         37          39         38          40         40        I40
PURCHASES
Bulls                                        1           -          -           -           1          -          -         -
Heifers  1 - 2 years                         9          19          -           -           -
Steers   1 - 2 years                        _8 _
10         19          8           -           1           -          -         -
MORTALITY
Bulls                                         -          -
Breeding cows and
replacements                                -           -                      -           1           1         1         1
Heifers  1 - 2 years
Steers     - 2 years
Total Mortality                             -           -          l           -           1           1          1        1
SALES
Cull Bulls                                   -           -          -           -           1           -         -         -
Cull Cows                                    -           -          2           3           3           3          3        3
Weaners                                      -           -          -           5           6           7          8         8
Steers  1 - 2 years                          -           -          2           -
Steers  2 - 3 years                          -           -          -           8           8           6          8         8
Heifers 1 - 2 years                         _           _          _            4
Total Sales                                                        4          20          18          16         19       19
TECKICGL Co0FICaENTS
Oalves weaned  %                             -          60         60          65          70          75         75        75
Mortality - Adult %                           -          2          2           2           2           2          2         2
Cull Rate - Breeders  %                      -           5          7          10          12          12         12        12
Bull      %                     -          20         20          20          20          20         20        20
Carrying Capacity (A.U.)        13          10          30         40          40          40          40         40        40
Area Improved   (ha)             -          10          20         20          20          20          20         20        20
EAP Projecte Departokent
November 13, 1975



PlIlLIPPINES
'1 C-'
.1i @SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
M                                                                  Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening Model - 20 ha
un                                                                                         Investment Projections
Ct
Unit               YER1YEAR 2                                              YEAR 3                          TOTAL  
Investment Item                          Unit         Coat       NO. UnCN                            i Cost  No. Units                       Cost No. Units  Cost            St
FIXED
Grass/legume pasture   1/                        ha           760          10           7,600            10          7,600            _                             20          15,200
Fencing                                          km         3,710           2.5         9,275             -            -                                             2.5         9,275
Water System                                     No.        2,000           1            2,000            -            -                                             1           2,000
Improved Copra Drier                            No.          400            1             400            -             -                                            1             400
Corral                                           No.        2,000           1           2,000             _            _                                             1           2,000
Bulls                                            No.        3,000           1           3,000             -            -              _                              1           3,000
Heifers  1 - 2                                   No.        1,500           9          13,500            19         28,500            _            _                28          42,000
Miscellaneous (5%)                                                                       1.B90                       1,805            -             -                            3,695
Sub-Total                                                                           39.665                      37,905                                                      77.570
INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL
Feeder Steers (I - 2 years)                      No.        1,000           -              -              -            -              8          8,000               8           8,000
Animal Health                                    A.U.          20          10              200           29            580           37            740              76           1,520
Cowboy's Salary  2/                           Man weeks        40           9             360            18           720            25           1,000            52           2,080
Fertilizer - Pastures                            Sack 3/      110           -              -             10          1,100           20          2,200             30            3,300
- Coconuts                           Sack          95          90           8,550           90          8,550            90          8,550            270          25,650
Miscellaneous (5%)                                                                         450                         540                          997                         1,987
Sub-Total                                                                           9L560                      11,490                       21,487                         42:537
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                                                         49 225                      49,225                        21,487                       120.10?
1/  Includes establishment fertilizer.                                                                                                                                                   0N
2/  Part-time                                                                                                                                                                            o
3/  Sack = 50 kg; Fertilizer for pasture is broadcast  fertilizer for coconut is dug in around bzise of palm.



D
CD
*                                                                          PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/Cattle Breeding/Fattening Model - 20 ha
Sales and Operatine Expenses
Without    -------------------------       ---- --- -----------------------
Project    1        2      i        4       5       6        7      8-9       10    11-14   1       16-20
SALES
Copra /l                                  19,000  19,000  22,800  26,680  31,220  34,960  38,475  38,475  38,475  38,475  38,475  38,475  38,475
Cattle L2:
Cull Bull                                -        -       -        -       -      1,500    -        -        -      1,500    -       1,500    -
Cull Cows                                -       -        -      2,400   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600
Weaners                                  -        -       -        -      3,900   4,680   5,460   6,240   6,240   6,240   6,240   6,240   6,240
Steers (1 - 2 yrs)                       -        -       -      2,000    -        -        -       --                       -        -       -
Steers (2 - 3 yrs)                                               1_ .400  14.400  10.800  14.400  14.400  14.400  14.400  14,400  14.400
Total Sales                            19.000  19.000  22.800  31.080  53 120  59.140  58.335  62,715  62,715  64.215  62,715  64.215  62,715
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Labor 3 - Copra Making                     3,800   3,800   4,560   5,336   6,644   6,992   7,695   7,695   7,695   7,695   7,695   7,695   7,695
- Cowboy                           -       -        -       -      l,j60   1,710   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080   2,080
Animal Health 4                             -        -       -        -        "80     760      800     800      800     800     800      800     800
Bull Replacement 5                          -        -       -        -       -      3,000    -        -        -      3,000    -       3,000    -
Repairs and Maintenance  L6                  420      420   1,080   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100
Fertilizer  L7 - Pastures                   -        -       -        -      2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200
- Coconuts                  -        -       -        -      8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550   8,550
Miscellaneous (5%)                           211      211     283      322   1.012   1.216   1.121   1.121   1.121   1.271   1.121   1.271   1.121
Total Operatine Expenses                  4.3    4 1   SL3   6,758  21.246  2$.528    .6  23.546  23.546  26.696    .6  26.696  21.46
L1  Copra sold at 9 0.95/kg; copra yield of 1,000kg/ha without project rising to 1,200 inYear 2; 1,404 in Year 3; 1,643 in Year 4; 1,840 in Year 5
2,025 in Year 6 and thereafter.
Cull bulls 9 1,500, cull cows 9 1,200; weaners 9 780; steers (2 - 3 years) 9 1,800.
(a) Share 20% of gross copra sales.  (b)  Part-time labor: 34 weeks in Year 4; 42 in Year 5; and 52 from Year 6 onwards at 9 40 per week.
L4  Animal Health estimated at 9 20 for A.U.
&   Bull is replaced every 5 years.
Z6  Estimated at 5% of initial cost of structures and equipment.
/7  Pastures - 20 sacks at 9110/sack broadcast.  Coconuts - 90 sacks at /95/sack dug in aroLund base of palms.  One sack = 50 kg.
ba,



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S
z0 U                                      Integrated Coconut/Cattle Breeding/Fattening Model - 20 ha
Financial Projections
S
Without        ---------------------------------------------YEARS-------------------------------------------- ----
Proiect        1      2                            6                    2.      10      11-14      15      16-20
CASH INFLOW.
1.  Annual Sales       19.00       19.00  22.80  31.08  53.12  59.14  58.34  62.72  62.72  62.72  64.22       62.72    64.22    62.72
2. Producers Con-
tribution (10%)      -          4.93   4.94   2.15    -       -      -       -      -      -      -          -        -        -
3. This loan L1          -         44.29  44.46  19.34    -       -       -      -      -      -      -
4.  Other loans                -                    -      -      --      -      -      -      -      -
Total Expected
Cash Inflow      19.00       68.22  72.20  52.s7  53.12  59,14  58-34 .72 6   272  62.72  64.22         62.72    64.22    62.72
CASH OUTFLOW:
5. Investments
-Producers Con-
tribution (10%)      -         4193   4.94   2.15    -       _
-This loan            -        44.29  44.46  19.34    -       -
-Other loans          -          -       -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -         -        -         -
6. Operating Costs      4.43        4.43   5.94   6.76  21.25  25.53  23.55  23.55  23.55  23.55  26.70       23.55    26.70    23.55
7. Debt Service
-Interest            -           -      2.66   7.98  11.81  26.29  26.29  26.29  26.29  26.29  26.29        -        -         -
-Principal I
Total Expected
Cash Outflow       4.43       53.65  58.00  36.23  33.06  51.82  49.84  49.84  49.84  49084  52.99       23.55    26.70    23.55
SURPLUS CASH END
OF YEAR             14.57       14.57  14.20  16.34  20.06   7.32   8.50  12.88  12.88  12.88  11.23       39.17    37.52    39.17         r 
CUMULATIVE INCREMENTAL                                                                                                                        @ 
HERD VALUE /2         -          12.30  39.00  55.76  53.08  53.06  55.26  55.26  55.26  55.26  55.26      55.26    55.26    55.26
L1  Total term of loan 10 years; grace period 4 years; 12% interest p.a.
2  Values as follows: Bulls, ' 1,500; Cows, t 1,200; Steers and Heifers (1-2 years), r 1,000; Weaners, p 780.



PHILIPPINES
0 w                                          SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
P g                                  Integrated Coconut/Cattle Breeding/Fattening Model - 20 ha
\o 9Financial Analysis for Total Incremental Investment (General)
Inv.     Oper.        Tbtal           Net        Incr.Nst     D.C.F.      D.C.F.
Costs    Coats        Costs  Income   Income      Income        20%
'0thout Project                     -        4.43        4.43   19.00    14.57         -           _           _
Year 1                            49.22      4.43       53.65   19.00   (34.65)   (49.22)        (4)..00)    (42.82)
2                            49.40     5.94        55.34   22.80   (32.54)   (477.U)        (32.69)    (35.62)
3                            21.49      6.76       28.25   31.08      2.83    (11.74)       ( 6.80)      (7.72)
4                              -       21.25       21.25   53.12    31.87      17.30          8.34       9.90
5                              -      25.53        25.53   59.14    33.61      19.04          7.65       9.46
6                              -      23.55        23.55   58.34    34.79      20.22          6.77       8.74
7                              -       23.55       23.55   62.72    39.17      24.60          6.86       9.25
8-9                            -      23.55        23.55   62.72    39.17      24.60         10.48      15.06
10                             -       26.70       26.70   64.22/1  37.52      22.95          3.72       5.67
11-14                          -      23.55        23.55   62.72-   39.17      24.60         10.31      17.34
15                             -       26.70       26.70   64.22/1  37.52      22.95          1.49       2.82
16-19                          -       23.55       23.55   62.727   39.17      24.60          4.13       8.63
20                             -      23.55        23.55  117.98/2  94.43      79.86          2.07       4.87
+61.82     +91.74
-80.49     -86.16
I.R.R. * 16%                                  :I71g7       +5.58
7fIfncludes sale of cull bull in years 10 and 15.
7! Includes salvage value at the close of the project
27 Breeding Cows    @ /1,200       =  /32,400
1 Bull              @ /1,500      =  / 1,500
12 loaned Calves    @ /  780       =  / 9,360
4 Heifers 1-2 yrs  @  l1,000      =       4,000
8 Steers 1-2 yrs   @ /1,000           / 8 000
oF-J



0  te
CD
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMNT PROJECT
Integrated Coconut/bairy/Beef Model - 10 ha
Herd Proiection
- ---___----_------------At end of Year-----------------------
Herd Opmposition                                    1       2                  14       5         6        7     8-20
Breeding Cows and Replacements                     10       20       17       17       17        17       17      17
Calves Weaned                                       -       3         6       6         6         6       6        6
Heifers 1-2 yrs.                                    -        -        3        3        3         4       4        4
Tbtal Animals                                 10      23       26       26        26       27       27       27
rce     Snt     _-e        n=       nr:      =e        =       =
Thtal A.U.                                    10      20        20      20        20       21       21       21
Purchases
Heifers 1-2 yrs.                                   10      11         -        -        -         -       -        -
Mortality
Breeding Cows and Replacemen z                      -        -        1        1        1         1       1        1
Sales
Cattle : Gull Cows                                -       1         2       2         2        2        3        3
lbaners                                 -       3         6       5         6         7       7        7
Heifers 2-3 yrs.                        _        -        -        3        3         2       2        2
Total Cattle                                   -       4        8       10       11        11       12      12
Milk (kg.)                                        -     4,800    10,800  12,000  12,000  13,000   13,000  13,000
Technical Coefficients
Calves Wbaned %                                     -       60      60       65        70       75       75       75
Mortality - Adult%                                  -        3        3       3         3        3        3        3
Cull Rate -  iro-rders ',                          10       10       lo      10 cU- 1                    20       20
Carrying Cap'city (A.U .                           10       21       21      21        21       21       21       21
Area Improved    (ha.)/l                            5       10       10      10        10       10       10       10     J 2
Av. Yield/Lactating Cow/Tear (Kg.)                  -      800      900     1,000    1,000    1,000   1,000   1,000  @ K
&  Improved pasture carrying capacity 1 AU/ha end yr.1; 2.1 AU/ha from Year 2.



o 
c X                                                   PRILIPPINIES
C. ,SECON-D LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
CD
ro o
F- t:J                                Integrated C                    Mdel   10 ha
\0 tD
\,t c-
Unit   ---Year 1----    ---Year 2----    ----Total----
Cost   No.of    Cost    No.of    Cost    No.of    Cost
Investment Items                          Unit  _QL    Units   (JO)    Units    (0)         Units    (0)
Fixed
Grass/Legume Pasture /1                 ha.      760     5     3,800      5      3,800     10     7,600
Fencing                                 km.  3,710       2     7,420       -      -         2     7,420
Water System                            no.   2,000      1     2,000       -      -         1     2,000
Improved Copra Drier                    no.     400      1       400      -       -         1       400
Corral and Milking Shed                 no.  4,000       1     4,000      -       -         1     4,000
Heifers 1-2 yrs                         no.   2,000    10    20,000      11    22,000      21    42,000
Dairy Utensils and Miscellaneous (5%)   -       -        -     1,881       -     1,290      -     3,171
Sub-Total                                                  39,501           27,090            66,591
Incremental Working Capital
Artificial Inseminption                 no.       20    10       200     21       420      31       620
Animnl Health                           A.U.      20    10       200     20       400      30       600
Labor                                 man/yrs 2,(X)0     0.5   1.000      1     2,000       1.5  3,000
Fertilizer - Pastures                 sackL2    110      -      -         5       550       5       550
- Coconuts                  sack      95    45     4,275      45     4,275     90     8,550
knimal Feed a                           kg.        I     -      -     3,600     3,600  3,600      3,600
Miscellaneous (5%)                       -         -     -       284       -      560       -        44
Sub-Total                                                   5,959           11,805           17,764
Total Investment                                          45,460            38,895           84,355
/1  Includes establishment fertilizer
a Sack = 50 kg. Fertilizer for pasture is broadcast.  Fertilizer for coconut is dug in around
the base of the palm.                                                                                             INO
/3  500 ke. mixed feed/lactatinp cow qnrn 100 kp'/wpaner ret?ined or sold.



t: tJJ
PHILIPPINES
CD O
.-  C-.
CD
N)                                                SECOOMD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-
Integrated CoconutADairy/Beef Model - 10 he
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
WAthout   --------------------------------------Years-----------------------------_           -_
Project   1           2           3          4           5           6           7          8-20
Sales
Copra /1                               9,500   9,500      11,400      13.340      15,610      17,480     19,238      19,238      19,238
Cattle /2 - Cull Cows                   -        -         1,200       2,400       2,400       2,400       2,400      3,600       3,600
- I*aners                     -       -          2,340       4,680      3,900       4,680       5,460       5,460      5,460
- Heifers (1-2 yrs)           -                      _                  3,000       3,000       2,000       2,000       2,000
Milk  3                                 -        -          8,640     19,440      21,600      21,600      23,400     23,400      23,400
Total Sales                               9      ,500  9500 2,              46,510      49,160                  53,696      53,9
OSperating Expenses
Labor - Copra Making /4                1,900   1,900        2,280      2,668       3,122       3,496       3,848      3,848       3,848
- Cowboys                         -       -           -          4.000       4,000     4a0ooo       4,00        4,000  h      ooo
Animal Health                                    -           -           400         400         400         420        420         420
Animal Feed /5                          -        -           -          7,200      7,050       7,150       7,675      7,675       7,675
Fertilizer - Pastures                   -        -           -         1,100       1,100       1,100      1,100       1,100       1,100
- Coconuts                  -        -           -         4,275       4,275       4,275       4,275      4,275       4,275
Artificial Insemination                 -        -           -            400        380         380         380        380         380
Rspairs and Maintenance /6               210      210        880         880         880         880        880         880         880
Miscellaneous /7                         105      105         158      1,046       1,060       1,084       1,129      1,129       1,129
Total Operating Expenses         2,215   2,215       3,318      21,969      22,267     22,765      23,707      23,707      23,707
/1 Copra-is sold at 70.95/kg. Yield without the project and in Year-ITITOOO kg/ha; 1,200 kg/ha in Year 2; 1,404 in Year 3;
1643 in Year 4; 1,840 in Year 5; and 2,025 from Year 6 onwards.                                                                               x 2
/2  Cull cows sold at /1,200; loaners, /780, and Heifers (1-2 years) at 1t0ooo.
73  Milk is sold at /1.80/kg.
74  Share farming arrangement - 20% of gross sales.
75  500 kg. mixed feed/lactating cow and 100 kg/weaner retained or sold.  Price of feed is /1.OO/kg.
76  5% of initial cost of structures and equipment, fencing, water system. corral and milking shed.
77 5% of Operating Expenses.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEOPMENT PRWOECT
0 >                                  Integrated Coconut/DairyiBeef Cattle Model - 10 ha
Financial Projections
Without         -------- ------- ----- -Year ---------------- ---- ____ ---- - -
Project   1         2                  4        5         6        7-10         11-20
Cash Inflow
1.  Annual Sales                        9.50   9.50    23.58    39.86    46.51    49.16    52.50         53.70        53.70
2.  Producer's Contribution              -     4.55      3.89      -         -        -         -           -           _
3.  Long-term Loan                       -    40.91    35.01       -         -        -         -           -           _
Total Expected Cash Inflow          9.50   54.96   62.48    39.86    46.51    49.16    52.50         53.70        53.70
Cash Outflow
1.  Investments:
a.  producer's contribution          -      4.55    3.89       -         -        _         _          _
b.  long-term loan                   -     40.91   35.01       -         -        -         -          -
2.  Operating Costs                     2.22    2.22    3.32    21.97    22.27    22.76    23.71         23.71        23-71
3.  Debt Servicq!. (long-term loan)    -        -       2.45     7.01      9.11    18.L7    18.lt7      18.1I7         -
Total Expected Cash OutfLow             2.22   l7.68   44.67    28.98    31.38    41.23    42Q.8         42018        23.71
Surplus Cash at Year End                7.28    7v28   17.81    10.88    15.]3       7.93    10.32       11.52        29.99
Cumulative Incremental Herd Value-       -     12.00   26034    28@0C?    28.08    28.08    29.08        290O3        29.08
1/ Total term of loan 10 years incluiiing h years grace, 12,, interest p.a.
2/  Values as follows:  Co-Ts, Y' 1,200; Weaned Calves. t 780; Heifers (1-2 years), / 1,000.
cr 
Fi 



o >j
6 >                                         EE~~~~~~~~~~ILIPPINES
0 O
SECONiD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
cto
Integrated Coconut/Dairy/Beef Model - 10 ha
Ct                            Financial Analysis for Total Incremental Investment (General)
(D                                         (~~~~~~~~~~~  '~~~~000)
C+~~~~~~ihu ------------------------------Years ----------------------------------------
WithoutYas
Project   1        2         3        4         5        6         7       8-20    2U      Total
Investment                            4$05S6    38.90      -         -        -        -         -         -       -
Operating Costs                 2.22   2.22      3.32    21.97    22,27    22.76    23.71    23.71       23.71    -
Total Costs                     2.22  47068    42.22    21.97    22.27    22.76    23-71    23.71        23.71    -
Income                          9650   9650    23.58    39.86    46.51    49.16    52.50    53.70        53.70    -
Net Income                      7.28 (38.18)  (18.64)   17.89    2492h    26.40    28.79    29.99        29.99    -
Incremental Net Income           -   (45h46)  (25.92)   10.61    15696    19.12    21.51    22071        22.71   29.081/
DOC.FO at 20%                    -   (37.87)  (17-99)    6.14       8.17     7.69     7.21      6.3L     28.73      .76   +9.18
DOC.F. at 25%                    -   (36-37)  (16.59)   5$43        6.90     6.27     5.65      h.77     18.01      .35   -5.58
Financial Rate of Return = 23%
1/ Salvage Value of Herd
(D>4
Po



CD 0                                                         PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
no D
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
o                                                     fHerd Projection
Without   -------------------------At End of Year-----------------------------
Pro,ject     1      2     3      4     5      6      7      8     9      10      11-20
Herd Composition
Breeding Cows and Replacements            -         -      1     1      1      1     1      2      2      3      3        3
Calves Waned                              -         -      -     1      -      1     -      1      1     2       2        2
Heifers 1-2 years                         -         1      -     -      -      -     1      -      1      -      1        1
Steers 1-2 years                         -          3     3      3      3     3      3      3     3      3       2        2
Total Animals                                4      4     5      4      5     5      6      7     8       8        8
Total Animal Units                 -                     ,2 h                              A 6    6       6        6
Purchases
Heifers 1-2 years                         -         1-                                            - 
Steers 1-2 years                         -          3     3      3      2     3      3     3      3      2       1        1
Bred Heifer                              -          -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -       1
Mortality
Cows and Replacements                    -          -      -     -      -         -     -      -      -      -       -
Sales
Cull Cows                                -          -     -      -      -     -      -     -      -      -       1        -
We aners                                 -          -      -     -      -     -      -      -     -      -
Animals 2-3 years                        -          -     3      3      3     3      3     3      3   -3         3        3
Total Sales                                          3     3      3      3              ==    = 33        e
Technical Coefficients through Project Life
Calves weaned (%)                        -        60
YArtality - cows (%)                     -          3
Cull Rate - cows (%)                     -         10
Steer liveweight gain (gms/day)          -       300
Steer purchase liveweight (kg)           -        160  @ ,6.25/kg.
Steer sale liveweight (kg)               -        274  @t6.Ookg.  =        1,644



ANNEX 13
Table 2
PHIIIPPINES
SEOOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Hodel
Investment Cost
Unit           Year 1
Investment                    Cost      No.         Cost
Item             Unit        (1)      Units
Fixed
Ipil Ipil Seed  (HYV)       kg         10          1         10
Corral                     no         500         1         500
Maiden Heifers 1-2 yrs      no      1,200          1      1,200
Miscellaneous (5%)                                           85
Sub-Total                                            1.795
Working Capital
Bull Service Fee            no         20          1         20
Feeder Steers 1-2 yrs       no      1,000         3       3.,000
Animal Health               AU         15         4          60
Concentrate Feeding /1      kg          0.45   960          432
Sub-Total                                             3, 512
Total Investment:                                        5,307
Ll 2 kg rice bran/AU/day for 4 months.
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



Z t'
PHILIPPINES
X Xo                                      SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
\.0 CD
dSales and 2eratin  Expenses Pro,jections
Without  ----Year--
Project     1       2      3       4      5       6       7      8        9     10   11-20
Sales
Cattle                              -        -     .4 932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  h,932  4,932  6,132   4,932 /6
Total Sales                                          94,932          4,932          4,932
Opeerat Steer 2  1-2 yrs            -        -     3,000  3,000  2,000  3,000  3,000  3,000  3,000  2,000  1,000   1,000
Bred Heifer                                  -                     -           -                 -       -     1,500    -
Animal Health /3                    -        -        60      60     60      75     75      75     90      90     90       90
Bull Service Fee 4                  -        -        20      20     20      20     20      40     40      60     60       60
Concentrate feeding E               -        -       432    432    432    540    540    540    648    648    648          648
Miscellaneous                       -        -        5o      50     50      50     50      50     50      50     50       50
Total Operating Expenses                      3,562  3,562  2,562  3,685  3,685  3,705  3,828  2 848  3,348   1,848
Sales_of_Cattle_based_on average weight of 274 kg liveweight at  A/kg i.e. 01,64h/ head.
& Purchase of Feeder Steers based on 01,O0O per animal.
/3 Animal Health based on /15/AU.
7 Bull Service Fee is 020 per female.
Concentrate feeding is based on 2 kg rice bran/AU/day f or 4 months at IO.L5/kg*
At year 20 the salvage value of the herd is an additional p 8,000.
CDtI>



D .                                                      PHILIPPINES
tD0
SEOOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
\,O CD
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
Financirl ProJections
C+                                          (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P)
Without  ----------------------------Year---------------------------------------------
Project     1       2      3      4       5      6       7      8       9      10   11-20
Cash Inflow
1. Annul Sales                       -       -     4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  6,132  4,932
2. Producer's Contribution            -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -
3. This Loan/i                        -      5,307
4. Other l,oans                       -       -       -
Total Expected Cash Inflow      -           5  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  4,932  h,932  4,932  6,132  4,932
_   = a   = = ==  =  == = =    = =     = =   ==  =   _=  == ==  =t= =   ==   ==== ===== ==_==
Cash Outflow:
5. Investments
- Producer's contribution          -       -      -       -      -      _       _      -       -      _       _      _
- This Loan                        -      5,307           _      _      _       _
- Other Loans                      -       -      _       _      _       _      _      -       _      _       _      _
6. Operating Costs                    -       -      3,562  3,562  2,562  3,685  3,685  3,705  3,828  2,848  3,348  1,848
7. Debt Service
- Interest W                       -       -       318  1,163  1,i63  1.163  1,163  1.163  1,163  1,163
- PrincipalJ
Total Expected Caah  Outflow            5,307  3,880  4,725  3,725  4.848  h.8L8  4.868  4.991  4,011  3.348  1,8L8
a...nO    " .Su     ...  ....    a...   .....  ....    .....  ....    .. -
Surplus Cash at End of Year           --            1,052    207  1,207      814    814    614  (59)    921  2,7814  3,0814
Cumulative Incremental Herd Value /2         4,000  3,200  4,900  4,200  4,900  5,200  6,100  7,100  8,000  8,000  8,ooo
7a 9 year loan, 2 years grace, interest 12'5. p.a.
/2  Values as follows: Cows, P 1,200; Heifers, P 1,200; Steers, P 1,000; Calves, P 60.



Lz M
PHILIPPINES
ro C)
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
He,
Backyard Cattle Breeding and Fattening Model
CD                          Financial Analysis for Total Incremental investment (Genera)
(+  t000)
Without  -------------------------------Year----------------------------------------------
Project    1          2   3      4       5      6       7       8     9       10   11-19    20
Smallholder Breeding
and Fattening
Sales                                -       -     4.93   4.93   4.93   4.93   4.93   4.93   4.93   4.93   6.13   4.93  12.93 a
Operating Costs                      -       -     3.56   3.56   2.56   3.68   3.68   3.70   3.83   2.85   3.35   1.85   1.85
Investments                          -      5.31    -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
Incremental Financip'1 Balance       -     (5.31)  1.37   1.37   2.37   1.25   1.25   1.23   1.10   2.08   2.78   3.08  11.08
Discounted Cash Flow - 30%           -     (4-08)   .81    .62    .83    .33    .26    .19    .14    .20    .20    .69    .06
Discounted Cash Flow - 35%           -     (3.94)   .75    .56    .71    .28    .20    .15    .10    .14    .14    .42    .02
Financial Rate of Return = 32%
/1  Includes salvage value of herd of f 8,ooo.
3 Cows at pl,200          3,600
1 Heifer at 0 1,200       1,200
2 Steers at r1,000        2,000
2 Calves at F 600         1 200



ANNEX 14
Table I
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Municipal Slaughterhouse  Model - (Daily Throughput 10-20 Cattle/Carabao. 60-100 Pigs)
Investnent Costa
---------Year 1-----------
Total        Total        Tota  END        F.E. Compon..nt
Investo,ent  Stein                                                     Unit        Unit Cost         No. of Units         Coat        Uoits        Coat          F`Stqninelt      2tO
(Pesos)                             (flO)                     Pi)
A. Site Worka
Sit. clearing-/                                                     M2              7               4,D00              28.0      4,000          28.0
Access  road                                                        M2             20                 600              18.0         600         18.0                          _
Security fence, 2 i high, with gutes                                M2             68                 260              17.6         260         17.6           2 347         62         1.448
Sub-total A                                                                                                        63.6                     63 6           8,480          17         1.448
B.  Buildings
Slaughter floors, cattlR , pigs                                     H2           482                  280             134.9         280        13479
Hanging & dispatch aret                                                          482                  120              57'8         120         57.8
Offal cleaning area                                                              482                  100              48.2         100         4S 2
Hide shed and stores                                                M2           406                   36              14.6          36         14.6
Administration & ne-t inepectors offices                            M2           557                   40              22.3          40         22.3
Change roons, showers, toilets                                      M2           457                   40              18.3          40         18.3
Building surrounds in concrete                                      H             71                  520              36.9         520         36.9
Boiler house & by-products                                          M0           405                   55              22.3          55         22.3
Cattle/carabao pens, with race to slaughterhouse .2                              177                  120              21.3         120         21.3
Pig pens with race to slaughterhouse                                M2           203                  180              36.5         180         36. 5
Sub-total B                                                                                                       413.1                    513.1           15,080         21        11.637
C. Utility Servicee
HWater, tub. well & puqp/                                           No        30,800                    1              30.8           1         30.8
tube well                                    No~~~~~~~~~~H  12,300                1             12.3           1         12.3
Head tank with stand                                                                                     1              423           1          423
Chlorination -nit                                                   No         4,300                    1               4.3           1          4.3
Gulvonoied pipee & fittings                                         No         4,600                    1               4.6           1          4.6
Effluent  catch basin                                               No         8,200                    1               8.2           1          8.2
Filter beds with concrete channel to irrigated lands                No         6,700                    1               6.7           1          6.7
Electrical, wiring & fittings                                       No        13,800                    1              13.8           1         13.8 7_S3                                   5
Electri-1, wiring & fittings                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~80.7          80.7          10, 756        37        -3.9-35
Sub-total C
D. Plant & Enoip2Senti'
Cattle/corabso sec tion -
Guillotine door, race/.tnoiS pen                                 No         2,100                    1               2.1           1          2.1
Stunning Pen                                                     No         6,800                    1              6.8            1          6.8
Captive bold pistol with ncrtridg-a                              No         2,000                    1              2.0            1          2.0
Manual hoiets complete with brake, wire rope                     N.           825                    4               3.3           4          3.3
and ewivel hook                                              N             2                                      .                        .
Bleeding rail with hangers and supporting steelwork              No         5,200                    1               5.2           1          5.2
Bleeding rollers with chain and back hook                        No           567                    3               1.7           3          1.7
Beef dressing trolleys, 2 fited & 2 ewivel cators.,
rubber tyredA_                                               No         1,350                     4              5.4           4           5.4
Dr.esing gambrele                                               NO            223                    4              0.9           4           0.9
Dreseing rail, to cover dressing floor hanging hall,
detention bay & dispatch area                                No         6,300                     1              6.3            1         6.3
Supporting stoelwork for drensing rail                           No         8,300                    1              8.3            1          8.3
8000 dreesing rollers                                            No            34                   80               2.7          80          2.7
Carcass splitting saw, complete with transfrtner, etc.           No         9,400                    1              9.4            i          9.4
Steps for carcass splitting operator                             No           900                    1              0.9            1          0.9
Beef trees, collapible., for splitting carcasses                 No           230                    2               0.5           2          0.5
Paunch dropping table, otainlean steel                           Ho         9,400                    1              9.4            1          9.4
Operators pluotforne, various sizes                              No           733                    3               2.2           3          2.2
Overhead track scale, capacity 350 kg                            No         9,900                    1               0.9           1          8.9
Offal rack. for inspecting red offals                           No          2,000                    1              2.D0           1          2.u
Head inspection truck, rubber tyred wheels                       No         1,900                    1                           1.9
Table., 6'x 3', stainless steel top, 20 galvanized                                                                   4.0           2          4.0
rube legs and stand                                          No         2,000                     24.2                                     40
Wheelbarrow forhide.,paunc.   contents (robber tyred wheele) No               425                    4               1.7           4          1.7
Wash hand basins, stainless steel, complete with knife                                                              4.0            1          4.0
bones                                                        No         4,000                     1
Pig section -
Guillotine door, race/stuoning area                              No         2.100                    1               2.1           1          2.1
Pig stunning equipoent, traneforser. 2 pairs
electrothslet tongs                                          No          3,000                    1              3.0            1          3.0
Sow stunning equipaeet, captive bolt pistol and
cartridges                                                    No           750                    1              0.8            1          0.8
Pig/saw bleeding shackles, loose rings, chain & hook type  No                 130                    4               0.5           4          0.3
pig/sow bleeding hoist block, push travel                        No         4,400                    1               4.4           1          4.4
Pig/sow scalding tank complete with hand lifting cradle,   N.
stew heated                                                            12.000                     1             12.0            1         12.0
Dehairing -achine, complete with iotur,stean heated             No         16,700                    1             16.7            1         16.7
Pig/sow gatbrelling table, galvenized                            No         1,900                    1               1.9           1          1.9
Pig/so  dressing hoist block fined madel                         No         4,100                    1               4.1           1          4.1
Gambrels 21" with akid top & back hook                           No            26                  120               3.1         120          3.1
Pig splitting saw, complete with transformer, etc.               No         7,800                    1               7.8           1          7.8
Pig/eow dressing rail including bleeding, hanging,
dispatch areas & supporting steelwork                        No        16,200                     1             16.2            1         16.2
Offal rack for inspecting red offala                             No           950                    1              I O            I          1.0
Tables 6' x 3' stainless steel top, 2" galvanized6
tube legs & stand                                            No         2,000                     3              6.0            2          6.0
Overhead track scale capacity 350 kg                             No         9,900                    1               9.9           1          99.
Hash hand beains, etainless creel,  oplete with knife
hones,  sto   heasted                                        No          3,950                    2               7.9           2          79



A5NNEX 14
Table 1
Page 2
Investment Cost. (Costioaed)
Total         Total       Total 1US$          F. E. Coo.poteet
Unit         Uoit Coot         No. of Unit.          Coot         Unite        Coat         Equivalent          F  E       100
(pe...o)                             (PIlos0                    (t0-00)
Itemo ,osawo to both sections -
Paunch trucks, golvazfoed, rubber tyred wheels           No               625                8                 5.0           8            5.0
Waste bins vith lids, galvonioed                         No                90                8                  0.7          8            0.7
Sowfoleovee oterilizer boots, electrically heated    No                 1,900                1                  1.9                       1.9
Staeking trays alasfose asodieed                         No                85               20                  1.7         20             1.7
Grindotone                                               Ne             1,507                1                  1.5           1           1.5
"NeYsell" eonomoy eproys, flexible hose                  No              400                 5                 2.0           5            2.0
Soo.p pa. .col.                                          No               800                1                 0.8            1           0.8
Skitning koive-                                          No                35               12                 0.4          12            0.4
Boning knives 6"                                         No                35               36                  1.3          36            1.3
"Steak knives"  10"                                      No               40                12                 0.5          12            0.5
Batcher belts                                            No                38               24                 0.9          24            0.9
Butcher knife toses                                      NO                62               24                  1.5         24            1.5
Steels, round                                            N.                71               24                  1.7         24             1.7
Hand saes. .ith spare blades                             No                55                6                  0.3           6           0.3
Cleavers                                                 No               120                6                  0.7           6           0.7
Cottiog boards                                           No               100               12                  1.2          12            1.2
Offal cleaoisg -eatioo.
Tripe waoher,  onital type                               N.             2,700                1                  2.7           1            2.7
Offal washiog tanks 5'o 25"x 2' with stand               NO             1,150                4                 4.6            4           4.6
Offal cleoning tables 6'x 3', galvanioed                 NO               825                4                  3.3          4             3.3
7/
By-produots soction-
Blood coagulating tano  4'. 3's 2' with  ratod           N.              800                 1                 0.8            1           0.0
Tallow rendering tanko 3's 2k's 2' with stood            No               750                2                  1.5           2            0.5
Beodering tooks., seat, boseseal                         N.              850                 2                  137          2             1.7
Grinding  -athiro  for seals                             No            4,200                 1                 4.2            1           4.2
Hids shed & Ioadies bey -
Ilotfors scale capacity 250 kg                           NO            3,650                 2                 7.3           2             7.3
Sub-total D                                                                                               236.2                      236.2        31,493             62    19,414
9/
E. Boiler-
Automatic package type, about 15 HP, silfired
for diesel fuel, oeassebed sorplete with all
fittings, feed otoer tank and othor assillory
equipment                                                   No           47,600                 1                47.6            1          47.6
Steampipe fittings and lagging                              NO             5,000                1                  5.0           1            5.8
Sub-total E                                                                                                   53.4                        53.4        7T12              SI       ,7)7
1I/
Meat delivery truck  - Slb-total F                          No           90,000                 1                 90,0           1           90.0        11,941             76      9,107
C., Offise Equipment
Furoiture, sundries - Sub-total G                            No            8,200                 1                 8.2           1            8.2         1,090            31         343
H.  Freight Installation-Sub-total H                                NO           57,900                 1                57.9            1          57.0         7,717              62     4.757
J.  Daion and Enjgneerig (at 5%.) - Sub-total 1                                                                          52.2                       52.2          6,960             50     3.480
(a)  Sub-total Civil Works (A + 8 + C)                                                                                                                  74,316              23    17,020
Contirge-ies, Phyoital 10%                                                                                                             15.7         7,432              -      1,702
Total (a)                                                                                                                          613.1        81,748              23    18,722
(b)  Slb-total Eqoipment tD + E + F + G + H)                                                                                               445.7        59,361              66    39.392
Contiogeocies, Physi-al 10%                                                                                                            44.6         5,936              -      3,93
Total (b)                                                                                                                          490.3        65,297              66    43,331
(c)  Design and gngineerirg                                                                                                                  52.2         6,960                     3,480
Cootiogenies., Physical 10%                                                                                                             5.2            696                      348
Total (t)                                                                                                                            57.4         7,656                     3,828
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST (a + b + c)                                                                                                         1,160.0       154,701             42    65,533
1/  Cost of land tot included as existing slaughterhouse is occupying a                       6t  All visecrs including intestines snd blood are disposed of as edible products.
valuable site within the township.                                                            Provision is mode for ths butchrs to clecn the viscera prior to morketimg.
2/  Prevision made far future installation of ohillroose.                                     7t  The minisso  by-products plant is provided to render nay condetesd eaterisls also to
3/ Mbticipal water sopplies ore geo.rolly liaited hesnt  poovision for                            toagulate snd dry blood not taken op by the butchero.
independent supply. atiinted well depth is 160'.                                          8f  Hides will be purshaned direct from butchers end dry selted.
4/ All etcept specialited machinery, panot nd equipment soy be                                9f  The alternative to a boiler wo-ld be electrically heated plsnt such as the pig
sanuf-at-red IO.aIly, o.oaetially freo  imported aatsrivls.                                   asaIding took and  Htorilfoeta.  Newavar ths boiler ad stam oqeipet is re- -sosmdmd
5/  In view of the  mnll throughput of largf anImals provision boa                                 to eaintain good sanitary conditions in the slaughterhouse.
bees mode fer n simple bed fiaying ayotem using mobile beef                             tOf  Th. body of the meat delivery truck will be mode lecally.
trolleys and mnnual hoists.  For the some reason, mcbhanital                             Ill  Freight uhergee based os 157. cost of ipertid equipment,hbsl.s. covero ioatsllatite,
flayers have bees omItted but these could be readily itosatled                                cotts of  ongiseer, oschaoitt  and laborers for 3 months verk.
if required (electrical type).
EAP Pro)ects Department
Septeeber 24. 1975



"0          0<         o    o                          ooooOOodOUO<OOFOIAJVS
0 -          100000                         0                        0.  00
noo          000w                  j   -    H onoto .0
3 ooo'o      -0  0.    ooo.0.0000n0  2 .,o                     - 0    000  -
00.00    H  H 0.00000.1000'0                         H     P n               o
000.00    H               00<1000  H o0.t-to  0                   0. to     
00  00   0 0Q  0 0 - -           00  8                         0 H --              0
000.00                  0    o"0 8 n to 01-I       2 oto-  00 - *- -n             000
o000*0 0- 0.oH o o on,- o a o
00.n00                     ,<   tooO        0     -           8 -
0.0  00   0 00      0 -    0 0          2                    0  00 0      0
11 0.00
o        ro.oo             2 o 
: :   ;                       0                n?       0
10000110                             2               - 00-n                p.      00
*    to                      00
o                             0
.0-0  0          0
H 0   0
00000            0
0. o             -
0- iiOO          0
0. 0-00
-  0.
00.0                **'**'**                    -
0<00.00      HO
00.     0000                     0          0       HHH.<           000
0.100-       00.00                                                1<
000  0       '00.                               H                  0    000
0.000<                                      0l0                    I..  0.0.0.
8332         0. 0.  000p.0000o00 0.0    op.'oo           p.o-jo
000.00      - 000                          - '                     -    000    I
00. 0 00     '0.    0000p.10 010.0 01000   0000       0  0000
0.000.     0000  0000000000000            0000      0 0000    10   0100    000-
00  0.       0000  0000000000000            0000      0 0000       0    000
2 < -o
10    -
'10 ooo         -                  00       10           -       -     I  H   I H
000    0 0.100-0. 0'0'0000-j0080.100    001010    10 CO0J      0.     j-4      00000
00                                      . .                    .    . .        000.0.10
0.00  gp. 00.00  00000l01000.0000      Op.0o      0 -toOto     0    101010     00000
00 10 0000 0000000000000 0000 0 000 0 1000 000010
0                                                                             I
-0      o o.-         o       0. -       - 0    10             -       0      I  1010 H
*      0 0.p.0'0 01010p.O0-40000.1010    op.Oo    10 p.000    .4   00-1               I
I                                                                      I
0. 10000  OOOoOO100.0.p.O00      op.00      0  .4100L0    0    00.00     00000
0. 0000  0000000000000           0000       0 0000       0    1000       0000
00  000   0    10                                                                         I
0    10            0      0              H
ooooo.oo  2 Gt8<o                            0000  10 p.000   0  '0100
0.0  0.00 no   o '0000  0000010100.0.0000       op.oo     0 00100.    0    000         0 .100.1
000.000<0-   10 0000  0000000000000             0000      0 00010      0    0.0.10     0000            to
00.0.0.0  00                                                                                           0
00000.00
000   000                                                                                              0
<0  00000   110.   10                                                                              0   0.
0.-'aOO   "  K0 0000         0       -j 0       0 -    10             -       10    I  HO I H    0   0<
0.00  00  0   0 0.0.010  0100000-400100100      op.Oo    10 0000       '0   '000    I oooojo  0        .0
- 000000   II.   . . .                    .    . . . .                 .    .         I 0000110  0 0       2
00  <0000   I 10 '000-4  0000010100.0.0000      0000      0 o-Jp.-o   '0   -.0100    I 00000  0 0
< g     3  flO 0000  0000000000000           0000       0 0000       0    100.0    10000jp.      :
0.00 0 000.                                                                                    tO
<On  <                                                                                     100
00 00<00                                                                                     In
00.  0.001                                                                                   00         0
0.0000.0000000            00   0-40             0 0    10            10   010          Ho
<0. oo0.0   0.   10                                                                                      0
00    00   0 0.00001010000000101010.0        010010    10 00.00     0    01010      00-jOe
00.00000                                      . . . .           .    .    . . .       0001100
;000;:;  -4    0                                                  0    0100        Ho 00  0   0 01000  000001000.0.0000  01000  0 000.0.    0    000  00000  0
0000  00.  '0 0000  0000000000000             0000       0 0000.      0    000        0000
00000<0                   000    00             0 0    10                           I      I H       P
00 000<0   H 10 0.00110 01010000 Oooooo 10   010010    10 00.00    10   op.0    I 001000
000.0 0 *.-                                                                       I 0000110
0-I..' 0 000   110 100.00  000001000.0.0.000  01000      0 0000       p.   -000    I 00000
0<0 0 o.0 0.  00. 0000  0000000000000         0000       0 0000       0    op.0    I n0001
00 000<0
0  00.0   0 0100.0     00000                 0 0    10            10   0100    I  Ho I H
0.00  0       0.000  010000000001000         0101010   10 00.00     0    00.0    I 0000.10
1.0000. 0Z. . . .                              . . .                 -  . - I 000010
000.0000   0 00010  000001000.0.0.000         0000       0 -4000    4    0 .-1   I 000010
00 0.000   00000  0000000000000              0000      0 0000        0    0810      0000
0 0<0                                                                            I
0<0.-c  0  fl-o    0                                                                j  Ho I H
0000000   *0 01000        000    000           0 0    10             10   0100        0010810
000  000   DO 0.1000  0101000000001000        01000    10 00.00    0    10-40        000. 10
100 0 00. I.. ... . . - 000010
'.10 0-n< 010 10000. 000001000.01000 8 01000 0 10.011010 0 0100 0000Io
<0000 1110 0000 000000000000 0000 0 00010 0 000
0 00000
0. 0.00 0
0    00<  0  0     0                                                                I
00<  '0  II            00000                 0 0    10            10   0100    I  Ho I H
-   nO  0  gO <.oOP  010000000001000          00010    10 0.000    0.    000    I 0000.10
- 000 0. . . .                                 . . . .               . . . . I 000010
000-     fib 10000  000001000.0.10000      01000     0 000         01    OjO     I 000010
00-0  0   0 0000.  0000000000000           0000      0 000         0    -400       0000
O 0100 0 110
01j 3
0  00<  0-   0    0                                                                 I
0. 00       O 0.10100 0000000001010010       00010    10 01-40 p.    0    000    I 0001-4.1
o   0   -   001000        000000               0 0    10             10    000    .  HO
<.. . . .                                                     . . . . I 000100
00.     [0 101000  00000100010.0000       01000     0 010010    10   01001    I 0000
0  00        0 00010  0000000000000           0000      0 00001    0    0100    I 00000
1 flqOl
</1 lOONY



PHILIPPINES
5.                                                                                         SECOND LCVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
M9Ihnicipal Slaughterhouse Model
Financial Projections
1               2               3               4               5               6               7               8                9               10                11-20
Cash Inflow
1.   Reven-es                                             608.0           665.0            723.0           781.0          840.1           899.2            959.3         1,019.5         1,079.6           1,139.8            1,139.8
2.  Investments
.  Eq.ity (257%)                                      288.9                              -              -                -              -                        -               -                -                 -
b.  Long-te.- Lo.n                                    866.7                                               -                             -               _                _              _                  -
Total Erpected Cash Inflow                         1,763.6           665.0           723.0            781.0          840.1           899.2           959.3         1,019.5          1,079.6          1,139.8             1,139,8
Cash Outflov
1. Investment
a.  Equity (25%)                                      288.9             _               _                _              _               _               _               _
b.  Long-term Loan                                    866.7                                                      -                       -                       -
2. Operating Costs                                        528.4           565.7            596.1           633.2          675.4           709.9           747.2            784.6           818.8            853.7               853.7
3.  Debt 8ervice                                                           52.0            104.0           104.0          210.8           210.8           210.8            210.8           210.8            210.8                 -
Total Erepted  Cash Outflow                         1,684.0           617.7           700.1            737.2          886.2           920.7           958.0           995.4          1,029.6          1,064.5              853.7
Surplus  Cash at year end                                  79.6            47.3             22.9            43.8          (46.1)          (21.5)             1.3           24.1             50.0             75.3               286.1
It  Loan ters of 10 yers., including 4 years of grace, 127, interent, p.o.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Slawthterhou-e Model
Profit sod Loss Proje.tions
1             2             3              4             5             6              7             Y              9              10             11-20
Income
Revenuex                                                 608.0          655.0         723.0          781.0          840.1        899.2          959.3       1,019.5        1,079.6         1,139.8          1,139.8
emanaee
Operating                                                528.4          565.7         596.1          633.2          675.4        709.9          747.2         784.6          818.8           853.7            853.7
Interest
long-ters lon                                          -             52.0         104.0          104.0          104.0         91.2          76.8           60.8          42.8             22.6              -
Depreci.tion-              _                                            56.4           56.4          56.4            56.4         56.4          56.4           56.4          56.4             56.4             56.4
Total ftpeo*e                                        528.4          674.1         756.5          791.8          835.8        857.5          880.4         901.8          918.0           932.7            910.1
Operating Io_m.                                              79.6          (9.1)         (33.5)        (10.8)           4.3          41.7          78.9          117.7         161.6            207.1            229.7
Adjeutunt to Profit and (Loss)
/ S.5n of total fixed investment over 19 yaers (year 2 to 20).



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
e                                                                              Ohaninipal - lau ihenhoune Model - (Daily Throughput:  10 - 20 Cattl/Carabhao, 60 - 100 Pigs
Financia1 Analysis
Revenue
Year I          Year 2            Year 3           Year 4          Yeer 5          Year 6           Year 7          Year 8           Year 9        Years 10 - 20
Nuaber of Animals Processed:
/1  Cattle/Carabao                                                             3,600            4,000             4,400            4,800           5,200           5,600            6,000           6,400            6,800           7,200
L2  Pigs                                                                       21.600          23 ,000           24,500           26,000          27,600          29 2        00       3 0         3 00             34.300          36,000
Unit
Unit           Value           ------------------------------------------------------------------------TOTAL VALUE------------------------------------------
FEESL3                                                                  (Pesos) (.000) .V.
Corral, Holding Pe.e:
Cattle/Caraobo                                        Heed            0.50            1.80            2.00              2.20             2.40            2.60            2.80             3.00            3.20             3.40             3.60
Pigs                                                   -              0.30            6.48             6.90             7.35             7.80             8.28           8.76             9.27             9.78           10.29            10.80
Ante-Martia:
Cattle/Ctrabhe                                         -              0.90            3.24             3.60             3.96             4.32             4.68           5.04             5.40            3.76             6.12             6.48
Pigs                                                                  0.60           12.96            13.80            14.90            15.60            16.56          17.52            18.54           19.56            20.58-           21.60
PFst-Mortem & Slaughter Fees
Cattla/Carabh.                                                        7.50           27.00            30.00            33.00            36.00           39.00           42.00            45.00           49.00            51.00            54.00
Figs                                                   -              4.50           97.20           103.50           110.25           117.00          124.20          131.40           139.05          146.70           154.35           162.00
Slaughterhsuse Servine Changes:
Cattle/Carobs-                                                        8.00           28.80           32.00             35.20            38.40           41.60           44.80           48.00            51.20            54.40           57.60
Pigs                                                   -              4.00           86.40            92.00            98.00           104.00          110.40          116.80           123.60          130.40           137.20          144.00
Meat Delivery Service:
Cattle/Carab-o, Crnass                                 -              2.40            8.64            9.60             10.56            11.52           12.48           13.44            14.40           15.36            16.32           17.28
Fig., Carnass                                          -              0.60           12.96            13.80            14,70            15.60            16.56          17.52            18.54           19.56            20.58           21.60
Cattle/Carabha, Viscera                                -              1.00            3.60            4.00              4.40             4.80            5.20            5.60            6.00             6.40            6.80             7.20
Pigs Viscera                                           -              0.60           12.96            13.80            14.70            15.60           16.56           17.52            18.54           19.56           20.58            21.60
SALE OF HIDES                                             No             85.80          306.00          340.00            374.00           408.00          442.00          476.00          510.00           544.00          578.00           612.00
TOTAL REVENUE                                                                608.04          665.00            723.02          781.04           840.12         899.20           959.34         1,019,48        1,079.62         1,139 76
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                        528.42          565.66            596.09          633.22           675.39         709.86           747.17          784.59           818.80           853.73
Margin, Revenue Oer Operating Costs                                                      79.62            99.34           126.93           147.82           164.73         189.34          212.17           234.89           260.82          286.03
1  Daily thnaughput increased fron 10 to 20 head over a period of 10 Y.asr
/2  Daily throughput Increeed fran 60 to 100 head over a period of 10 years
3 All fees and servIce charges ar in aeeeadi with official ragulatioca, totals incresaed
yearly in lis Arth throughput.
L4  Based en average nurrent prices  sbtainmd fron tnneries for first/second grades.
Payable - sllughterhouse.  (Production of -eat end bone ne.   l fran condeened material                                                                                                                                                             a a
neSligible end not innluded).



ANNEX 14
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJEGT
Municipal Slaughterhouse Model  _ Daily Throughput
10 - 20 Cattle/Carabao, 60 - 100 Pigs
Financial Analysis for Total Investment
Total Revenue                 Total Cost                  Net Income
1.       608.04                      1,684.02                    (1,075.98)
2.       665.oo                        565.66                        99.34
3.       723.02                        596.09                       126.93
4.       781.04                        633.22                       147.82
5.       840.12                        675.39                       164.73
6.       899.20                        708.86                       189.34
7.       959.34                        747.17                       212.17
8.     1,019.48                        784.59                       234.89
9.     1,079.62                        818.80                       260.82
10.     1,139.76                        853.73                       286.03
Financial Rate of Return = 17%
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



ANNEX 15
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP Administration, Technical Services, Equipment and Research
Investment Prolections
-Year ('OOO) -----
Total
1      2       3      4     Total Years          Project Cost
5-11-         (P' 000)   - (Us 00)
DBP Administrative Charges
Salaries                                   520    520      520   520       1, 430          3,510
Processing                                  40      40      40    40         110             270
Travel                                      45      45      45    45         128             308
Stationery, etc.                            20      20      20    20          55             135
Other allowances and miscellaneous          25      25       25    25         70             170
Sub-total                                                               1, m  m     i;73  4  39         ;
Project Vehicles
Field vehiclesi/                            270     -       -      _         270             540
MotorcyclesZ/                              160    160       -      -         320             640
Gas, oil and repairsi/                      43      59      59    59         325             545
Sub-total                               73                9        7915                  77
Technical Services
Technical specialists4/                     -      730      -      -        -                730
Short term consultants5/                   225    225      225    -         -                675
Support staff6/                            200    200      200   200       1,100           1,900
Subsistence and miscellaneous              100    100      100    70         385           1,755
Sub-total                                2   1,2557      2    270                       75-67
Applied Investigational WbrkZ/                 375    375      375    -         -             1,125          150
Sub-total                                2,023  2,499   1,609   979        4,193          11,303        1,510
Physical contingencies (5%)                101  _125        80    49         210             565           75
TOTAL                                       2,124  2,624   1,689 1,030        4,400          11,867        1,600
1/  Five jeeps during DBP main disbursement period (years 1-41) and five replacements during repayment period
(years 5-14).
2/ Fifty mnotorcyles during DBP main disbursement period and fifty replacements during repayment period.
3/ At 10% of capital cost,
Z/ Nine man/years for a cattle specialist and a monitoring specialist.
;/ Two man/years for consultants on pig nutrition, poultry nutrition, by-products feeding and backyard cattle
breeding/fattening. Expected that each of the four consultants will be employed for about three short
periods over a three year period. (Travel and subsistence is included.)
6/ Ten man/years, initially assigned to work with technical specialists.
7/ Applied investigational work on pig and poultry feeds and feeding to be carried out under contract by a
suitable institution. Items financed will include laboratery and other investigational equipment, feeds,
livestock, labor and salary grants.
EAP Projects Department
February 19, 1976



ANNEX 16
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJCT       -
DBP Agricultural Projects Department Staffing
(As of May, 1975)
OFFICE OF THE MANAGER
1 Manager
1 Asst. for Branches & Agencies Matters
1 Administrative Assistant
1 Messenger
4
FISHERIES GROUP                            CROP GROUP
lAssistant Manager                        1 Assistant Manager
2 Division Chief                           2 Division Chief
3 Head Project Supervisor                  2 Head Project Supervisor
2 Head Financial Analyst                   2 Project Analyst
2 Project Supervisor                       3 Project Supervisor
2 Project Analyst                          1 Asst. Project Analyst
3 Asst. Project Supervisor                 2 Crop Appraiser
1 Asst. Financial Analyst                  1 Forester
I Naval Architect                          1 Financial Aide
1 Marine Engineer                          1 Record Clerk
2 Marine Surveyor                         16
4 Fishery Appraiser
2 Financial Aide                        PLANS & PROGRAMS GROUP
1 Record Clerk
27                                          1 Assistant Manager
2 Sr. Technical Asst.
LIVESTOCK & POULTRY GROUP                     1 Technical Asst.
2 Division Chief
1 Assistant Manager                        3 Section Head
3 Division Chief                           1 Agricultural Economist
4 Head Project Supervisor                  1 Statistician
3 Project Analyst                          1 Asst. Agricultural Specialist
3 Project Supervisor                       6 Research Aide
3 Asst. Project Supervisor                 3 Statiscal Aide
12 Livestock Appraiser                      1 Record Clerk
4 Financial Aide                          22
1 Record Clerk
34                                       MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP
CEREALS & FEED GRAINS GROUP                   1 Assistant Manager
3 Division Chief
1 Assistant Manager                        1 Technical Asst.
2 Division Chief                           2 Section Head
3 Head Project Supervisor                  1 Head Project Supervisor
3 Project Supervisor                       2 Project Accountant
2 Asst. Project Supervisor                 1 Project Supervisor
2 Asst. Project Analyst                    5 Account Examiner
7 Cereals Appraiser                        1 Incharge in Adm. Services
2 Financial Aide                           8 Assistant Account Examiner
22



ANNEX 16
Table 1
Page 2
-2-
MANAGEMENT SERVICES GROUP
2 Loan Application Examiner
3 Accts. Examiner Aide
1 Record Supervisor
4 Accounting Clerk
2 Sr. Action Clerk
3 Action & File Clerk
1 Releasing Clerk
4 Record Clerk
7 Clerk Typist
1 Messenger
53
T O T A L - -               17B
EAP Projects Department
November 13, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                                                             COMMISSION
OF                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON
JUSTICE                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUDIT
r    CHAIRMAN 
[   SUPERIVISI N.   l                                                          SUPERVISING                             SUPERVISING                            SUPERVISING
GOVERNORt    l                                                             l GOVERNOR                                  GOVENOR                               GOVERNOR
|EXECUTIVE                            EXECTIVE
OFFICER                               OFFICER
| DEVELOPMENI      | ACQUIRIE ASSETS |                                                                    |           |  INDUSTRIAL          INSUSTm AL     I
AND RURAL BANKS    MANAGEMENT                        TREASURER                             COMPTROLLER                   PROJECTS         I PROJECTS                                        AUDITING
DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT                                                                                           DEPARTMENDEPARTMENTEI DTMENT III                                   DEPARTMENT
0 MUNITY                     CATERAL             SECURITIES        ELECTRONIC                                        INDU TRIAL                   BRANCHES AND        AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT                   COLLATEAL           MANAGEMENT        DATA PROCESSING       ACCOUTING                    PROJECTS                                        PROJECTS
PROJECTS                       MANAGEMEN           EPRMNT  DEPARTMENT                     DEPARTMENT                   DEPARTMENT 1I               DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT
U                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32 BRANCHES
LEGAL                          OFFICE OP             BUSINESS          PERSONNEL                DIT             GENERAL            MEDICAL AND
DEPARTMENT                     THE SECRETARY         RESERC            ADMINISTRATION       CEPARTMENT                             DE
IDESPA  DEPARTMEPRTMNTEERICE                                         DETA
DEPARTMENT   l  DEPARTM ENT            D                   DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT   l                        23 AGENCIES                W     snE-EB3 N
World B..k-9981






PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
DBP Agricultural Projects Department
Office of the
Manager
Plans & Programs
221
&Pulr                                                               Feedgrvices                           l
Beef Cattle              Pig                     Poultry
Division                 Division                Division
Note: Numbers refer to staff as of May, 1975
World Bank-15163






ANNEX 17
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
Full Time Consultants
1.        The First Livestock Development Project emphasized the provision
of technical services to (a) strengthen DBP as an institution for chanelling
credit for livestock development to small and medium sized producers and
(b) to provide borrowers with sufficient technical and management advice
and supervision to achieve efficient production. Under the project, DBP
reorganized its Agriculture Projects Department to establish separate
groups which specialize in the different types of activity, such as Live-
stock and Poultry, Cereals and Feedgrains, Crops and Fisheries. The Live-
stock and Poultry Group has been strengthened by the provision of technical
services, and the performance of the three specialists provided has been
generally satisfactory. The funds for the three specialists were included
in the first loan but the Government obtained New Zealand bilateral assistance
for this and the funds have been reallocated for farm loans. It is possible
that bilaieral assistance will again be obtained for the technical services
in the Project but the Government agrees with the Bank's proposal to include
funds in the loan for these essential services in case bilateral sources do
not materialize. These funds can be reallocated if bilateral aid is provided.
2.        The quality and motivation of DBP's management and staff has
contributed significantly to the success of the first project. Good
appraisal procedures are now followed in the Livestock and Poultry Group
based on thorough herd/flock, investment and financial projections. The
quality of loan approval based on examination of a fairly large sample of
loan files and checked against actual on-farm development indicates a satis-
factory standard of appraisal and the adoption of realistic technical and
financial coefficients.
3.        However, DBP's follow-up supervision of livestock loans is in-
adequate in quality and quantity and a major objective of the technical
services provided under the Project would be to remedy this. To establish
good routine appraisal procedures, it was essential that the specialists
in the first project become actively involved in appraisal work on a day-
to-day basis. This workload, together with their other functions, does
not, however, allow sufficient time for much supervision of such loans
after appraisal. Therefore, because of the importance of good loan super-
vision to DBP and their borrowers, the Project will pay particular atten-
tion to this aspect and technical services will concentrate on loan super-
vision (including regular monitoring of the livestock loan portfolio). DBP
is anxious to improve the standard of sub-loan supervision and monitoring



ANNEX 17
Page 2
and the Project would provide to assist DBP two specialists for one year
(on cattle production and on monitoring) to follow onthe work of the present
three specialists on the first project when their terms expire in November,
1976. In addition BAI would provide additional technical services for DBP sub-
borrowers (para 3.17). Suggested terms of reference for these specialists
are in Appendix 1.
4.        The technical specialists would spend most of their time working the
field with DBP's appraisal staff. Particular attention would be given to
training of DBP staff, especially to upgrading the appraisers' technical
knowledge and developing financial and technical indicators that reflect
efficient production and management. It is expected that, on average, two
farm visits would be required for most subloans in the first year and this
might be reduced from there on. Innovative subloans (backyard cattle
and dairy) may require more than two visits in the first year. Priority
should be given to drawing up a simple recording system to be kept by the
farmer, reflecting important technical and financial coefficient. During
a farm visit, the appraiser/supervisor should review technical and financial
performance indepth and fully discuss matters with the farmer. Since pig
and poultry enterprises are usually clustered in an around urban areas and
villages, a supervisor could manage up to 400 farm visits per year if
supervision only is involved. Motorcycles would be provided to DBP's
appraisal/supervisory staff under the project to improve farm visit capa-
bility. Attention would be given to planning a schedule of farm visits
to ensure each supervisor achieves the target visits. In addition field
days would be organized regularly on sub-borrowers farms to demonstrate
management and technical aspects to groups of sub-borrowers and potential
sub-borrowers. DBP would assign about three counterparts to work at any
one time with each technical specialist to ensure that maximum benefit is
obtained from the specialists' expert knowledge. In addition to helping
organize proper supervision of sub-loans these DBP technicians would provide
on-going refresher training for branch technicians in technical and economic
aspects of livestock production. Under the guidance of the two specialists,
three DBP technicians would also liaise with the BAI the Philippine Council
of Agricultural Research, with the University of Philippines and other
appropriate agencies. This will provide the essential link between related
activities in other agencies and DBP's considerable involvement in the
livestock subsector.
Short Term Consultaats
5.        Under the first project, a consultant on applied nutrition was
provided to advise on the feasibility of utilizing molasses and sugarcane
for cattle production and on the investigational work that would be needed
to establish economic feasibility. Pilot work is still in progress but
sufficient evidence is now at hand to suggest that these by-products have
an important role to play in livestock production. The main constraint is
the scarcity of feeder cattle, particularly in the sugarcane production
areas. Work now in progress should establish the economic feasibility of
keeping a breeding herd in a feedlot, with or without milking (at least



ANNEX 17
Page 3
once a day), on a feeding system using sugarcane, molasses, urea and ipil-
ipil (Leucaena leucocephala). Because of the important implication of this
work, provision would be made for three short-term visits by a consultant
under the Project to continue the work. The background pilot investigational
work to date and future implications if successful are fully described in a
report prepared by the consultant which has been submitted to DBP and IBRD.
The consultant would particularly concentrate on the development of this
activity by small farmers in the sugar growing areas.
6.        A further development since the first project was appraised has
been the growth of a small feedlot industry based on reject bananas of
which there are large quantities from the banana areas of Mindanao. The
consultant in applied nutrition would also provide technical advice on
this new enterprise.
7.        The evaluation of local feeds and the upgrading of rations for
pigs and poultry is of particular importance in the Philippines (Annex 2).
The Project would make provision for this by the Government granting funds
for applied investigational work to be carried out by a suitable institution.
The Project would provide for the employment of consultants (experts on
pig and poultry nutrition) to define the investigational program, to specify
the investigational techniques and method of reporting. These consultants
would be employed on a short-term basis and each would be required about
three times for about three weeks duration, over a two or three year period.
Draft terms of reference for these short-term consultants are in Appendix 2.
8.        To assist with the backyard cattle component the Project would pro-
vide a short term consultant to investigate this type of enterprise. This
consultant would concentrate particularly on defining the potential role of
this type of production, recommending management practices (particularly
feeding) and determing the best way of providing farmers with essential
off-farm services (particularly for mating and veterinary care).



ANNEX 17
Appendix I
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.   Cattle Production Specialist - (Draft Terms of Reference)
Duties and Responsibilities
1.        The production specialist would be responsible to the Chief of the
Livestock and Poultry Group. His duties and responsibilities would include;
(a) to assist in the execution of the coconut/cattle, hill
beef and backyard beef cattle components;
(b) to assist the Chief of the Livestock and Poultry Group
in establishing technical/financial supervision of on-
going cattle loans. This would include training field
staff for this purpose and establishing procedures and
recording systems requirements to ensure a high standard
of loan supervision. The service should provide adequate
supervision and technical assistance as needed to ensure
successful completion of poultry loans;
(c) to assist the Agricultural Projects Department to produce
an annual livestock loan portfolio monitoring report based
on review of a random selection of an adequate number of
sub-loan enterprises;
(d) to advise and recommend major policy and procedural
matters with respect to the cattle component of the
project;
(e) to evaluate and make recommendations on investment
projects if requested to do so. (It is expected that
such work would be confined to a small number of dif-
ficult or unusual projects.)
(f) to provide, inter alia, guidance on design and specifi-
cations of cattle corals, pricing and equipment; advising
farmers on cattle production and management techniques,
including grassland improvement management, use of sup-
plements, antibiotics, vaccines and veterinary medicines,
feeding methods for different categories of stock;
(g) to assist in the selection of livestock technicians
needed to carry out the coconut/beef, hill beef and
backyard beef components;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 2
(h) to assist with the production and revision of pamphlets
and manuals for the guidance of livestock appraisers/
supervisors and sub-borrowers;
(i) to advise the Chief of the Livestock and Poultry Group
on the duties and responsibilities of the livestock
technicians with respect to the cattle components of
the Project;
(j) to assist in the training of technicians in technical
and economic aspects of beef cattle production and in
the techniques of preparing farm investment projects,
both through assisting DBP to run training courses
for livestock technicians and through on-the-job training
of groups of about three technicians at a time - on a
totational basis - who will be assigned by DBP to work
with the specialists;
(k) to assist in the establishment of adequate farm account-
ing system for use by sub-loan beneficiaries;
(1) organize and conduct field days and seminars for in-
terested producers and sub-borrowers to promote the
sub-loan program and instruct farmers in modern methods
of livestock development;
(m)  to investigate methods of development of natural grass-
land including pasture grass and legume evaluation and
response to fertilizer, with particular attention to low
input systems;
(n) to determine the most suitable grasses and legumes for
sub-borrower conditions, including sowing and cultivation
techniques, seeding rates and response to fertilizers;
(o) to formulate and supervise the introduction of a
*cheme for seed multiplication on suitable sub-bor-
rower farms; and
(p) to liaise on grassland research with the Philippine
Council of Agricultural Research (PCAR), University
of Philippines, Los Banos, other Government agencies
and the UNDP Research unit concerned with pasture
development under coconuts.
Qualifications and Experience
2.        The cattle production specialist should have the following
qualifications:



ANNEX 17
Appendix 1
Page 3
(a) a university degree in Agriculture or allied Sciences
such as Animal Husbandry or Animal Science or equivalent
experience;
(b) specialized knowledge of cattle production which could
include specialized knowledge or training in tropical
pasture or considerablyexperience (not less than three
years) in extension or development work related to cattle
production;
(c) the ability to prepare and carry out training courses
for livestock technicians; and
(d) the ability to work with administrative and management
personnel and with cattle producers.
Preference should be given to candidates who have had experience of cattle
production in the Philippines or in an environment similar to that of the
Philippines.
II.  Monitoring Specialist - (Draft Terms of Reference)
3.        The specilist would report to the head of the Plans and Programs
Group of DBP's Agricultural Projects Department, and in consultation with
the head of the Livestock and Poultry Group of DBP would, inter alia:
(a) assist DBP to establish a permanent system which
would monitor the physical and financial results
at the producer level of IBRD-assisted livestock
development projects;
(b) review and revise as necessary, the monitoring
system; and
(c) train DBP staff to implement, operate and revise
as necessary, the monitoring system and arrange
for sub-borrowers to keep the records essential
for the system.
4.        A carefully stratified sample of projects representing about 10Z
of the total livestock sub-projects assisted by Bank funds would be selected
and monitored. The specialist would establish objective criteria and pro-
cedures for selecting projects to represent the more important livestock
and farming types and enterprise sizes and also cover the more important
livestock production regions of the Philippines.
5.        The specialist would design a simple farm accounting system suitable
for recording the data required from sub-borrowers. Such records would
show, inter alia:



ANNEX 17
Appendix I
Page 4
(a) The number and/or value of assets and liabilities
as well as details of operations (physical and financial),
before development;
(b) the number, nature, and value of investments made
and their timing;
(c) the source of investment funds for inputs made in
(b) above;
(d) changes in the number and value of physical assets;
(e) the quantity, value, and source of income;
(f) expenses and production costs, showing details
of important items; and
(g) repayment record on the DBP sub-loan.
6.        In the light of experience the specialist will determine how
frequently DBP technical staff and loan supervisors would need to visit
sub-borrowers who are keeping monotoring records, in order to maintain the
desired degree of accuracy in data collection.
7.        The specialist would assist DBP to define responsibilities of DBP
personnel with respect to implementation of the monitoring system, namely:
(a) the duties of specific livestock technicians at the
head office and branch levels; and
(b) the duties of a suitably qualified and experienced
staff member in each branch office who would coordinate
and supervise monitoring in each region.
8.        The specialist would conduct such training sessions as may be
necessary (including preparing a training manual and drawing up training
materials).
9.        The specialist would prepare a detailed manual for DBP staff at
all levels to record the criteria, procedures and objectives of the monitoring
system.
10.       Prior to the termination of the appointment the specialist would
submit a final report covering the work performed and recommending to DBP
any additional work on the monitoring system which may require attention.



ANNEX 17
Appendix 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Short Term Consultants - Draft Terms of Reference
I.   Pig and Poultry Nutrition Consultants
Duties and Responsibilities
1.        The (pig/poultry) nutrition consultant in consultation with the
Department of Agriculture and the relevant research institutions would be
responsible for:
(a) drawing up an applied research program on pig nutrition
to be carried out by the selected institution(s).
The program should have the objective of establishing
the most economic feeding regimen for different
categories of pigs/poultry using domestically produced
feeds to a maximum. The program would include:
(i) evaluation of the feeding and substitution values
of low energy cereal by-products and establishing
the limits for their use in pig/poultry rations in
conjunction with the inclusion of high energy feeds
such as corn and cassava meal;
(ii) evaluation of the feeding and substitution values of
different sources of protein such as copra, soyabean
meal, fish meal and ipil-ipil meal and establishing
limits for their use in pig/poultry rations.
(b) preparing a report in consultation with the cooperating
university staff personnel clearly defining the program
of work. It should specifically:
(i) detail the sequence and design of trials and
methods to be used;
(ii) specify the facilities, materials, and personnel
required to carry out the trials and their source;
(iii) identify the research staff who will be responsible
for the work and supporting staff and varify their
suitability and capability for carrying out the
work;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 2
Page 2
(iv) show the budget for the work program and suggested
phasing. (The budget should provide all funds that
are considered necessary to ensure that the work
program is carried out to the required standards
and consideration should be given to the need and
desirability of "topping up" the salary of the
staff member with major responsibility for exec-
uting the work); and
(v) specify the reporting procedures in detail and timing
for interim and final reports to be prepared by the
participating staff.
(c) providing staff with comprehensive briefing on the objec-
tives of the program and the research techniques to be
used;
(d) supervising the on-going work by means of short-term
visits and preparing supervision reports for the
Department of Agriculture. It is expected that super-
vision will require 2-4 weeks at about 6-12 month
intervals and a total of 3 to 4 supervisions is envisaged;
(e) preparing a final report on the work carried out. The
final report should deal with both the results obtained
and a critical examination of this method of providing
for investigation of particular technical problems.
Experience and Qualifications
2.        The Consultant should be an experienced pig/poultry nutritionist
with a specialized qualification in pig/poultry nutrition and/or at least
five years experience of applied pig/poultry nutrition work. Preference
would be given to a specialist with previous relevant experience in the
Philippines or in an environment similar to the Philippines.
II. Consultant on the Use of By-Products for Ruminants
Duties and Responsibilities
3.        It is expected that the consultant would be required three times
each for periods of about 2-3 weeks over a three year period. In coopera-
tion with the Chief of the Livestock and Poultry Group of DBP and the
cattle production specialist the consultant would:
(a) continue the pilot investigational program which was
undertaken by the "Consultant on Use of Molasses"
under the first livestock project, with particular
reference to the development of feedlots on small farms;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 2
Page 3
(b) reviewing the results of feeding trials which have
already been carried out on the use of molasses,
sugar cane and bananas and suggesting appropriate
follow-up trials and the inclusion of other by-
products if considered appropriate;
(c) review the efforts made under the first project
to extend small feedlots based on sugar cane and
molasses to small scale cane growers;
(d) continue the investigation in progress into the
technical and financial potential of establishing
breeding herds with or without milking, under
feedlot conditions using predominantly locally
available feedstuffs;
(e) construct farm budgets based on information
accumulated and prepared interim and final
reports including an assessment of the impli-
cation of the results of the work for livestock
production in the Philippines and make recom-
mendations on the appropriate role for DBP in
connection with these types of enterprise.
Experience and Qualifications
4.        The consultant should be a specialist in ruminant nutrition with
experieace in the feeding of sugar cane, molasses, bananas and other by-
products.
III. Consultant on Backyard Cattle Production Systems
Duties and Responsibilities
5.        The consultant would be required on 2 or 3 occassions over 3 years
each of from 4-8 weeks duration. In cooperation with the Chief of the Live-
stock and Poultry Group of DBP and the cattle production specialist, the
consultant would be responsible for:
(a) identification and classification of different smallholder
farming systems in the Philippines with potential for backyard
cattle breeding and/or fattening;
(b) preparation of cattle production models for each farming
system identified;
(c) establishment and monitoring of physical and financial
inputs/outputs on one demonstration farm for each model
proposed;



ANNEX 17
Appendix 2
Page 4
(d) preparation of a report(s) covering the following items
in depth:
(i) number of cattle and carabao used for breeding, and/or
draft, or fattening in different farming systems and
potential for increasing number of cattle carried on
available forage resources in the different areas of
importance;
(ii) possibility of increasing the quantity and quality
of forage resource available for use by smallholder
cattle activities;
(iii) detailed information on animal performance expected;
(iv) detailed cost estimates including fixed equipment,
feed, labor and other charges and an estimated rate
of return on investment.
Experience and Qualifications
6.        The consultant would be a cattle production specialist with exten-
sive experience of small scale cattle production in the Philippines or in
an environwent similar to the Philippines.                i



aPHILIPPINES
- X                                                                                                      SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPESNT PROJECT
'I                                                                                             Phesing of the LendEof Program and hropo-.d Finnncing
--------Phasing of Investment (51lo1  P..os)                                                        ----Fhostng of Loon Co-,itment----
FY77          FY78           FY79           F80            FY81           FY82           FY83-90           Total           FY77       FY78      FY79       L0an8
Inveetment
Pig Breeding/Fattening                                                         23.704         36.523         40.606          7.991            -              _               _             108.824          500       650        700        1,850
PFoltry:  Broilers                                                              6.647          6.647          7.477            -              -              -               -             20.771           80         80         90          250
Layer.                                                                5.194          9.049         9.049          3.855            -              -               -              27.147           50         50        50          150
Cattle:  Hill Flrrm                                                             2.608          5.102          5.540          2.444          0.950         0.512             -              18.156           20         20         20          60
Coconut/Beef - 5 he                                                    0.390         0.959          1.273          0.883          0.314            -               -               3.819           50         50        50          150
Coconut/Peef - 20 h.                                                   4.603          9.282        12.134          7.277          2,318            _               -              35.358           90         90        90          270
Coconut/D.iry - 10 h-                                                  0.273          0.551         0.590          0.272            -              -               -               1.686            6          7         7           20
S-all Scale Beef                                                       0.212         0.319          0.531            _              _              _               _               1.062           40        60        100          200
Sob-totae  (Faror)                                                             42.631         68.432         77.200         23.722          3.582         0.256             -             216.823          866      1,037      1,147       2,950
Sl.oghterhou.es                                                                    -           4.644          6.966            -              -              -              -              11.610           -           4          6           10
Sob-total                                                                      43.631         73.076         84.166         23.722          3.582         0.256             -             228.433          866      1_041     1,153        3_060
Feed QOulity Control Progtnm                                                     2.000         4.000            -              -              -              -              -               6.000
Ad.ini.tratioe, Technical Services, Equipment and Research                      2.124          2.624          1.689          1.030          1.304         0.344           2.752            11.867
Total Investnent                                                               47.755         79.700         85.855         24.752          4.886         0.600           2.752           246.300
Price Contingen.ies                                                             5.173         14.975         27.323          9.544          2.358         0.352           3.483            63.208
Total.                                                                      52.928         94.675        113.178         34.296         7.244          0.952           6.235           309.508
Pr.posed Financing of In-eatment
IBRD                                                                           25.482         52.340         57.259         17.244         1.425            -               -             153.750
DBF                                                                            21.117         28.387         40.396         13.272         5.208          0.906           6.235           115.521
Beneficiaries                                                                   6.329         13,948         15.523          3.780         0.611          0.046            -               40.237
Total Invest-ent FLn.ncong                                                  59.928         94.675            1 13.l78    34.296          7.244         0.952           6.235           309.508



ANNEX 19
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVEaTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements-
IBRD Fiscal Year                        Quarterly              Cumulative Total of
and Quarter                          Disbursement                Disbursements
-US$1000.
FY77
First Quarter (July 1 to Sept 30)           700                           700
Second Quarter                              700                         1,400
Third Quarter                               700                         2,100
Fourth Quarter                              800                         2,900
FY78
First Quarter                               900                         3,800
Second Quarter                            1,000                         4,800
Third Quarter                             1,200                         6,000
Fourth Quarter                            1,300                         7,300
FY79
First Quarter                             1,4oo                         8,700
Second Quarter                            1,500                        10,200
Third Quarter                             2,000                        12,200
Fourth Quarter                            1,700                        13,900
Fy80
First Quarter                             1,500                        15,400
Second Quarter                            1,100                        16,500
Third Quarter                             1,000                        17,500
Fourth Quarter                              800                        18,300
FY81
First Quarter                               600                        18,900
Second Quarter                              500                        19,400
Third Quarter                               400                        19,800
Fourth Quarter                              300                        20,100
FY82
First Quarter                                200                       20,300
Second Quarter                              200                        20,500
1/  The schedule includes a 6 month allowance for slippage.
RAP Projects Department
February 19, 1976



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Protected Project Cash Flow
(With Co.t"ngeoies)
<                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(t MIllion)
1SOUCE OF FU9LB:                                          (y77           PY78          FY79          FY80          FY01          FY82          FY8           FY84          FY85          7Y86          FY87          FY88          FY89          FY90
(7 6/77)
DgP OovePns.-t FNcdo Far
ParIs L.os a.d Slsoghterho-sas                          18.019       26.205        39.122        11.931         4.700         0.360
Feed Quality Cootrol Program                            2.000         1.080           -             -             -             -             -             -             _             _             _             _             -
Ad.iniatrat,oL, Techical Services, Eqnipmnt
cod R.ssarbh                                         1.098         1.082         1.274         1.341         0.508         0.546        0.588         0.630         0.674         0.720         0,770         0.825         0.883         0.945
Sob-total                                           21.117        28.387        40.396        13.272         5.208         0.906         0.588         0.630         0.674         0,720         0.770        0.825         0.883         0.945
15RD FPnds For:
Fare Dm0. and S1aogtorhoses                            24.456        47.898        55.989        17.158           -             -             -             -             -             -             _             _             _
Feud Qo.liy Cootrol Progyno                               -          3.000           -             -
Adntinttration, Ts,hnirel  Eervirsa, Oqoiporot
and Rseo-roh                                         1.026         1.442         1.270         0.086         1.425                        -       - -_-  -_           _                                                         
Sob-total                                           25.482        52.340        57.259        17.244         1.425           -             -                           -      -                    - _  _                                   -
Rspasonot of Loans
Pig Broediog/Pottetnig                                    -           1.430        10.208        22.044        33.099        33.099        33.099       24.898        13.390
Poultry:  Broilers                                        -           1.601         3.330         5.430         5.430         5.430         5.430        3.829         2.100           -
Layrer                                          _          0.318         2.597         5.059         7.316         7.316         7.316         7.316         5.063         2.629           -             -            -
Cattle.  Hill Part                                       _           0.166         0.666         1.394         2.852         4.018         5.042        5.042          5.042        5.042         5.042         3.486         1.808
Coronot/Blsf - 5 ho                              -          0.029         0.125         0.293         0.646         0.939         1.180         1.180         1.188         1.180         0.814         0.426
Croonrt/Beef - 20 ho                             -          0.289         1.187         2.634         5.452         7.734         9.781         9.781         9.781         9.781         6.099         1.998          -             -
Co-nottDltiy - 10 ha                             _          0.017         0.069         0.145         0.270         0.370         0.457         O457          0.457         0.457        0.331         0.172           -             -
Smll Scale Beef                                  -          0.014         0.074         0.175         0.283         0.283         0.283         0.283         0.283         8.232        0.149         _               -             -
Sob-totol (Farms)                                      -           3.863        18.256        37.174        55.348       59.189        62.588        52.786        37.296        19.321        12.435         6.082         1.8C8           -
811uglotnshoo-en_                                                       _           0.247         0.894         1.295         1.803        2.625         2.625         2.625         2.625         2.625     .   1.623
S.b-ttol1                                                          3.863        18.503        38.068       56.643        60.992        65.213        55.411        39.921        21.946        15.060         8.609        0.904           -
Totr1  SOvrce of FPods                                    46.983        84.391       116.158        68.584        63.276        61.898        65,801       56.041        40.595        22.666        15.830         9.434         1.787        0.945
APPLICATION OSF Fv9DS
Farm Lassi and llancbterbioeOs
pioaod by DBP                                          18.019        26.205        39.122        11.931         4.700        0.360            -            -             -             _             -             _                          -
Financed by IBID                                       24.456        47.898        55.989        17.158                                                                 ---
Slb-totel                                           42.475        74.103        95.111        29.089        4.700         0.360           -             -             -             -             -            _             -             -
Feed Qg4lity Cont-ol PerBoa-
Flnanred by Gov-rn met                                  2.00D         1.000           -             -
Fi6sDaed by IBRD                                          -           3.000
slb-total                                            2.000         4.000
Admdistrsi-on.  Tebhoiloe  Dor_ tei.. EalliVant
ard Researelt
Piu.aaed by DBP/Ooore mont                               1.098        1.182         1.274         1.341         0.508         0.546        0.588         0.630         0.674         0.720        0.770         8.825         0.883         0.945
Financed by I0RD                                        1.410         1.442         1.270         0.086         1.425           -__                                                                _-
Rub-total                                            2.508         2.624         2.544         1.427         1.933        0.546         0.588         0.630        0.674         0.720         0.770         0.825         8.883         0.945
RiePay-ets to  DPvosotent by DBF
IBDC-fet-mt F-/-                                                   0.923         0.372         0.140         8.011           -             -            -             -             -             -                             
7RRD loan PsymetFe/ -                                                 0.146         4.279         8.715       11896        26.595        26.593        26.595       26.595        26.595        36.595        36.595       26.595         4.640        lo
Total Application of Ponds                                 46.983       82.796       102.506        39.371        18.540        27.501       27.183        27.225        27.269        27.315       27.365        27.420        27.478         5.385
Cash  errplos (Deficit)                                       -           1.794       13.652        29.213        44.736        34.397       38.618        28.816        13.326        (4.649)      (11.535)     (17.986)      (25.691)       (4.440)
Cesalatie Cabh SLoplos                                       -           1.794       15.446        44.659        89.395       123,792      162.410       091.226       2843552       199.903       180.368      170.382       144.691       140.251
1/  Theee-f.Orthb  of 1% per anone on undi-bur.ad bhtooce.
2/  Aeumiog 14 yP-s Ios  inrlodiog 5  years of grace, 8k7. Erteroot on ootstsndlg bolanca.
'.o
ef        \,



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DR7RLOPMENT PROJECT
FinancIal  Rates of Return en  Total Incremental Investment (General)
se                                                       U~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ith-t  -------------------------------------------------------__-________________ a--- - ------------------------------ --------------------------------------------
6 lod-l                                                              Pr-j-et         1         2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9         10         11         12         13        14         15         16-19         20
1.  Ilaetra-ed  Ce=nnnt/Beef Cattle Fottecing - 5 ha.
Sales                                                              3.56         3.56     4.25    16.85    19.60    20.07    20.54    21.02    21.49    21.96           21.96     21.96      21.96      21.96      21.96      21.96      21.96        33.961'
Operating Erpea.e.                                                 0.73         0.73      1.12    10.44    11.71    11.80    11.90    11.99    12.09    12.19          12.19      12.19     12.19      12.19      12.19      12.19      12.19        12.19
Invest- ent                                                         -           7.80    11.39      6.28       -        -         -        -         -         -          -          -         _-                    -          - 
IntrIeate1 Financial Balaner                                        -          (7.80)  (11.09)   (2.70)    5.06       5.44      5.81     6.20      6.57      6.94       6.94      6.94       6.94       6.94       6.94      6.94        6.94        18.94
Fi Rni I.St ofRte- 227.
2.  Integrated Coeonct/Beef Cattle  Breediag/Fattstnoi   - 20 ha.
Smlen                                                             19.00        19.00    22.80    31.08    53.12    59.14    58.34    62.72    62.72    62.72           64.72     62.72      62.72      62.72      62.72      64.72      62.72       117.962/
Operating Eapenasa                                                 4.43         4.43     5.94      6.76    21.25    25.53    23.55    23.55    23.55    23.55          26.70      23.55     23.55      23.55      23.55      26.70      23.55        23.55
Investment                                                          -         49.22    49.40    21.49         .        -         -        -         -         .          -          .         -          -          -          -
I-trereetal Fi-nial Balance                                        -         (49.22)  (47.11)  (11.74)   17.30    19.04    20.22    24.60    24.60    24.60          22.95      24.60      24.60      24.60      24.60     22.95       24.60        79.86
FinancIal Oats of Return = 167,
3.  Iategratad Cn.nant/DBiry/Beef Cattle . 10 ha
Sales                                                              9.50         9.50    23.58    39.06    46.51    49.16           52.50    53.70    53.70    53.70     53.70     53.70     53.70      53.70      53.70      5370       53.70        82.761
Operating Rrpenses                                                 2.22         2.22     3.32    20.97    22.27    22.76    23.71    23.71    23.71    23.71           23.71     23.71      23.71      23.71      23.71      23.71      23.71        23.71
Inventaent                                                           -        45.46    38.90                           -                            -
Inr=atal Financial Balance                                           _       (45.46)  (25.92)   10.61    16.96    19.12    21.51    22.71    22.71    22.71            22.71     22.71      22.71      22.71      22.71     22.71       22.71        51.79
Floaneial RSte of Retnrc = 237,
4. Beekyard Cattle BOeedia/Fattenie-
Salee                                                                _            -       4.93      4.93    4.93      4.93      4.93     4.93      4.93      4.93       6.13      4.93       4.93       4.93       4.93      4.93        4.13        12.93
Opercti.g uxpen es                                                                       3.56      3.56      2.56     3.68      3.68      3.70     3.83      2.85       3.35       1.85      1.85       1.85       1.85       1.85       1.05         1.85
Iav-e t-,nt                                                                     5.3         - .       
Intreaaent3  Pinaaetel Balante                                       -         (5.31)    1.37      1.37     2.37      1.25      1.25     1.23      1.10      2.08       2.78      3.08       3.08       3.08       3.08      3.08        3.08        11.08
Financiel Bats ef Retarn = 32%
5.  0111 Beef Cattle F.c   - 400 ha.
Salas                                                             20.02        28.02    28.62    44.20    53.28    67.14    66.36    66.36    66.36    66.36           66.36      66.36     66.36      66.36      66.36     66.36       66.36       134.301'
Operating RBpena.a                                                03.11        13.11    11.24    1.553    15.53    22.18    22.18    18 88    18 88    18 88           18 80      18.88      18 88     18 88      18088      18088      18 88        10 88
Invest-nt                                                            .         65.20    62.36    10.94    12.79        .         -         .        .         -          .--                             .. 
lncranntal Fin-nel..   S Blnca                                       -        (65.20)  (59.89)    2.90    10.05    30.05    29.27    32.57    32.57    32.57           32.57      32.37      32.57     32.57      32.57      32.57      32.57       100.51
Financial RBae of Herone = 187.
6.  E.. Pradactiac - IEc-easena i Hn Ca-acit  fe-n 2000 to 6000 Birda
Sales                                                            153.08       154.12   312.29   459.58   459.58   459.58   459.58   459.58   459.58   459.58    482.116/
Operating Expenses                                               128.31       120.31   240.56   387.52   387.52   387.52   387 52   387.52   387.52   387.52    387.52
Invsere.enr                                     -        ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~         ~ ~ ~         ~ ~       ~~103.88    77.11  -  -  -  -  -   . - 
Iacre atal Financial Balante                                        -        (102.84)  (30.15)   47.29    47.29    47.29    47.29    47.29    47.29    47.29           67.79
Pinene. al aRte of Retire = 25%
7.  Broiler Predoctien Increasing  Br-iler  Cpaaeity fron 4000 to 8000 llrde
BaBes                                                            167.81       302.05   335.61   335.61   335.61   335.61   335.61   335.61   335.61   335.61    335.61
Opereting  Bepanana                                              147.32       238.60   295.86   295.86   295.86   295.86   295.86   295.86   295.86   295.86    295.86
Icreerseent                                                         -         83.08        -           -               -         -         -        -         -
Inrrem Intal Financial Balance                                      -         (40.12)   19.26    19.26    19.26    19.26    19.26    19.26    19.26    19.26           19.26
FiLe.cial BR teof Retre =   467.
8.  Pig  Breedtng/FpttsninM Increa1 i-g Herd fren 20 te 40 DSe
Sales                                                            132.60       135.80   235.30   265.00   265.80   265.80   265.80   265.80   265.80   265.80    265.802'  265.80    265.80    265.80    265.80    265.80               265.80       328.04!!
Operating Expenses                                               113.90       115.40   200.60   229.50   229.50   229.50   229.50   229.50   229.50   229.50    229 50    229.50    229.50    229.50    229.50    229.50               229.50       229.50
Inv-atn-t                                                           -          94.82    22.83       -         -        -         -         .        -         .          --                   .  
Incresiantal Fia-aeial Balante                                      .         (93.12)   (6.83)   27.60    27.60    27.60    27.60    27.60    27.60    27.60           27.60      27.60     27.60      27.60     27.60      27.60       27.60        89.84
Finan= ial RBte of  Retr  = 23%
9. Pravintial Slaaohterhuenss - Daily Canoelty 20 Caitle/Coraaoe/100 Fogs
Balsa                                                               _         600.04   665.00   723.02   781.04   840.12   899.20   959.34 1,019.48 1,079.62  1,139.76  1,139.76  1,139.76  1,139.76  1,139.76  1,139.76   1,159.76    1,130.76
Operating  Expenses                                                 -         520,42   565.66   596.09   633.22   675.39   709.86   747.17   784.59   018.80    853.73    853.73    853.73    655.73    853.75    053.75               853.753       53.73
I~~~~gaeaa                                       -       t.i3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 5.:60  .                                    -  -                                 -          .         -7
In-re-.ntal Finenelal Bel.n.e                                       _     (1,075 39)   99.34   126.93   147.82   164.73   189.34   212.17   234.89   260.82    286.03    286.03    286.03    206.03    286.03    286.03               286.03       286.03
1/   Includes c-im,ative iersentil herd coas. of t12,000.
2/  Ineiadee cr al tive i-cre-ental herd value af t55,260.
i3 Iaeledas  -uelatir- i-ntrenral herd value of f29.080.
4/  Incladee c=uletive innre1eental herd value af 10,000.
5/  Includes auslalive iacreaenrnl herd ralue of 16.,940.
1./ Bacladas tunlerive inrinsnnal flock nolue of 922,530.
7/ ntldee roatlaiCe   ninrnana   herd value of 162.240.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Returns to Producers
a
Backyard
Pig Breeding/1/   Poultry/   Poultry/   Hill Beef   Coconut/Beef            Coconut/Beef         Coconut       Cattle Breeding       Provincial
Fattening        Broilers    Layers         Cattle       Fattening    Breeding/Fattening   Dairy/Beef           Fattening       Slaughterhouses
(5ha)             (20ha)                                               La
Investment Costs (US$)                           7,800           11,080      24,130       20,170          3,400           16,010               11,250             710              154,700
Net Income (US$)
(i)  At present           2/                   1,250            2,730       3,300        1,990            380            1,940                  970              -                  -
(ii)  At full development-                      3,090            5,300       9,610        6,330          1,300            5,220                4,000             410               38,150
(iii)  Increment                                 1,840             2,570       6,310       4,340            920            3,280                3,030             410               38,150
Financial Rate of Return on
Incremental Investment                              23%               462         25%         18!            22%               16%/                 23%            32%                  17%
Debt Service (US$)                               1,960             2,430       5,280       4,420            825            3,140                2,460             155              28,110
Increment After Debt Service (US$)
(i)  At constant prices                          (120)              140      1,020         (550)            95              140                  570             255              10,040
(ii)  At current pricesl/                           34             1,930       6,170       5,608          1,160            2,770                3,830             385              51,213
4/
Increment After Debt is Repayed (US$)-
(i)  At constant prices                         1,840            2,570        6,310      4,340             920            3,280                3,030             410              38,150
(ii)  At current prices-/                        2,131            4,670      12,254       9,869           2,059            7,350                6,740             915              84,893
1/  Investment in 10 sow unit (i.e. half model in Annex 7 which is for I boar unit of 20 sows).
2/ Full development varies from Year 2 to Year 9.
3/ Sales and operating expenses inflated at expected rates of: 1976-10%, 1977/80-8%, 1981 onwards-7%. Figures are for the last year of repayment, varying between Years 7 and 10.
4/ Figures are for first year after debt is repaid, varying from Year 8 to Year 11.
r1 r



ANNEX 22
PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Adjustments to the Financial Balance
1.        Calculations of the amount of taxes and import duties and labor
costs to be withdrawn from the project costs have been carried out on the
following basis:
Import Duties (all ad valorem)
(a) Equipment for slaughterhouses: 10 to 50% according to
)           items on the foreign exchange component.
(b) Technical services and administration: 70% on assembled
motorcycles, 100% on assembled field vehicles.
(c) fertilizers: Average duty of 20%.
(d) Animal feed: 10% on imported inputs except yellow corn
which is free of duty. (Yellow corn represents about one
third of the value of imported raw materials in mixed
animal feed for pigs and poultry.)
(e)  Fuel, gas and oil:  there is a 20% duty but it is difficult
to isolate and its impact on the project balance is not sig-
pificant.
Internal Texes
2.        Fxcise taxes on fuel and gas have a negligible impact.  A 5% tax on
animal feed ex-manufacturer is the only substantial direct internal tax.
Labor
3.        Farm and unskilled slaughterhouse labor has been shadow-priced at
50% of its market value.



S n                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
9                                                                                                          OunrS-y Economic RtSe of Roturn Colcnlocioos
a                                                                                                                           (Million PEsos)
1       2        3          4          5         0          2~~~#~~~~~~~~~~~       ~ 6  9  00                    12        13         14    ~  ~13          56~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 17~~~~~~~ 50~~~~~~~ 19~~~L  20
Incre=eental lnFicoil Benefitr
Pig Breeding/Fattening                              0.800   26.715   67.797   112.535   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   123.210   023210   S00.782
Poultry:  BSoiler                                  10.740   20.164   38.930    41.949    41.949    41.949    41.949    41.949    41.949    41.949             -         -          -          -          -          -         -          -
Lay-r                                    0.053    0.0 14   23.339    30 .601    43. 923    45.972    43.975    45.975    40.973    49.353          -          -         ---                                                   --
oe: 0011Forms                            O.D5      0.02    0.348       0.033 5     .123     2.4    42.31L6        2.301      2 300 0293015        2 301       2.301    2.301      2.301      2 301      2 301      2.301     2.301      2.301      6.285
Ooco- ot/B!ef - 5 h.                         -      0.035    0.700      1.502      2.295     2.477      2.548      2.618      2.        2.9 2.236  2.760      2.260     2.760      2.760      20760      2.760      2.760     2.760      2.760     4.560
Co-onoBo of - 20 ho                          -      0.456    1.906      6.036    10.479    13.970    15.184    15.606    16.175    16.355    16.355    16 .355    1.355    16.355    16.355    16.355    16.355    16.355    16.355    36,801
C-...oct/Diry - 10 ha                               0.084    0.280      0.534      0.710     0.794      0.843      0.874     0.882      0.882      0.882      0.882     0.882      0.882      0.882      0.882     0.882      0.802      0.802      1.464
Small Sc-lo Beaf                            -       0.197    0.493      0.986      0.986     0.986      0.986      0.986     0.906      1.034      1.058      1.058     0.020      1.058      1.050      1.058      1.058     1.0058     1.058      2.658
Olooghterhoa.e.                                       _       2.432    6.308      6.882     7.462      8.046      8.638     9.232      9.834    10.435    11.037    11.398    11.398    11.398          1.398    1.398    11.398            8    11.398    11.398
Sb-totol                                       11.593   62.109  140.101   209.888   234.689   239.461   241.649   242.751   244.001   248.257   157.603   157.964   157.964   157.964   157.964   157.964   157.964   157.964   157.964   244.448
Io-re-eetal Operating C-tse
Labor                                               0.092    1.346    3.430       4.946     5.938      6.623      6.993     7.175      7.252      7.312      6.592     6.612      6.612      6.612      6.612     6.612      6.612      6.612      6.612     6.612
Feed                                                4.435   36.264   87.491   137.975   153.576   153.585   153.601   153.609   153.616   153.627    95.449    95.559    95.559    95.559    95.559    95.559    95.559    95.559    95.559    95.559
Ocher                                               3.150   112775   24.127    32.899    37.332    39.379    39.918    39.779    39.982    40.632    34.570    23.560    23.249    23.249    23.627    23.627    23.659    23.249    23.249    23.249
Sub-total                                        7.677   49.385  115.048   175.820   196.846   199.587   200.512   200.563   200.850   201.571   136.721   125.731   125.420   125.420   125.798   125.798   125.830   125.420   125.420   12S,420
Pig Breeding/Patteniag                             23.704   36.523   40.606       7.991      -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -         -
Poohtr7 - Beoile-                                   6.647    6.647    7 477       3.85                        -               -
Layer                                    0.194    9.049    9.049       3.00        --85                                                            -          -         -          --                                               
Catle:  8111 er.a                                   1.304    2.551    2.770       1.722     0.475      0.256
Ceoon-t/1eef - 5 ho                       0.390    0.959    1.273       0.883      0.314
COoocnt/Blaf - 20 he                      5.907   11.033   14.904       8.999      2.793
Coconut/DLbry - 10 ha                     0.273    0.001    0.590       0.272       -         -          -          -          -         _          -          _                    _          _          _         _          _          -
Small  Scale "enf                         0.212    0.319    0.531        -
Sl-oghterheo.e.                                      _        6.108    9.282       -          _          _         _         -          _          -         _          _          _          -         _          _          _         _          _          _
Sub-tooal                                       43.631   73.076   84.166    23.722       3.582      0.256
Adeiiaatrlee.n Teohalcal Serolree. oulomear
and Reearol                                            3.280    3.010    2.840       1.030     0.440      0.440      0.440      0.440     0.440      0.440      0.440     0.440      0.440      0.440       -         -          -          -         -
Project Piocalol Balonce                            (42.995) (63.362) (61.953)    9.316    33.821    39.178    40.697    41.748    42.711    46.246    20.442    31.793    32.104    32.104    32.166    32.166    32.134    32.544    32.544   119.028
Adlirt.e..L  t0 Fi-ancial Balanc
Leb                                                 D.336    0.946    1.749       2.143     2.430      2.690      2.843      2.920     2.933      2.952      2.586     2.586      2.586      2.586      2.586     2.386      2.586      2.586 2.506          2.586
Ta...                                               2.062    6.714   11.885    13.999    14.120    13.880    13.881    13.881    13.882    13.882           8.831      8.831      8.831      8.831     8.831      8.831      8.831     8.831      8.831      8.931
Proeact E-enenia  BSIe-nce                           (40.597) (55.702) (48.319)   25.458    50.391    55.748    57.421    58.549    59.526    63.080    31.859    43.210    43.521    43.521    43.583    43.583    43.551    43.961    43.961   130.445
1/ E-eldi.g feed qoality aontrol lahoobtooy.



IBRD 11869
118.                               lo-                                  1.22                                124'                                I25 SEPTEMBER 1975
PHILI PPINES
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
YGE1OGRAPHICAL. '                                                      9 SECOND  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT
1. CITY Of MANI         VR. WESTERN VISAYAS                            |                                                PRO JEC T                                                la-
35. Akl.,                                         ---------
tl.lL3tCOS                36. Atoue                              _        .               Son Vicente
t. Abro                  37  Ilodo                                              A
2. lemtonre 3N. rP'                                                            Apai                                             Primary  Highways
3. looe Sos              39  Negro, O-de-1              Lao92  *                                                                Railways
La LeUnWo,               40  Ron-bion                         c3Rl
E.       ftSo1inr'                                                              )                                            Principal Ports
E. EO"t              YVI4. EASTERN VISAYAS
7. KIopo                 41. Sebhu                                1       8                                            +Togego  Trunk Line Airports
S. K.Il5li. AEeyeO       42. Csb. ,goa
IS. CAOA     VALLEY           43  No,th- LeJ ---                                                                                  - District  Boundaries
Nti. CAGAYAN VALLEY          44. South r Lrybb.                          .  
19.   ~ ~           4. SEothe.. S...-~..    Regional  Boundari'es
1aC910                    4E. Negrot O,i-1n3rie
II. 4eoSolew  t                                                                                                    -,  . -.t    International Boundaries
f2. Nutn vSi-ve           4   North.r So...,                             7
48. Wmetern SenIrt
JV.CENTRALLUZON                                        San  41
te6  t3. est3in             IX. NORTHERN & EASTERN   Fernon               e
f4.  Stoer                MINDANAO                    Sla      1extf   12              1
W5. h4-0 ESiO             49. Ag-een del Norle       TtonS         J         
toi. Pesneog              53. BSk,dnon                                   '
17. I'es"'ni              51. Leno del None     Bugalon        gpa 
15  Tatgp                 52. L.oco del u 1           Son J#
1.Zettfibel             53. Misanso Oco.ide,neel.
54. Miterso Oriental          C 1                                                               5       0        0      1
V. SOUTHERN TAGALOG         5d  SotiOgo dor No-            To c         c        000 /  O/7/)   Nl                           bO   O_       _ _ _
2IL  Beteitge              55   ooedlSr-'  Lu   ' '"  A/'                                                                                  KILOMETERS
31. Cetite56S...d1 r
22. LOW..                 57. Agusan del S.,           19 9
23. MErendegee            sa. cenigoin                     '16         141
24. terodorKlo,odentel                          Olongop             S  Fernatdo
2S. MindsssO iietal     X. SOUTHERN & WESTERN              3               8 27
20. hbta-e                MINDANAO                         13MANIL         051
27.  0-ezon               59. Coteetot
39.20  tEte                   60, D-o del None                    Co   lfi                                                                                                         140.
1 l5  Zam-basn del Norn         Togoytoy  I           Sb  Cruz         Jose Ponganiban                            oclf/c
.V}.slCOL                    E2. Z-mboange de1 So,         Nosugbsi     .           '                       'nl-n
29. Afsre                 SS. solo                           -0 S                 '            gO
30. Ceenein  None         64. SWoh oast
24" C.-nne,E.,            64. S.tho Caat.                                                  Intn  3la Cruz                  aspiOcean
s2. Ceoteetete            45. D-oe dl Sor                                                                     Nogo City
34. Sonrsigon                                                            Ct   n             CU                             c
MINDORO  24--
South, China                                                                        00Odigogon                                  S
a      Son Jos             /40                              Msbat              4     -
PAeo NA , J Y   Mmsssr3  \c bt'g`AMA R .    Ize
ACulion                                              MA        AT       \Cn Ccbal,og
PAZAWA/V   *ertoPrincesa  ~~~~~~~~~~~~PA AY ERO 38                                                                         bwOuZ9
Son     ~                ~  Jos
b__wn54                      /                   'To     -- b  -
.e Sue/uit               o oilo2
A,,f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  Js                                              36    N '   Ca  z          t        0  7
26                                                                                 2    CE
PA   WA N                                                                                                r     su                    _ '
_p    2thunun!otsowontbrO*esto Pnieceso                   N EGRO             2      5      4    /        1''    (    iS          8;               eoo
l,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alo' . --                                                                           ba(s r' it   )
Su/u  Sea                                                   Doaitan
o S di or,                                   44/INDA  NA  0  ---- -'
dMeO  to0oenooot oa o    by de                                                                                                     5 2
Wo,Jdiltoeboandeye,sStdlatoo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      oraat
C H I N  A            T A_I
'~~~~'~~~~".'~~~~~~ ~Zoenboongo                                          ,
... w7. Cees  nea  n
'N        China             LIPPINES                                                         -
"-"'>0   1                                                                J0jGi6ii 63
Celebes Sea
MRALAY$rSAI         k
INDONEiA/v0                                                                        2                                 1740                                E6



