Report No. PID11486
Project Name                     KOSOVO-Education Participation Improvement Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           General education sector (100%)
Project ID                       P079260
Borrower(s)                      UNMIK
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministry of Education, Science & Technology
Address: Mother Tereza Street, Eximkos Building,
Room 406
Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Alexis De Roquefeuil
Tel: +377 (44) 207 781
Email: deroqefeuil@un.org
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 4, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              December 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date               May 13, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
In Kosovo, prior to the 1998-1999 conflicts, around 90 percent of the
total population of 1.8 to 2.1 million people (the last Census was carried
out in 1991) were Albanians. During the 1990s, this section of the
population had no official education services in the Albanian language.
From 1989 the official language of the formal education system was
Serbian.  The Albanians were forced to resort to an unofficial education
system at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels.    The unofficial
system was in parallel to the official system, and became known as the
"parallel system." Running a parallel system based on informal financing
and makeshift physical arrangements showed that students, teachers and the
whole Albanian ethnic community are strongly committed to education.
During the period of intensified conflict education provision was severely
curtailed in the affected areas. During the NATO Campaign education
services were by and large suspended. Following the conflict, some
100,000 Kosovo Serbs left the province. The international community was
left to rebuild the public sector, including education. In 2001,
elections were held for Kosovo province. An Assembly was created, and
new Provisional Institutions of Self-Government (PISG) of Kosovo were
established. The new authority had a mandate, together with the
international community, to establish its own public administration and
run its public services.
In its effort to rebuild education, the newly established provisional
government in Kosovo and international authorities face a number of
challenges including rebuilding a system of education administration and
finance, ensuring education for all children, reforming curriculum, and
rebuilding education infrastructure. The World Bank has been heavily



involved over the past three years in helping the United Nations Interim
Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK), and Kosovar authorities to establish a
new education governance and financing system. Efforts have been directed
towards decentralizing authority and funding to Kosovo's 30
municipalities. Recently the Bank has also assisted international and
Kosovar authorities to begin defining sector priorities and a medium-term
strategy, by preparing a medium term expenditure study that makes
recommendations for improving effectiveness and efficiency, and ensuing
fiscal sustainability in the education system (reports are available upon
request) . A summary of key sector issues relevant to the project is
provided below.
Education Administration
Education administration, like the rest of public administration, is in
transition. As of September 2002, responsibility for provision of
education has been transferred to the PISG Ministry of Education, Science
and Technology (MEST), with UNMIK officials playing a supportive,
capacity-building role. The education governance and funding system
created by UNMIK with World Bank support provides the framework for the
devolution of about 80 percent of the education resources to
municipalities on the basis of a per student funding formula. Local
authorities are responsible for budgeting, expenditure control, and
personnel management for teachers, school directors, and non-teaching
staff, while the MEST focuses on monitoring performance and targeted
development programs. In 2002, under the Ministry sponsorship, a Handbook
on Municipal Education Governance and a Kosovo School Funding Handbook
were issued, describing the role of the different level of administration
agencies and the procedures of formula-based financing. International
donors need to continue building adequate legal and institutional
planning, monitoring and management capacities at central and local
levels, the objective being to help focus on effective service delivery,
education quality, the efficient use of public resources, as well as to
promote equity in access and attainment.
Education Expenditures
Government spending on education was 3.7 percent of the per capita GDP in
2001, one of the lowest in the Central and Eastern European region.
Education is clearly under-funded considering that the student age share
of the population is the highest in Europe. In EU, average spending is
about 5.3 percent of the per capita GDP. In Kosovo's consolidated
recurrent budget education is by far the largest category with 19.8
percent of the total. Personnel expenditure accounts for about 70 percent
of the budget. The Kosovo Poverty Assessment of 2001 shows that public
expenditures are regressive given the strong correlation between poverty
and utilization of education services particularly at secondary level. By
and large, efficiency indicators are comparable to European averages with
a 19:1 pupil-teacher ratio at both primary and secondary levels, and with
minimal administrative overhead in 2001. (more on public expenditures in
Annex 4.)
While on average public unit costs for primary school education were
around 120EUROs, household expenditures (including out-of-pocket
contributions, travel, clothing, etc.) were almost the same level at
-2 -



nearly lOQEUROs. For school secondary education public unit costs were
140EUROs whereas household expenditures were as much as 200EUROs per
student. Although the per capita funding introduced this year may help to
alleviate inequities in funding, the government should consider providing
some funding to compensate for some of the expenses especially for the
poorest households, or find alternatives to provide targeted support for
them.
Literacy, Educational Enrollment, Attainment and Completion
The lack of access to formal education during the 1990s resulted in an
increase in illiteracy (15 to 22 percent) among the 16 to 25 year olds.
Given the present high level of enrollment in primary education,
illiteracy is expected to drop down to below 5 percent. Also, during the
1990s, average educational attainment (number of years in school
completed) fell significantly for the non-Serb population. Inequalities
in educational attainment still persist between ethnic groups, by gender,
by poverty and by the urban-rural divide.
Although official information is lacking, the Poverty Assessment of
2001--based on a household survey carried out during the 1999/2000
academic year--indicated that there are gaps both in access, in completion
and in attainment at primary and secondary education. Aggregate data show
relatively high levels of enrollment in primary education, although if
disaggregated, there are differences among ethnic groups with respect to
attendance and completion. At the primary level, gross enrollment during
the 1999/2000 school year was 97 percent. It is likely that many
over-aged children were then enrolled as they missed many years of
education during the 1990s. If this is the case, it also means that
children who are supposed to be enrolled now are not in the school system.
(A rapid social assessment based on an empirical survey and secondary
analysis of the LSMS data has been carried out and will be finalized by
appraisal.)
Further, the Living Standard Measurement Survey showed significant
problems with completion of primary education, one of the cornerstones for
achieving the Millenium Development Goals and to establish a basic human
capital if the province is to succeed in becoming competitive in the
medium term. The survey showed that as many as 11 percent of children age
14 are not in school, meaning that is highly unlikely that these children
will ever complete primary education. Among girls, close to 10 percent of
the 13 year olds and 17 percent of the 14 year olds are not in school.
The LSMS data also provides information on completion and confirms that a
large portion of different age cohorts do not complete 8 years of primary
education:
Table. Primary Education Completion by
age cohort by gender and geographical location
Source: Kosovo Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS).
As the data shows, roughly 10 to 12 percent of the different age groups
from age 16 do not complete primary education and this average is about 2
- 3-



to 10 percent worse for those living in rural areas and for girls. For
rural girls, the completion rate typically does not reach 90 percent.
Among those, who are out of school 29 percent suggested it was too
expensive, 20 percent found little interest in school and 17 percent
referred in 1999 to safety reasons. However, the issue of safety was
significant largely among those living in urban areas. This also coincides
with the children coming from extreme poverty. These are also
predominantly Roma children. Among the poor, the most critical reasons are
the out-of-pocket costs, the lack of interest and the need to participate
in agricultural labor. It is also noteworthy that while out-of-pocket
payment is the dominant reason among boys, among girls the most important
reasons for not being in school were the lack of interest and security
issues.
The lowering of the minimum entry age from 7 to 6 years was implemented
from academic year 2001. To add to the challenge, as of September 2002,
compulsory primary education has been extended to 9 years (instead of the
previous 8 years). As a result secondary education has been reduced by one
year. The introduction of 9 years of compulsory primary level schooling
was carried out without adequate planning of the physical and human
capacities necessary, and without adequate curriculum planning (including
textbooks, training, etc.). In some parts of Kosovo the 9th grade
schooling is being provided in designated secondary schools and,
especially in rural areas, a significant portion of the students do not
have access to it, given the relatively large distance from secondary
schools.
At secondary level, the overall enrollment rate is low and there are
significant gaps in enrollment among girls, children from rural areas,
children from poor families as well as children from some ethnic groups.
Gross enrollment data reveal enrollment rates of 74 percent of Albanian
boys as opposed to 56 percent of Albanian girls; 78 percent of children
from urban areas as opposed to 59 percent from rural communities; and 36
(rural) percent to 62 (urban) percent of those coming from the lowest
expenditure decile as opposed to 76 (rural) percent to 89 (urban) percent
of those coming from the highest expenditure decile. Key factors are
transition from primary to secondary education, choice of secondary
education tracks and successful completion of secondary programs. The key
reasons include: high out-of-pocket payments (as discussed earlier),
security problems and distance to school, plus the lack of incentives and
sufficient attention to local level issues relating to enrollment,
attendance and completion.
Educational content, curriculum, teaching and learning standards
As a first step, establishing adequate content for education (guided by
international donors) was a mixture of formalizing the previous parallel
education system for the Albanians and some minorities, and establishing
new standards and assessment procedures with support from international
organizations in curriculum, textbooks, teaching standards and
examinations.
So far, neither the Government nor the lead donor agencies have worked on
quality standards in terms of the content, the output and outcomes of
-4 -



public education. The first steps have been made by the lead donor
agencies who have been assigned responsibility for various inputs and
levels of education, including UNICEF for curriculum development and
pre-school education, the Government of Canada for teacher development,
the German Government for secondary technical/vocational, the Finnish
Government for special education, the World Bank for assessments and
management. In this context, the Canadians have worked with the Government
to define quality performance standards for teachers, the German support
via GTZ helped define new structure for vocational education, the Finnish
Government helped define quality objectives for special education and the
World Bank's support for the Standards and Assessment Unit is expected to
establish the basic capacities for testing and quality assessments.     For
a complete list of donor agencies and areas of support please refer
Section D, sub-section 2.
Reforms have progressed especially in teacher training and in curriculum
matters for early primary grades, thanks to support from the Canadian
Government, from the Soros Foundation, and UNICEF. Meanwhile, reform of
secondary education has not been started. Enrollment at secondary level is
one of the lowest in Europe. Curriculum is teacher-centered. Supplies of
materials, equipment and training are severely limited. Vocational
programs are targeted towards narrow specializations. Vocational
secondary education is not aimed at broad competencies, those that give
young people the types of flexible skills that will be needed in Kosovo's
dynamic, informal job market.
School Infrastructure and Rehabilitation
As in most countries in the Balkans, many schools are organized into
clusters under one administration with one central school providing
education for 8 grades linked to satellite schools providing education for
the first 4 grades. In many areas the recently introduced ninth grade
classes at primary level are being provided in separate institutions. Of
the 961 registered schools in 2001, 554 were central schools. At secondary
level, out of the 147 schools, 110 were central schools. Primary schools
had about 322 pupils on average whereas secondary schools had about 638
pupils.
Reports indicate significant deterioration prior to the conflict and
destruction of school infrastructure during the conflict. Between
1999-2001, about one fourth of the schools were rehabilitated with donor
assistance, including the Japanese and Swiss Governments, as well as by
the Islamic Development Bank. However, donor funding has seriously
declined over the last two years and is expected to further decline in the
near future. Meanwhile, the fast growing student population and the status
quo of the education infrastructure suggest that in the near future,
Kosovo will have increasingly overcrowded schools.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to improve children's access and
educational attainment at primary and secondary education levels.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's experience with school grants particularly in the South East
European region provides a unique opportunity to adjust the project design
based on lessons, which have been learned elsewhere. The Bank's ongoing
role in supporting education financing and administration reform in Kosovo
- 5 -



will also help make the project objectives an integral part of the policy
agenda.
4. Description
The Project is expected to have three components, a school development
grant component will provide funding to schools to achieve improvement of
access and education attainment, a management information systems (EMIS)
component will help strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the
current EMIS, and a project management component will support
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the project. Summaries are
provided below, and detailed descriptions are provided in Annex 2.
a) School Development Grants (SDG): The objective of the SDG component is
to provide funding to schools to help increase enrollment, attendance, and
retention in primary and secondary education. Through the SDG process,
approximately US$3.38 million in grant funding will be awarded in targeted
small grant contracts to approximately 50t of the 550 primary schools and
110 secondary schools in Kosovo's 30 municipalities. Primary schools will
be eligible for grants up to 10,000 USD and secondary schools will be
eligible for grants up to 15,000 USD. The grants will be awarded on the
basis of school development plans and grant proposals, which will be
evaluated by municipal level School Grant Management Teams (SGMTs)and
approved by a central School Grants Approval Board. All schools selected
for the program will receive technical assistance and training in the
areas of school development planning and proposal writing. Schools will
be selected for the program by municipal education officials on the basis
of documented access and retention problems in the school's catchment
area. Selection criteria will focus largely on enrollment, drop out, and
attendance statistics. Grant proposals, prepared by the selected schools,
will be evaluated by the MEST on the basis of how effectively they address
access and retention problems. The grants will finance training,
community outreach activities, educational materials and school supplies,
and some small works aimed at improving security and the educational
environment.
b). Improving the Education Management Information System: The objective
of this component is to help strengthen and ensure the sustainability of
the EMIS, which was designed and began implementation under the ongoing
Education and Health Project. More specifically, the EMIS will help
monitor enrollment, attendance, repetition, dropout and completion, as
well as try to account for children in the targeted municipalities, who
are not participating in the school system. The project will finance local
and international technical assistance, external training, and limited
equipment and furniture of central level and municipal offices.
c). Project management: The objective of this component is the effective
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project. The
Project Management Unit (PMU) that has been established under the ongoing
Kosovo Health and Education Project will assume administration and
implementation responsibilities for the proposed project. The PMU will
report to the Principal International Officer (PIO, UNMIK) and the
Minister for Education, Science and Technology (MEST). In addition to
supporting project implementation in cooperation with UNMIK authorities
responsible for financial management and procurement, the PMU will be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation of results under the school
- 6 -



development grants component.
1. School Planning and School Development Grants
2. Education Management Information System
3. Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $0.10
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT $4.50
Total Project Cost $4.60
6. Implementation
The project implementation arrangements established under the Education
and Health Project are expected to continue under the Education
Participation Project. A project manager and a small logistical staff are
in place in the Ministry of Education and Science, and their contracts
will be extended under the upcoming project. Project financial management
will continue to be handled by an international financial manager and two
assistants located in the MFE.    The MFE will be responsible for the
financial management and reporting requirements of the project. The MFE
has in place a financial management system that is capable of producing
project management reports as required by the Bank. This system has
already been utilized for other Bank funded projects. A qualified
financial management specialist was hired under an on going Bank financed
Grant, whose primary responsibility are to monitor and prepare project
management reports for all bank projects. As part of its
responsibilities, the MFE will be responsible for opening and maintaining
the project's Special Account, as it has done for several other Bank
projects. Relations between the MFE and the MEST have been exemplary
under the ongoing project.
A special account for the Bank Grant will be opened in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. All payments will be done by the MFE. All
contracts will be concluded by the central procurement authority of the
UNMIK. The PIU established at the MEST will prepare all the relevant
documents and obtain the required clearances and coordinate very closely
with the MFE. There are no counterpart contributions to the project.
Procurement for both goods and services under the upcoming project is
expected to be limited to firm contracts below $100,000 and individual
contracts below $50,000. As in the ongoing project, all procurement will
be coordinated by the Project Manager in cooperation with the central
UNMIK procurement office. Community-based procurement procedures are
included in the School Grants Manual for the school grants which will be
implemented by school authorities. The procedures, as well as the entire
Manual, were reviewed at appraisal and found to be satisfactory.
a) School Development Grants:
The school grant process will position the schools and the local
communities in the center of the implementation process. Schools will
engage in development planning and development of grant proposals, which
targets improvements in access, attendance and completion. School
-7 -



management and the school boards in the selected schools will be expected
to take a key role in defining the school development plans. These plans
will define benchmarks in terms of student numbers, retention, completion,
performance and use of resources to achieve these benchmarks. The
selection will be done in consultation with municipal authorities (more
details are provided in Annex 2).
Under the ongoing Education and Health Project (EHP) a pilot of the school
grants process is currently being carried out. The EHP finances a small
contract (about $20,000) with a local NGO, the Kosovo Education Center
(KEC). Moreover, an agreement has been reached between the Kosovo Open
Society Foundation (KFOS) and the Bank on a joint financing of the
contract with KEC for the school grant component. A total budget for
technical assistance and outreach is estimated at about $300,000. It is
planned that KFOS will provide about $100,000 (mainly for fees) and the
remaining $200,000, mainly for local training, will be financed from the
IDA Grant. The terms of reference will be jointly agreed by IDA and KFOS
and both donors will disburse the funds through separate contracts with
KEC based on the agreed terms of reference. Thus, a sole source contract
with KEC in the amount of $200,000 for IDA funding is proposed for this
partnership.
Details and procedures for selection of schools, submission and evaluation
of grant proposals, monitoring and supervision of the grants
implementation, etc. are given in Annex 2 and are included in the School
Grants Manual. The Manual will be finalized for the project by signature
of the IDA Grant.
b) Education Information Systems: Development of an EMIS which was started
under the ongoing project will be continued under the Education
Participation Project. The objective will be to ensure that the new MEST
is able to monitor systemic performance in the areas of access and
retention. Financing will be focused to ensure the sustainability of the
EMIS. This will be done through capacity building of internal MEST (which
is constrained by the inability of public services to pay and retain
qualified staff), and possibly by outsourcing technical information
services to a local contractor.
5. Financial Management
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was
undertaken in October 2002 to determine whether the financial management
arrangements within the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE) are
acceptable to the Bank. The MFE has a financial system in place, that is
being used for other Bank financed grants. This system is capable of
providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures, including planning, procurement accounting and financial
reporting. During appraisal, the project statement of accounts will be
incorporated into the chart of accounts of the MFE. Once this is
completed, the financial management (FM) assessment will be revised to
conclude that the project meets the Bank's minimum FM requirements
Financial Reporting. The MFE will ensure the preparation and distribution
of consolidated periodic progress reports to the relevant UNMIK
institutions, including the IDA, to reflect: (i) sources and uses of
funds, by component and activity; (ii) project progress; and (iii)
- 8-



procurement activities. In this context, the MFE will prepare quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be submitted to the IDA
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will
be submitted at the end of the first quarter after Project effectiveness.
Audit Arrangements. The MFE, would be responsible for ensuring that the
Project financial statement, Special Accounts (SA), and Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to
the IDA in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The
MFE will maintain responsibility for the management of project funds and
the Special Account. They will monitor and keep track of the use of funds.
The audit will cover all funds related to the project, including
counterpart funds, for all project components. The MFE will carry out the
annual audit in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the IDA. The audited financial
statements, the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year
will be sent to the IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the IDA Grant will be made based on
traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Account with
reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). The proceeds
of the IDA Grant will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6.
To facilitate timely project implementation, the MFE will establish,
maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The option to move to a FMR based disbursements
will not be considered for this operation.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing under the EPIP to a maximum amount of $60,000 for
school grants will be made to the MFE in accordance with Bank/IDA policy.
7. Sustainability
As Kosovo's education system is being decentralized, the roles and
responsibilities of municipal authorities and school authorities increase.
Schools are having increasing responsibility to work effectively: reach
out to all eligible children, make sure pupils attend and complete
successfully their education. Municipalities have increasing
responsibility to make sure access is provided equally to all, financing
of schools is adequate in that it also assures non-recurrent expenditures.
In that sense, the school grant component helps to improve these
management and planning capacities, tests a feasible form of incentive to
schools to effectively manage service delivery and also tests a transfer
mechanism to cover some recurrent expenditures financing equipment and
materials, training and small capital improvements. Municipal and school
leaders will develop the capacity to plan and deliver small scale
development projects, and the central government will establish capacity
to carry out project management and evaluation, as well as introduce
incentives for improved effectiveness and development.
The school grants will support the strengthening of school level
management, the broadening of school level authority, local community and
municipal capacities to make sure all children are enrolled, attend
school, complete primary education and, preferably, transfer to secondary
-9-



education. The capacity building and increased authorizing environment
will help sustain the local institutional basis for improving the
effectiveness of schools in the targeted areas of access and attainment.
To the extent the grants help to achieve the stated objectives of the
school grants component, and demonstrate the need for targeting resources
to the poorest populations, the government may consider financing this
type of activity beyond the project's lifetime. The school grant mechanism
may be continued to support the project's original objectives, but could
also be used in the future to directly target quality improvements in the
system. However, the scope of future need for Government or donor
financed school development grants aimed at improving access and
attainment cannot be judged at this point. Governments in the region and
international donors frequently use school grants to support school based
initiatives and to stimulate efficient and effective service delivery.
Therefore, an effective implementation of the project may demonstrate the
usefulness of this mechanism to support future policy agendas and quality
improvements.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The first Education and Health Project in Kosovo helped to establish a
decentralized education administration system and a core Education
Management Information System. It helped to empower local authorities but
also showed that partnership is needed with schools to establish
incentives to achieve tangible education outcomes. The Bank has had a long
experience working with school grants in most regions including in ECA and
-- in particular -- in the Balkans. Project implementation arrangements
have been designed in view of the recent QAG review of the Kosovo Social
Protection Project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Peter Darvas
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 7580
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
- 10 -



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 14, 2003.
- 11 -



