Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25571
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IDA GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION (US$ 4.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
KOSOVO, SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
FOR
'EDUCATION PARTICIPATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 14, 2003
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 10, 2003)
Currency Unit = EURO
EURO 1.067 = US$1.00
US$1 = EURO 1.067
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDF          Community Development Fund
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPE          Central Procurement Entity
CQ           Consultant Qualification
DC           Direct Contracting
ECA          Europe and Central Asia
EMIS         Education Management Information System
EPIP         Education Participation Improvement Project
FMR          Financial Management Reporting
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GFMIS        Government Financial Management Information System
GPN          General Procurement Notice
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC           Individual Consultant
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IFAC         International Federation of Accountants
IS           International Shopping
ISA          International Standards on Auditing
KEC          Kosovo Education Center
KCB          Kosovo Consolidated Budget
KFOS         Kosovo Open Society Foundation
LCS           Least Cost Selection
LSMS         Living Standard Measurement Survey
MDG          Millenium Development Goal
MED          Municipal Education Director
MEST         Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
MFE           Ministry of Finance and Economy
MSGT         Municipal School Grant Team
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PIO          Principal International Officer
PISG         Provisional Institutions of Self-Government
PMU          Project Management Unit
POM          Project Operating Manual



cont......
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
REO          Regional Education Officer
SA           Special Account
SDP          School Development Plans
SGAB         School Grants Approval Board
SDG          School Development Grants
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SRSG         Special Representative of the Secretary-General
SS           Sole Source
STA          Single Treasury Account
UNICEF       United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UNMIK        United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:   Maureen McLaughlin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Peter Darvas






KOSOVO
EDUCATION PARTICIPATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              14
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership                                14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        15
3. Technical                                                                        16
4. Institutional                                                                    16
5. Environmental                                                                    18
6. Social                                                                           18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               19



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  20
2. Critical risks                                                                  20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  21
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         21
2. Other                                                                           21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  50
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 51
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                      61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         70
MAP(S)
IBRD 30432R



KOSOVO
Education Participation Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: April 14, 2003                               Team Leader: Peter Darvas
Sector Manager/Director: Maureen McLaughlin        Sector(s): General education sector (100%)
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos           Theme(s): Education for all (P)
Project ID: P079260
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
tProjet'Financing Data                                           -    -
] Loan     [ ] Credit   [XI Grant    [ ]Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.5
mianding Plan-(US$m)..:- -~ 7  r      .-Lbcal-.                             Foregn-        aTotil. 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                               0.00           0.10          0.10
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT                                      0.00           4.50          4.50
Total:                                                           0.00           4.60          4.60
Borrower/Recipient: UNMIK
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministry of Education, Science & Technology
Address: Mother Tereza Street, Eximkos Building, Room 802
or Student Center, Room 314
Prishtina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Avni Sahiti
Tel: 00 381 38 244 974           Fax: 00 381 38 244 975          Email: Asahiti-Wb@hotmail.Com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY     --004            6 .  j 1-  -                     -. --*2 016   - ' '  -
Annual      1.16       1.68       1.66
Cumulative      1.16      2.84       4.50
Project implementation period: 2003-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2003 Expected closing date: 12/31/2006



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed Project is to improve educational attainment at primary and secondary
education levels and to enhance access of vulnerable groups to education.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
o   Reduction of dropout rate in the targeted schools;
o   Improvement in the survival rate between grades and completion rate at primary level (currently nine
years) in the targeted schools;
o   Improved attendance rate in the targeted schools at primary level;
o   Improved net and gross enrollment rates to primary education in targeted non-Serb and non-Albanian
communities; and
o   Higher level transition to and attainment at secondary level especially by girls in the targeted
communities.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: No. 24275 - KOS  Date of latest CAS discussion: July 25, 2002
The Transitional Support Strategy emphasizes the importance of increasing enrollment rates in primary
and secondary education, and enhancing access of girls and vulnerable groups to education. The
proposed Education Participation Improvement Project (US$ 4.5 million) operationalizes the Transitional
Support Strategy with the explicit objective of improving access and attainment levels.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In Kosovo, prior to the 1998-1999 conflicts, around 90 percent of the total population of 1.8 to 2.1
million people (the last census was carried out in 1991) were Albanians. During the 1990s, this section
of the population had no official education services in the Albanian language. From 1989, the official
language of the formal education system was Serbian. The Albanians were forced to resort to an
unofficial education system at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. The unofficial system was in
parallel to the official system, and became known as the "parallel system." Running a parallel system
based on informal financing and makeshift physical arrangements showed that students, teachers and the
whole Albanian ethnic community are strongly committed to education.
During the period of intensified conflict education provision was severely curtailed in the affected areas.
During the NATO Campaign, education services were by and large suspended. Following the conflict,
some 100,000 Kosovo Serbs left the province. The intemational community was left to rebuild the
public sector, including education. In 2001, elections were held for Kosovo province. An Assembly was
created, and new Provisional Institutions of Self-Govermment (PISG) of Kosovo were established. The
new authority had a mandate, together with the international community, to establish its own public
administration and run its public services.
In its effort to rebuild education, the newly established provisional government in Kosovo and
intemational authorities face a number of challenges including rebuilding a system of education
administration and finance, ensuring education for all children, reforming curriculum, and rebuilding
education infrastructure. The World Bank has been heavily involved over the past three years in helping
the United Nations Intenm Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), and Kosovar authonties to
- 2 -



establish a new education governance and financing system. Efforts have been directed towards
decentralizing authority and funding to Kosovo's 30 municipalities. Recently, the Bank has also assisted
international and Kosovar authorities to begin defining sector priorities and a medium-term strategy, by
preparing a medium term expenditure study that makes recommendations for improving effectiveness
and efficiency, and ensuing fiscal sustainability in the education system (reports are available upon
request). A sumniary of key sector issues relevant to the project is provided below.
Education Administration
Education administration, like the rest of public administration, is in transition. As of September 2002,
responsibility for provision of education has been transferred to the PISG Ministry of Education, Science
and Technology (MEST), with UNMIK officials playing a supportive, capacity-building role. The
education governance and funding system created by UNMvIIK with World Bank support provides the
framework for the devolution of about 80 percent of the education resources to municipalities on the
basis of a per student funding formula. Local authorities are responsible for budgeting, expenditure
control, and personnel management for teachers, school directors, and non-teaching staff, while the
MEST focuses on monitoring performance and targeted development programs. In 2002, under the
Ministry sponsorship, a Handbook on Municipal Education Governance and a Kosovo School Funding
Handbook were issued, describing the role of the different level of administration agencies and the
procedures of formula-based financing. International donors need to continue building adequate legal
and institutional planning, monitoring and management capacities at central and local levels, the
objective being to help focus on effective service delivery, education quality, the efficient use of public
resources, as well as to promote equity in access and attainment.
Education Expenditures
Government spending on education was 3.7 percent of the per capita GDP in 2001, one of the lowest in
the Central and Eastern European region. Education is clearly under-funded considenng that the student
age share of the population is the highest in Europe. In'EU, average spending is about 5.3 percent of the
per capita GDP. In Kosovo's consolidated recurrent budget education is by far the largest category at
19.8 percent of the total. Personnel expenditure accounts f'or about 70 percent of the budget. The
Kosovo Poverty Assessment of 2001 shows that public expenditures are regressive given the strong
correlation between poverty and utilization of education services particularly at secondary level. By and
large, efficiency indicators are comparable to European averages with a 19:1 pupil-teacher ratio at both
primary and secondary levels, and with minimal administrative overhead in 2001 (more on public
expenditures in Annex 4).
While on average public unit costs for primary school education were around 120EUROs, household
expenditures (including out-of-pocket contributions, travel, clothing, etc.) were almost the same level at
nearly lOOEUROs. For secondary education public unit costs were 140EUROs whereas household
expenditures were as much as 200EUROs per student. Although the per capita funding introduced this
year may help to alleviate inequities in funding, the government should consider providing some funding
to compensate-for some of the expenses especially for the poorest households, or find alternatives to
provide targeted support for them.
-3 -



Literacy, Educational Enrollment, Attainment and Completion
The lack of access to formal education during the 1990s resulted in an increase in illiteracy (15 to 22
percent) among the 16 to 25 year olds. Given the present high level of enrollment in primary education,
illiteracy is expected to drop down to below 5 percent. Also, during the 1990s, average educational
attainment (number of years in school completed) fell significantly for the non-Serb population.
Inequalities in educational attainment still persist between ethnic groups, by gender, by poverty and by
the urban-rural divide.
Although official information is lacking, the Poverty Assessment of 2001--based on a household survey
carried out during the 1999/2000 academic year--indicated that there are gaps both in access, in
completion and in attainment at primary and secondary education. Aggregate data show relatively high
levels of enrollment in primary education, although if disaggregated, there are differences among ethnic
groups with respect to attendance and completion. At the primary level, gross enrollment during the
1999/2000 school year was 97 percent. It is likely that many over-aged children were then enrolled as
they missed many years of education during the 1 990s. If this is the case, it also means that children who
are supposed to be enrolled now are not in the school system (a rapid social assessment based on an
empirical survey and secondary analysis of the LSMS data has been finalized).
The Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS) showed significant problems with completion of
primary education, one of the comerstones for achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) and
to establish basic human capital if the province is to succeed in becoming competitive in the medium
term. The survey showed that as many as I I percent of children age 14 are not in school, meaning that is
highly unlikely that these children will ever complete primary education. Among girls, close to 10
percent of the 13 year olds and 17 percent of the 14 year olds are not in school.
The LSMS data also provides information on completion and confirms that a large portion of different
age cohorts do not complete eight years of primary education:
Table M. Primary Education Completion by
age cohort by gender and geographical location
completion of 8 years or higher for different age groups
age groups   all  boys girls rural urban rural boys rural girls
15 82.91 85.67 80.06 83.08 82.57      83.05     83.12
16 87.42   94.1 81.18 87.19 87.82     96.66     78.53
17 89.53 89.34 89.69 89.24 90.07      89.51     88.97
18 91.88 94.01 89.66 90.57 93.91      94.14     86.58
19  89.4 94.17 84.31   88.2 91.73     95.21     80.09
Source: Kosovo Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS).
As the data shows, roughly 10 to 12 percent of the different age groups from age 16 do not complete
primary education and this average is about 2 to 10 percent worse for those living in rural areas and for
girls. For rural girls, the completion rate typically does not reach 90 percent.
Among those who are out of school, 29 percent suggested it was too expensive, 20 percent found little
interest in school, and 17 percent referred in 1999 to safety reasons. However, the issue of safety was
significant largely among those living in urban areas. This also coincides with the children coming from
extreme poverty. These are also predominantly Roma children. Among the poor, the most critical
reasons are the out-of-pocket costs, the lack of interest and the need to participate in agricultural labor. It
-4 -



is also noteworthy that while out-of-pocket payment is the dominant reason among boys, among girls the
most important reasons for not being in school were the lack of interest and security issues.
The lowering of the minimum entry age from seven to six years was implemented from academic year
2001. To add to the challenge, as of September 2002, compulsory primary education has been extended
to nine years (instead of the previous eight years). As a result, secondary education has been reduced by
one year. The introduction of nine years of compulsory primary level schooling was carried out without
adequate planning of the physical and human capacities necessary, and without adequate curriculum
planning (including textbooks, training, etc.). In some parts of Kosovo, the ninth grade schooling is
being provided in designated secondary schools and, especially in rural areas, a significant portion of the
students do not have access to it, given the relatively large distance from secondary schools.
At secondary level, the overall enrollment rate is low and there are significant gaps in enrollment among
girls, children from rural areas, children from poor families as well as children from some ethnic groups.
Gross enrollment data reveal enrollment rates of 74 percent of Albanian boys as opposed to 56 percent of
Albanian girls; 78 percent of children from urban areas as opposed to 59 percent from rural communities;
and 36 (rural) percent to 62 (urban) percent of those coming from the lowest expenditure decile as
opposed to 76 (rural) percent to 89 (urban) percent of those coming from the highest expenditure decile.
Key factors are transition from primary to secondary education, choice of secondary education tracks and
successful completion of secondary programs. The key reasons include: high out-of-pocket payments (as
discussed earlier), security problems and distance to school, plus the lack of incentives and sufficient
attention to local level issues relating to enrollment, attendance and completion.
Educational content, curriculum, teaching and learning standards
So far, neither the Government nor the lead donor agencies have worked on quality standards in terms of
the content, the output and outcomes of public education. The first steps have been made by the lead
donor agencies which have been assigned responsibility for various inputs and levels of education,
including: UNICEF for curriculum development and pre-school education, the Government of Canada for
teacher development, the German Government for secondary technical/vocational, the Finnish
Government for special education, and the World Bank for assessments and management. In this
context, the Canadian Government has worked with the Government to define quality performance
standards for teachers. The German support via GTZ helped define new structure for vocational
education. The Finnish Government helped define quality objectives for special education. The World
Bank's support for the Standards and Assessment Unit is expected to establish the basic capacities for
testing and quality assessments. For a complete list of donor agencies and areas of support, please refer
to Section D, sub-section 2.
Reforms have progressed especially in teacher training and in curriculum matters for early primary
grades, thanks to support from the Canadian Government, the Soros Foundation, and UNICEF.
Meanwhile, reform of secondary education has not been started. Enrollment at secondary level is one of
the lowest in Europe. Curriculum is teacher-centered. Supplies of materials, equipment and training are
severely limited. Vocational programs are targeted towards narrow specializations. Vocational
secondary education is not aimed at broad competencies, those that give young people the types of
flexible skills that will be needed in Kosovo's dynamic, informal job market.
- 5 -



School Infrastructure and Rehabilitation
As in most countries in the Balkans, many schools are organized into clusters under one administration
with one central school providing education for eight grades linked to satellite schools providing
education for the first four grades. In many areas, the recently introduced ninth grade classes at primary
level are being provided in separate institutions. Of the 961 registered schools in 2001, 554 were central
schools. At secondary level, out of the 147 schools,  10 were central schools. Primary schools had
about 322 pupils on average whereas secondary schools had about 638 pupils.
Reports indicate significant deterioration prior to the conflict and destruction of school infrastructure
during the conflict. Between 1999-2001, about one fourth of the schools were rehabilitated with donor
assistance, including the Japanese and Swiss Governments, as well as by the Islamic Development Bank.
However, donor funding has declined over the last two years and is expected to further decline in the
near future. Meanwhile, the fast growing student population and the status quo of the education
infrastructure suggest that in the near future, Kosovo will have increasingly overcrowded schools.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The objective of the proposed Project is to improve educational attainment at primary and secondary
education levels and to enhance access of vulnerable groups to education. With the youngest population
and the highest birthrate in Europe, it is critical that the future labor force in Kosovo is adequately
educated, and that individuals and groups have social mobility and opportunity to avoid poverty. The
growth in student-age population requires special attention at all levels to the challenge of full enrollment
and full completion of primary education. Schools are becoming overcrowded in urban areas and in some
rural areas.
At the state level, more government spending is needed for education as the low level Government
financing will not sustain the system for a country with a high proportion of school-age children. The
extension of primary/compulsory education to nine years further increases the challenge. The recently
introduced capitation formula helps allocate the public resources to the municipalities where the student
population is the largest. However, further training in the use of the guidelines is needed so that
municipalities allocate resources to schools in line with demand.
At the community and school level, adequate information needs to be collected about who is in and out
of school. Many children do not attend primary education at all or attend for just a few years. This is
especially the case for children from small ethnic groups, from rural areas (especially girls), and from
poor communities. Not coincidentally, schools are most overcrowded in the same communities and
schools have difficulties coping with demand. Many classrooms are small, under-equipped, textbooks
are not available, and teachers are unable to cope with the large number of children. Children and
families will not be motivated to enroll or to attend school if: (a) getting to school or staying in school
are difficult or is considered unsafe; (b) they have no interest in education; and (c) it incurs expenses that
families cannot afford (clothes, extra meals, school materials, etc.).
The 2001 Poverty Assessment showed that some of the key factors affecting enrollment and attendance
are significant out-of-pocket payments, lack of interest in education, safety concerns and distance to
school especially in secondary education and especially for girls and among minorities. Of those, five to
14 year olds who were not enrolled in 1999-2000 (when the security situation was difficult), 28.75
percent quoted (c) 20.72 percent quoted (b) and 20.95 percent quoted (a), while some 10 percent of the
children of this age group reported their education to be completed. Meanwhile, surprisingly, among the
extremely poor and for those living in urban areas, the main concern was safety (42 percent and 49
-6 -



percent respectively). For those living in rural areas, the dominant reasons are expenses and lack of
interest. Among girls, lack of interest dominated whereas among boys, expenses were the main
constraint.
There are also indications that the most risky periods are transition from 8th to 9th grades and from
primary to secondary education. There are indications that these transitions are especially challenging
for specific groups, especially for girls and for those living in rural areas. Some data also show that the
situation is not improving and for some groups it is actually worsening. These trends suggest that
improvement in the quality of learning and effectiveness of schooling could have a positive impact on the
completion rate for primary education and on these transitions.
At secondary level, there are problems with demand for schooling. Children from non-Serb ethnic
minority groups are not continuing their education because of low quality primary education, and
consequent inadequacy in basic literacy and numeracy skills. These gaps have resulted in significant
differences in education attainment. There are also indications of further declines at least for some
minority groups (mainly Roma, Turks, Bosnians and other non-Serb Slavs).
Some of these issues are difficult to address through an education investment project. Also, the amount
planned for the proposed Project does not allow for significant improvement of physical access (i.e.,
building roads and schools), although schools could take some steps to facilitate travel arrangements,
expand classrooms, or to improve school safety. Given the level of IDA financing (US$ 4.5 mllion)
available for investment, a decision has been made to design a highly focused project, which will target
only the access issue and will not directly target quality improvement. While the proposed Project
interventions--school level planning and the implementation of small school-based projects-could be
expected to have a positive impact on education quality and relevance, as well as on community
participation in the education process, these outcomes will be defined for purposes of this project as
incentives to increase participation in the education system. The success or failure of this highly focused
project will be measured on the basis of increased enrollments, attendance and completion of grades and
educational levels.
It is important that both supply and demand challenges are addressed by appropriate service delivery.
Schools and school/municipality partnerships are best positioned to monitor problems related to demand,
i.e., dropouts, those not enrolled, those that do not attend or have consistently low performance levels,
and to assess why some children or families are more pre-disposed to doing so than others. If demand
could be improved by facilitating travel or safety arrangements, these may also be best addressed locally.
The proposed Project is largely designed on the recognition that, in addition to the underlying social
challenges, improving the quality and relevance of educational services is also essential to increasing
enrollments. Particularly at the secondary level, programs need to be more attractive and flexible to meet
local need. At all levels, teaching methods could be improved, some materials, equipment provided, and
extra services (for instance for parents) introduced to make education more attractive, and some minor
improvements in the infrastructure may be initiated (i.e., to improve hygiene or make classrooms better
suited for education, etc.) where these factors are identified as problems affecting access or attendance.
School-based initiatives are likely to be the best way to assure that improvements in access and
attainment are sustainable in the medium term so that school management, school boards and
municipalities learn how to track children, and how to connect effectiveness (measured for instance
- 7 -



by number of dropouts, numbers attending school) with measures to improve services. Strengthening the
recently established decentralized institutional framework and defining adequate mandates for schools
and municipalities are, therefore, key for sustainability.
Since the Education and Health Project (approved in 2000) helped to decentralize education financing
and administration, the proposed Project will continue the process by addressing the above challenges
locally. Financial incentives to schools will be provided using a school grant scheme. It is expected that
these incentives would motivate school management to engage in activities that help improve access and
attainment. In order to achieve this, the proposed Project needs to help strengthen local planning and
management capacities, strengthen the role of school boards, and the participation of municipalities.
While the primary goal remains the improvement of attainment and access, implementation and
sustainability will require improved local planning, management and participation.
Maintaining adequate records of trends influencing attainment and access - including enrollment,
attendance, year-end and school-end completion, require improved education management information
system (EMIS) as part of a sustained effort to monitor and evaluate indicators. Reinforcing the
sustainability of the EMIS established in the context of the ongoing Education and Health Project is also
a priority.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(a)    School Development Grants (SDG): The objective of the SDG component is to provide funding
to schools to help increase enrollment, attendance, and retention in primary and secondary education.
Through the SDG process, approximately US$ 3.4 million in grant finding will be awarded in targeted
small grant contracts to approximately 50 percent of the 550 primary schools and 110 secondary schools
in Kosovo's 30 municipalities. Primary schools will be eligible for grants up to US$10,000 and
secondary schools will be eligible for grants up to US$ 15,000. The grants will be awarded on the basis
of school development plans and grant proposals, which will be evaluated by Municipal School Grant
Teams (MSGTs) and approved by a central School Grants Approval Board (SGAB). All schools selected
for the program will receive technical assistance and training in the areas of school development planning
and proposal writing. Schools will be selected for the program by municipal education officials on the
basis of documented access and retention problems in the school's catchment area. Selection criteria will
focus largely on enrollment, drop out, and attendance statistics. Grant proposals, prepared by the
selected schools, will be evaluated by the MEST on the basis of how effectively they address access and
retention problems. The grants will finance training, community outreach activities, educational
materials and school supplies, and some small works aimed at improving security and the educational
environment. Random special purpose audit of the school grants will be carried on a yearly basis to
ensure that the school grants are being used for the purposes intended.
(b)    Improving the Education Management Information System: The objective of this component
is to help strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the EMIS, which was designed and initiated under
the ongoing Education and Health Project. More specifically, the EMIS will help monitor enrollment,
attendance, repetition, dropout and completion, as well as try to account for children in the targeted
municipalities, who are not participating in the school system. The proposed Project will finance local
and intemational technical assistance, extemal training, and limited equipment and furniture of central
level and municipal offices.
-8 -



(c)    Project management: The objective of this component is the effective implementation,
monitonng and evaluation of the proposed Project. The implementing agency for the Project is the
Ministry for Education, Science and Technology (MEST). A small team of professional staff will form a
Project Management Unit (PMU) for the implementation of the proposed Project. The PMU will be
headed by a national Project Director who has been hired under the ongoing project as Deputy Director.
He is receiving on-the-job training from an international Project Director of the education component of
the Education and Health Project. The national Project Director recruited for the proposed Project has a
background and experience in financial management. Most of the staff have already been contracted
under the ongoing Education and Health Project and were involved in the preparation of the proposed
Project. Perfornance of the local professional staff has been satisfactory to date and the team for
implementation of the proposed Project will be maintained to ensure continuity and preserve the skills
and knowledge gained under the ongoing project. The PMU will also be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of results under the school development grants component. The component would finance
technical assistance, limited computer and office equipment, and training of staff.
During negotiations it was agreed that UNMIK/MEST will ensure that the PMU is maintained under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and is provided with adequate resources, staff and facilities. The
PMU will have responsibility for day-to-day Project management and supervision, and will report to the
Permanent Secretary, MEST and the Principal International Officer within MEST of UNMIK.
,,; -          -.--. -. ...,.-=.--  r  -*...  ,.- -  !-  E  l ndicative.
~ --- . ;"   .E-- Component,,. .h pnB,>     'nk- , Costs  --_- *   . Inad pi
=- -          _ -. .f, if,      i -  ..  (US$M)  Total,' 'qUSM  .financing:
1. School Planning and School Development Grants     3.79      82.4      3.70      82.2
2. Education Management Information System            0.30      6.5       0.29       6.4
3. Project Management                                 0.51      11.1     0.51       11.3
Total Project Costs  4.60    100.0      4.50      100.0
Total Financing Required    4.60     100.0      4.50     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed Project will target the following policy issues
(i)   Improving equity in terms of access, retention and completion: The primary goals of the
school development grants are to attract students whc are not enrolled to school, create
incentives for schools to reduce the incidence of non-attendance and dropouts, and to increase
primary completion at 9th grade and secondary completion.
(ii)  Strengthening school level education planning: School management and school boards will be
trained to develop school development plans. These plans will be pre-requisites for schools to
participate in the school grant process.
(iii)  Improving the effectiveness of schools to maximize enrollment, attendance, survival-rate and
completion: Grants will support school-based initiatives to improve learning conditions, school
effectiveness and the quality of teaching and learning, and, especially at secondary level, the
relevance of education.
(iv)   Strengthening central and local government capacity: The education management information
system will be strengthened to track student flows, school attendance, completion of classes and
grades, monitor the outcomes of the system, enrollment, attainment and monitor the school grant
-9-



process as well as school based initiatives will set models for the central government to design
and implement targeted interventions. In addition, the school grant scheme could be sustained
either to continue improving access and attainment but also to target directly quality
improvements in the system.
3. Benefits and target population:
o   Through the improvement of access and attainment, the project will primarily benefit the poorest,
those who live in rural areas, girls, and non-Albanian, non-Serb minorities, who, in general, have had
more limited access and lower attainment;
o   Through the improvement of effectiveness, quality and relevance, the whole student population in the
selected schools will benefit; and
o   Through the improved planning, management and strengthened participation, local stakeholders will
benefit from the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project implementation arrangements established under the Education and Health Project will
continue under the Education Participation Improvement Project. The PMU will comprise a Project
Director/Financial manager, Procurement Specialist, and an Accountant. The PMU Director, satisfactory
to IDA, has been selected, and has been hired as Deputy Director of the ongoing Education and Health
Project, on the understanding reached with IDA that he will be appointed as PMU Director immediately
following Grant effectiveness. It is planned that an Education Specialist/Deputy Director,
Accountant/Financial Management Specialist and a Procurement assistant will be selected once the
project is effective.
Project financial management will be handled by an international financial manager who was hired under
an on going Education and Health Project with primary responsibility to monitor and prepare project
management reports for all bank projects and who is located in the MFE. The MFE will be responsible
for the financial management and reporting requirements of the project. The MFE has in place a
financial management system that is capable of producing Project Management Reports as required by
IDA. This system has been utilized for other IDA-financed projects. As part of its responsibilities, the
MFE will open and maintain the project's Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA as it
has done for several other IDA projects. All payments will be made by the MFE. The PMU established
at the MEST will prepare all the relevant documents and obtain the required clearances and coordinate
very closely with the MFE. The PMU will be responsible for implementation functions such as
procurement, progress reports, annual work programs and budgets and monitoring of implementation of
the School Grants. Relations between the MFE and the MEST have been exemplary under the ongoing
project.
Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing under the EPIP, to a maximum amount of US$ 60,000 for
school grants under the Education and Health Project, will be made to the MFE in accordance with IDA
policy.
During negotiations, MEST adopted an Operating Manual (dated March 31, 2003) that is satisfactory to
IDA. The POM will facilitate project management and implementation. The Operating Manual
contains:. (i) detailed project objectives and components description; (ii) key implementation issues and
strategies; (iii) summary of procedures for monitoring project implementation; (iv) methods of
procurement to be followed as per Procurement Schedule in the Grant Agreement; and (v) a Procurement
Handbook (as a separate volume), including detailed procedures and forms to be used for procurement
under the Schools Grants component. UNMIK/MEST/PMU shall not make changes to the POM without
- 10 -



written no objection approval from IDA. The PMU will organize training for all municipalities
participating in the project to ensure understanding of the procedures specified in the POM.
(a)   School Development Grants
The school grant process will position the schools and the local communities in the center of the
implementation process. Schools will engage in development planning and development of grant
proposals, which target improvements in access, attendance and completion. School management and the
school boards in the selected schools will be expected to take a key role in defining the school
development plans. These plans will define benchmarks in terms of student numbers, retention,
completion, performance and use of resources to achieve these benchmarks. The selection will be done
in consultation with municipal authorities (more details are provided in Annex 2).
Under the ongoing Education and Health Project a pilot of the school grants process is currently being
carmed out. The ongoing Education and Health Project finances a small contract with a local NGO, the
Kosovo Education Center (KEC), to provide training to schools and facilitate preparation of the grant
proposals and school development plans. An agreement has been reached between the Kosovo Open
Society Foundation (KFOS) and the Bank during appraisal on joint financing of the contract with KEC
for the school grant component. A total budget for technical assistance and outreach services is estimnated
at about US$ 290,000. It is planned that KFOS will provide about US$ 100,000 (to cover fees of KEC
staff and overheads) and the remaining US$ 190,000 (for contracting local facilitators, training of school
teams, covering in-country transportation and lodging expenses for the training events participants) will
be financed from the IDA Grant. The terms of reference have been jointly agreed by IDA and KFOS;
both donors will disburse the funds through separate contracts with KEC based on the agreed terms of
reference.
Details and procedures for selection of schools, submission and evaluation of grant proposals, monitoring
and supervision of the grants implementation, etc. are given in Annex 2, and are included in the
Operating Manual. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 6 and spelled out in detail in
Procurement Handbook of the Operating Manual.
(b)   Education Information Systems
Development of an EMIS which was started under the ongoing project will be continued under the
Education Participation Improvement Project. The objective will be to ensure that the new MEST is able
to monitor systemic performance in the areas of access and retention. Financing will be focused to
ensure the sustainability of the EMIS. This will be done through capacity building of internal MEST
(which is constrained by the inability of public services to pay and retain qualified staff), and possibly by
outsourcing technical information services to a local contractor to ensure sustainability of the system
after the project completion.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Poverty Assessment pointed towards several constraints to improving access and attainment.
Accordingly, several types of interventions and institutional arrangements have been considered:
(a)    Compensating for out-of-pocket payments: Family support through cash payments may
adequately compensate for household expenditures, improving demand for education. However, social
- 11 -



assessment showed that out-of-pocket expenditures are only one of the reasons for children not going to
school. It does not explain why children drop out, which is more related to gender and location rather
than to poverty. As a stand-alone instrument, cash payments would not be instrunental in addressing
quality and effectiveness issues. Cash payments may be considered as a good complementary measure to
assist marginalized families with the added incentive to make sure children from these families enroll and
attend school. However, local capacities to account for these children need to be established, access to
schools for some of the children (especially at secondary level) need to be facilitated, and educational
programs, as well as the learning environment, need to be improved to make the effect of payments more
sustainable. In addition, conditional cash transfers for now are not part of the Government's social
assistance policy agenda.
(b)    Facilitating better physical access to schools: In order to improve access to schooling
commensurate transportation arrangements will also be required. The provision of major works to
facilitate physical access (roads, transportation) and/or more schools or classrooms may be appropriate to
remedy limited access. However, the available project grant would not be adequate to address large
transportation infrastructure issues or school construction. Therefore, building schools, roads or
extended public transportation systems should be considered for other projects or donors. Surveys
undertaken as part of project monitoring and evaluation will, however, identify areas in which
transportation infrastructure or school space is an enrollment constraint. Also, schools may use the
proposed development grants to support better transportation of the children especially at secondary
level, and in limited cases, to extend classroom space.
(c)    Central provision of non-salary inputs: Kosovo lacks adequate textbooks, materials and other
small equipment. These are presently paid mostly by parents. Central provision of these, however,
would not be fiscally sustainable, and would not help promote planning and priorntization of needs at
school level. Instead, schools may use the development grants to purchase textbooks, materials and small
equipment.
(d)    Focus on supporting central government capacities versus municipalities or schools:
Making sure that all children have access to education, and that public expenditures are fairly distributed
are the basic responsibilities of the Govermnent. The institution-building that had started during the
Education and Health Project should continue, and the Government needs to refine its financing to make
it more pro-poor and policy oriented. Further, the Government should develop capacities and methods to
provide assistance for the poorest e.g., subsidized textbooks or compensating out-of-pocket expenditures.
However, the decentralization process that has been started during the first project requires further
institutional and capacity building at the local level. As a complement to central capacity building,
municipalities should take a key role in making sure that all eligible children are accounted for and given
access to education. This in turn needs to be complemented by improving school effectiveness and the
quality of learning/teaching to make sure increased access is sustained. Consequently, the main focus of
the project is on improving municipal and school capacities, and on extending schools' mandates to
improve access and attainment.
(e)    Focus on primary versus secondary education: The data show that secondary education has
significant inequities and gaps in enrollment and attainment, whereas in primary education the aggregate
information on gross enrollment shows no serious quantitative challenges. However, in primary
education, while the gross enrollment rate is estimated at 97 percent, net enrollment may be significantly
lower and there is evidence that specific minority groups do have low enrollment rates, which will need
to be urgently addressed if Kosovo is to meet the EFA/MDG goals. Also, low attendance, low quality of
education and similar problems at primary level have negative effects on secondary education enrollment
- 12-



and attainment. The planned social assessment should help define an adequate balance between
assistance targeted at primary and secondary levels, respectively.
(f)    Competition versus targeting: There are several ways of identifying eligible schools to receive
school development grants. One possibility, followed in other countries in the region, is to make the
school grant scheme competitive, based on the adequacy of the school development plans and grant
proposals. However, this option could result in the most advanced/able schools receiving the grants and
not the ones where the enrollment/attendance problems are concentrated. Therefore, the project needs to
use targeting procedures and criteria, which empower municipal authorities to identify schools for
support under the project.
(g)    Why a grant and not a credit: Kosovo is currently under administration by the United Nations
according to UNSC 1244, and the resolution of its final stalus may take some time. It is not currently
possible for IDA to lend to Kosovo, and thus an IDA grant is the only financing mechanism available for
this project. UNMIK will be the recipient of the IDA grant.
(h)    Public-Private institutions: The Project will opeiate through the public education system, and
is designed to build on and reinforce systemic reforms, especially decentralization and management
capacity-building, that were established in the current Kosovo Education and Health Project. The main
institutional functions, therefore, are based at each level in public sector institutions. Privately provided
education in Kosovo is not significant. Nevertheless, as with the ongoing Kosovo Education and Health
Project, a certain number of the institutional capacity-building activities will be provided through NGOs
and the private sector, with support from international expertise where required.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
[   K>_. . ~i-t      --r-         - ~       .u :.: '- --      _.Latest Supevsion
d .i..:.Sector lssue.- -Pj                      -.    .Ratings .
,,-_.  -__ .                                            L -  B  kfir d poj6Ets-only)-
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Education admmnistration and     Kosovo Education and Health      S            S
financing                        Project
Design of basic safety net and Social  Kosovo Social Protection   S            S
welfare system                   Project
Other development agencies
UNICEF                           Curriculum Development and
Capacity Building Program
UNICEF--Japanese Government      School reconstruction,
Rehabilitation and Repair
Program
UNICEF                           Training on Interactive
Learning Project
UNICEF and Government of Finland  Special Needs Educational
Program for children in Lapje
Selo and in Shtime/Stimlje
CIDA                             Kosovo Educator Development
Project (various dimensions of
teacher training and capacity
- 13-



building)
EC/EAR                            Vocational Training in
Electronics and Business
Adnnnistration
UNDP--Japanese funded             ADRA School Reconstruction
Program
Islamic Development Bank          Reconstruction Program
Swiss                             2001 Reconstruction Program
EAR                               Program on General
Refurbishment of the
University of Prishtina
Buildings, including the
chemistry, agriculture and
engineering faculties
German Technical Cooperation      Vocational Education
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The first Education and Health Project in Kosovo helped to establish a decentralized education
administration system and a core Education Management Information System. It helped to empower
local authorities but also showed that partnership is needed with schools to establish incentives to
achieve tangible education outcomes. The Bank has had a long experience working with school grants in
most regions including in ECA and - in particular -- in the Balkans. Project implementation
arrangements have been designed to take into account comments made in the recent QAG review of the
Kosovo Social Protection Project.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
A school grant pilot is being carried out under the ongoing project. Discussions about the pilot with
government and UNMIK authorities, and with a range of education stakeholders, have demonstrated
commitment at all levels to the project concept and objectives, as well as to the implementation and
institutional arrangements.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's experience with school grants particularly in the South East European region provides a
unique opportunity to adjust the project design based on lessons learned elsewhere. The Bank's ongoing
role in supporting education financing and administration reform in Kosovo will also help make the
project objectives an integral part of the policy agenda.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
l. Economic (see Annex 4):
J Cost benefit NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
_ Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
See economic analysis in Annex 4.
- 14 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
N/A
Fiscal Inpact:
The planned project costs of US$ 4.6 million represents on average about USS 1.5 million for each of the
three project implementation years (2003-2006). Total project costs represent about 6 percent of the
2002 education allocation in the Kosovo general budget. This is equivalent to just over one percent of
the total general budget. Total counterpart funding in the amount of less than US$ 100,000 is relatively
small and would not have a significant impact on the education budget. The counterpart funds required
for the proposed Project cover 5 percent of operational costs. The increase in recurrent costs (to maintain
the EMIS component and the school grants component) resulting from the project would also be
relatively small. If following project implementation MES1' finds that the impact of school grants is
positive, and has helped to improve access and attainment, MEST could consider continuing to provide
targeted subsidies in the form of school grants through the education budget. This would largely vary by
municipality depending on the geographical location of the schools, and the school development plans
for the schools benefiting from the Project. The government is addressing recurrent cost issues with
respect to the operation of the sector on the basis of recommendations outlined in the recently completed
World Bank report, Kosovo: Medium Term Public Expenditure Priorities. Further research on ways to
decrease costs and increase teacher efficiency is urgently required, particularly following the social
tensions relating to education employees--a strike which paralyzed the education system for three weeks
in October 2002.
The fiscal impact of the project may also be measured in relation to different budget categories in the
education budget. The project has three components: (1) School Development Grants; (2) Education
Management Information System (EMIS); and (3) Project Management. The school development grants
component (82 percent of total project costs) is expected to improve enrollment, attendance, and
completion rates. Project costs will not finance recurrent expenses such as salaries and wages. Relative
to goods, services and capital investments (24 percent of total budget for education), the school grants
represent about 5 percent of the 2002 general budget. The World Bank's Medium Term Expenditure
Priorities for Kosovo concluded that spending on goods, services and capital investments is not
sufficient. Additional spending through the project is expected to have a positive impact on the structure
of the education budget. School grants will be used as incenitives for school management and municipal
governance. This is in line with international trends of using public expenditure to stimulate
performance, efficiency, and quality. Improving enrollment and completion rates requires improvements
in efficiency and lower per capital expenditures. Given the current budget structure, school development
grants are expected to act as a positive incentive in terms of fiscal sustainability.
- 15 -



3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
The proposed Project will be implemented over a three year period and all implementation arrangements
will be governed by the guidelines and procedures set out in the Project Operating Manual (POM) and in
accordance with the Project Implementation Schedule. The POM is aimed at supporting the overall
achievement of project objectives. However, except as IDA shall otherwise agree, UNMIK shall not, and
will ensure that the MEST and the PMU do not, amend, suspend, abrogate, terminate or waive any
provision of the Operating Manual without the prior written consent of IDA.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Development Grant Agreement will be signed with UJNMIK. UNMIK will delegate the
responsibility for project execution to the Principal International Officer of the MEST. The day-to-day
operations of project implementation will be handled by the PMU on behalf of MEST.
4.2 Project management:
An assessment of the institutional capacity of the PMU of the Education and Health Project (Attachment
I to Annex 2) revealed that with minor modifications, including strengthening of the procurement and
financial management capacity, the PMU of the ongoing Education and Health Project will be able to
meet the demands of managing the proposed Project.
The Project Management Unit's (PMU) main focus will be on: (1) providing assistance to the schools
and municipalities on implementation, procurement and financial management (2) coordinating between
the local and central levels and (3) monitoring and evaluating implementation at the institutional level
and for the project overall. The core PMU capacities established under the Education and Health Project
will be strengthened in these areas and will continue to be responsible for the implementation of the
proposed Education Participation Improvement Project. The PMU will comprise a Project Director,
Procurement Specialist, and an Accountant. It is planned that a Education Specialist/Deputy Director,
Accountant/Financial Management Specialist and a Procurement assistant will be selected once the
project is effective. Project financial management will continue to be handled by an international
financial manager who was hired under an on going IDA-financed Grant with primary responsibility to
monitor and prepare project management reports for all Bank projects and who is located in the MFE. A
School Grants Approval Board (SGAB) composed of various stakeholders will be established to monitor
implementation of the school grants program. The PMU Director will also function as the Secretary of
the SGAB. The capacities of the PMU will be continuously be monitored to see if the responsibilities in
terms of coordination, monitoring and reporting are adequately met.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement. Retroactive financing for School Grants for schools that participated in the school grant
pilot and received funds from the MFE budget prior to EPIP effectiveness will be carried out in
accordance with para 1.9 of the Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing of Procurement
Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The procurement procedures will conform to the
provisions of the Procurement Handbook for School Grants. The Procurement Handbook will be
formally cleared by IDA prior to the commencement of any steps to initiate the procurement process.
The amount of grants that were provided to schools participating in the pilot will be reimbursed
- 16 -



retroactively in one lumpsum payment amounting to a maximum of US$ 60,000 to the MFE following
Grant effectiveness.
Details of procurement issues are provided in Annex 6(A).
4.4 Financial management issues:
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the proposed Project was undertaken in October
2002 and revised in February 2003 to determine whether the financial management arrangements are
acceptable to IDA. As of end-December 2002, the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) has been merged with
the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE). Along with the merger the staff, duties and
responsibilities of the CFA were passed on to the MFE. MFE has a financial system in place, that is
being used for other IDA-financed grants. This system is capable of providing accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning, procurement accounting
and financial reporting. Prior to negotiations, UNMIK/MFE confirmed that the project records, accounts
and financial statements will be audited each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending
December 31, 2003. Furthermore, UNMIKIMFE confirmed that the Project chart of accounts has been
entered into MFE's Free Balance System of accounting. Once this is completed, the Financial
Management assessment will be revised to conclude that the project meets the IDA's minimum financial
management requirements.
During negotiations it was agreed that the financial management arrangements in place at the MFE for
the ongoing IDA grant-financed operations would be maintained for purposes of the Project.
UNM1IMEST agreed that the same Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) formats will be used for EPIP
reporting purposes, which formats have been included in Volume I of the Project Operating Manual.
Furtherrnore, during negotiations it was agreed that intemational standards on auditing would apply to
the records, accounts and financial statements maintained and prepared for the Project. The IDA team
confirmed that the audit services could be financed from the Grant proceeds. UNMIK/MEST agreed that
the auditor chosen by MFE to audit the ongoing IDA grant-financed projects (Deloitte and Touche)
would be retained to audit the Project accounts. It was also agreed that the auditors would carry out
random, special-purpose audits of the School Grant Component on an annual basis to ensure that the
funds under this component are being used for the purposes agreed. The audit TORs included in the
Operating Manual have been amended to reflect the special-purpose audit for the School Grant.
Component. It was agreed that IDA would be provided with the first set of audited financial statements
by June 30, 2004.
Retroactive Financing to a maximum amount of US$ 60,000 for school grants authorized under the
Education and Health Project will be made to MFE in accordance with IDA policy.
Details on financial management issues are provided in Annex 6(B).
- 17 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A household survey showed that parental contributions are a major impediment to sending children to
school and keeping them in school, especially in the case of girls and minority groups. It is inevitable
that budgetary constraints will continue to make significant parental contributions-particularly for inputs
such as textbooks, basic materials and school maintenance-a necessity in Kosovo, as in nearly all other
countries in the region. Therefore, limited subsidies for books and materials provided by central funding
sources or by donors should be targeted towards those families that cannot afford to pay for these inputs.
Sustainable funding will not be available to permit the PISG or donors to subsidize these inputs for all
parents. It is also important to develop mechanisms to regulate parents' contributions and to make them
more transparent. Non-compulsory fees should be regulated and safeguards introduced to make sure that
they are not used to keep children out of school.
As part of project design and preparation, a social assessment was finalized. The conclusions of the
social assessment were that: (i) school non-attendance and dropout is a significant problem in Kosovo;
(ii) at secondary level, the overall enrollment rate is low and there are significant gaps in enrollment for
girls, children from rural areas, children from poor families as well as children from some ethnic groups;
(iii) significant inequalities exist in enrollment and attendance by gender; (iv) efforts should be made to
improve gender equality in the eduation sector through long-term planning that incorporates both general
public awareness-raising programs, as well as more targeted campaigns to address the causes of gender
imbalances; (v) additional steps must be taken to integrate all segments of Kosovar society into the new
educational system; (vi) public awareness campaigns should be undertaken to gradually change public
perception and increased support for children with special needs and their teachers; (vii) private cost of
education remains a serious obstacle for educational attainment; and (viii) there is a strong correlation
between educational attainment and variables such as ethnicity, gender, income and geographical
location.
- 18-



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The key focus of the proposed Project is on strengthening local community participation in school
activities via school boards. At the municipal level, the Municipal School Grant Team (MSGT) will
facilitate stakeholder participation. At the central level, the School Grant Approval Board (SGAB) is the
key institution in which governmental and professional organizations will play an active role in
implementation .
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The proposed Project is being prepared with a local non-governmental organization Kosovo Education
Center (KEC) that is taking a lead role in piloting school grants under IDA and Soros Foundation
projects. An independent evaluation of the school pilot concluded that the NGO's work was satisfactory.
It is proposed that KEC will continue to take a lead in the training and outreach part of the school grants
component of the proposed project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A School Grants Approval Board (SGAB) will oversee implementation of the school grant scheme,
monitor and evaluate activities and outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
Project monitoring indicators to assess performance in terms of social development outcomes have been
agreed at appraisal and are provided in Annex 1. Monitoring indicators will include tracking net and
gross enrollment rates, completion rate at primary level, rate of transition from primary to secondary
level, and participation rates of students from ethnic groups facing problems with respect to enrollment,
attainment, and completion.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7 1 Are anv of the following safeguard policies triggered bv the project?
;'''., . Policy .                      : .                - -    |riggered p
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           Yes   No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 U Yes @ No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                U Yes @ No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       U Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     () Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
There is no physical construction or civil works associated with the proposed Project. Therefore, the
proposed Project is rated as environmental category "C".
- 19-



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As Kosovo's education system is being decentralized, the roles and responsibilities of municipal
authorities and school authorities will increase. Schools have increasing responsibility to work
effectively: reach out to all eligible children, make sure pupils attend and complete successfully their
education. Municipalities have increasing responsibility to make sure access is provided equally to all
and financing of schools is adequate in that it also assures non-recurrent expenditures. In that sense, the
school grant component helps to improve management and planning capacities, tests a feasible form of
incentive to schools to effectively manage service delivery and also tests a transfer mechanism to cover
some recurrent expenditures, finance equipment and materials, training and small capital improvements.
Municipal and school leaders will develop the capacity to plan and deliver small scale development
projects, and the central government will establish capacity to carry out project management and
evaluation, as well as introduce incentives for improved effectiveness and development. The school
grants will support the strengthening of school level management, the broadening of school level
authority, local community and municipal capacities to make sure all children are enrolled, attend school,
complete primary education and, preferably, transfer to secondary education. This capacity building will
help to sustain the local institutional basis for improving the effectiveness of schools in the targeted areas
of access and attainment.
To the extent the grants help to achieve the stated objectives of the school grants component, and
demonstrate the need for targeting resources to the poorest populations, MEST may consider financing
this type of activity beyond the project's lifetime. The school grant mechanism may be continued to
support the project's original objectives, but could also be used in the future to directly target quality
improvements in the system. However, the scope of future need for Government or donor financed
school development grants aimed at improving access and attainment cannot be judged at this point.
Governments in the region and international donors frequently use school grants to support school based
initiatives and to stimulate efficient and effective service delivery. Therefore, effective implementation
of the project may demonstrate the usefulness of this mechanism to support future policy agendas and
quality improvements.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   R    Risk&Ring         Ri-k Militigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Reduction in security and transportation   N        There is peace in Kosovo, and security is
problems constrain students from                    provided by international forces. Further
attending school.                                   improvements in security are expected.
Schools do not respond to the challenge;  M         Grants are likely to establish significant
school principals are too busy dealing              incentives for school principals and school
with daily problems to engage in                    boards to participate. Extensive training and
school-based initiatives or outreach                strengthened local participation (school boards
activities. School planning and                     and municipalities) will help strengthen
management capacity is not adequate to              capacities.
meet the challenge.
Municipalities and parents do not         M         Plans and school grant proposals will be signed
become sufficiently involved in the                 by both municipalities and by school boards
planning and school grant process.
Government will not sustain the           M         The per capita based financing and increasing
- 20-



Education Management Information                     attention paid to the MDG goals would
System.                                              motivate the Government to sustain the EMIS.
Schools and municipalities do not          M         TA for the pilot municipalities would help to
monitor enrollment and attendance by the             develop an adequate monitoring system for
children from families receiving cash                municipalities.
benefits.
From Components to Outputs
There is a risk that grant activities will  M        The pilot planning and grant activities will be
not bring about the planned outcomes in             thoroughly evaluated, and training to school
a short period.                                      management and boards will be adjusted based
on the lessons learned.
There is a risk that the Ministry or local  M        The student based allocation formula plus the
administrative agencies might not update             school planning process will create incentives
the information system on a regular basis,           not only to regularly collect information but
or use adequately the available                      also to rely on it in planning and management
information.                                         decisions.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The IDA Grant will be subject to the policies and procedures applicable to all IDA Credits/World Bank
Loans. Grant disbursement will begin only after IDA conveys to UNMIK a notice confirming
effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)    Disbursement of the school grants:
*   The MEST and/or the Recipient shall have established by all necessary legal and administrative
measures the School Grants Approval Board pursuant to lerms of reference satisfactory to the
Association and shall have appointed persons to such Board as members.
*   UNMIKJMEST shall have adopted and/or promulgated all necessary legal measures, satisfactory to
IDA, to establish the cnteria and procedures, satisfactory to IDA, for the selection and appointment
of school directors, and UNMIK/MEST, in accordance with such criteria and procedures, shall have
selected and appointed such number of school directors as may be necessary to fill all vacancies as
may exist in any schools in Kosovo.
(b)    Project Implementation:
*   UNMIK/MEST to ensure that the Project Management Unit with staffing, funds and facilities and
- 21 -



other resources satisfactory to IDA is maintained until the completion of the Project;
o   UTNMIK/MEST shall ensure that project implementation is carried out in accordance with the agreed
procedures, as detailed in the Operating Manual;
o   Procurement: updated detailed procurement plan satisfactory to IDA shall be submitted for each
following year of project implementation one month prior to the beginning of the year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
E 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
S 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
UNMIK/MEST has adopted an Operating Manual, dated March 31, 2003 that is satisfactory to IDA.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
N 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter Darvas                     Maureen McLaughl    a   Ogs haalant                Os
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Cou t   Direct r
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
f-4' ."'                   -, .KeymPerf&rran'e2'7 ,tDataCollection_Strftegy i*. -; . e
Hierarchy of Obje.ctives'- '    Indicators''.            ---.  -. .Critical -Assumnptions -:
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
to increase enrollment rates in Net and gross enrollment  Household survey, poverty  Relatively stable political and
primary and secondary      rates, completion rate at  assessment                 macroeconomic situation and
education                  primary level, rate of     Published information system  continued Govemment
transition from primary to  data                      comnumtment to fund education
secondary level            Ministry reports on school  thereby allowing greater
effectiveness              participation in education
to enhance access of girls and  Participation rates by students Household survey, poverty  Kosovo adopts the MDG goals
vulnerable groups to education from at risk groups    assessment,
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The objective of the project is  * reduction of dropout rate  * Published Education  Govemrnment remains
to improve educational        in the targeted schools;    Statistics             committed to increasing
attainment at primary and   * improvement in the       * School Grant Project    access for all, improving
secondary education levels    survival rate between       progress reports       quality as well as budget
and                           grades and completion rate  * Report from the      management.
to enhance access of          at primary level (currently  Education Management  Schools and local
vulnerable groups to          9 years) in the targeted   Information System on   communities find feasible
education.                    schools;;                   attaimment, completion  solutions for using the grants
* improved net and gross      and enrollment rates   effectively to improve
enrollment rates to                                attainment and completion
primary education in
targeted non-Serb and
Non-Albanian
communities,
* higher level transition to
and attainment at
secondary level especially
by girls in the targeted
communities.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Increasing enrollment in   Enrollment rates, dropout  Project report on enrollment,  Enrollment, dropout,
pnmary and secondary       rates, average number of years dropout, attendance at pnmary attendance improve, impacting
education, especially among  in the education system  and secondary level.       on attainment and completion
the marginalized groups,                                                         (9 years). Schools record
Decreasing dropout and                                                           thoroughly and reliably
increasing attendance in                                                         dropout and attendance
primary and secondary                                                            information.
- 23 -



education.
Increasing accountability and  School Development Plans  Evaluative reports of school  Consensus on local policy
participation via active school completed in about 300  development plans by   objectives is developed;
boards and school-municipal  schools.               Municipal Management       Schools involve parents and
government partnerships.                            Teams and PMU.             local conimunity in grant
activities and monmtoring.
Inreasing accountability and  Education Management  Report on EMIS             Government remains
administrative effectiveness  Information System has  implementation.          committed to sustain the
via strengthened management established data on dropout,                       EMIS.
system.                   attendance and completion (9
years) is available.
Project is effectively managed. School Grant process is  Regular project progress  Cooperation between project
implemented in a timely   reports.                  management, ministry and
manner.                                             UNMIK remains close.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
School Planning and       3,790,000.00              Formal progress and financial Pilot school grant program
Development Grants                                  reports                    evaluated, adjustments are
made in the manual, technical
assistance to training and
institutional development is
procured, implementation is
regularly monitored.
Education Management      300,000.00                Supervision Aide memoire   Technical assistance is
Information System                                                             procured, central and local
government has the capacity to
collect and use information
Project Management        510,000 00                 Supervision Aide Memoire  Ministry and UNMIK
cooperation is effective
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Project Objective:
The objective of the project is to improve educational attainment at primary and secondary education
levels to enhance access of vulnerable groups to education.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.79 million
Providing School Development Grants
Introduction
The objective of the School Development Grant (SDG) component is to provide funding to schools to
help increase enrollment, attendance and completion in primary and secondary education.
During the project, about US$ 3.4 million in grant funding will be awarded in targeted small grant
contracts to approximately 50 percent of the 550 primary schools and 110 secondary schools in Kosovo's
30 municipalities. Primary schools will be eligible for grants up to US$ 10,000, and secondary schools
will be eligible for grants up to US$ 15,000. The grants will be awarded on the basis of school
development plans and grant proposals, which will be assessed by Municipal School Grants Teams
(MSGTs) and approved by a central School Grants Approval Board (SGAB). All schools selected for the
program will receive technical assistance and training in the areas of school development planning and
proposal writing. Schools will be identified for the program by municipal education officials on the basis
of documented access and attainment problems in the school's catchment area. Schools will be selected
for participation in the project by each MSGT from this initial list on the basis of secondary criteria, and
given access to capacity-building support for the development of school grant proposals. Grant proposals;
prepared by the selected schools, will be assessed by the MSGTs and approved by the SGAB on the basis
of how effectively they propose to address access and retention problems. The grants will finance
training, community outreach activities, educational materials, school supplies, and small works aimed at
improving security and the educational environment. Grant contracts will be signed between the school
director, the MSGT, and the MEST, as represented by the Project Manager (see description below)
The aggregate amount of SDG funding will be allocated across municipalities on a per student capitation
basis. A percentage share of funding for each municipality will be agreed at appraisal, using 2002-2003
student numbers.
A pilot of the school grants process is currently being carried out under financing from the ongoing
Education and Health Project. A small contract (about US$ 20,000) was signed with the local Kosovo
Education Center (KEC) - a local NGO established by the Soros Foundation - and training provided in
school development planning and proposal writing and to develop a grants manual, a grant application,
and evaluation/targeting criteria for about 20 preselected primary and secondary schools. These schools
were proposed by KEC and approved by the MEST on the basis of documented access and retention
problems in the schools' catchment area. Due to limited funding under the ongoing project, only ten
schools will be awarded grants in the amount of $5,000 under the pilot phase. An interim School Grants
Approval Board, already established, has reviewed all proposals and ranked them in terms of quality.
Best practice proposals from the pilot will be shared with all schools in the program as models. Schools
- 25 -



that did not receive grants during the pilot phase may resubmit their proposals during the first phase of
the full project implementation. Due to the small amounts of the pilot grants, schools receiving grants
under the pilot may also apply for new grants during the full SDG implementation.
An external evaluation of the outreach phase of the school grant pilot has been carried out by experts
from Lithuania, Slovenia and Albania and the first draft of the evaluation has been reviewed by the Bank
team. The overall conclusion of the evaluation is that the outreach process has had a positive impact on
the schools and that both school and municipal officials are well focused on dealing with problems in
enrollment, attendance and student retention. Following the implementation of the grants, which are
currently being awarded, there is every expectation that measurable increases in enrollment, attendance
and retention will result in the coming years. The evaluation makes useful recommendations for
improving the implementation of the training and school development planning process and for
increasing the role, capacity and commitment of the stakeholders in the project. Among the report's
recommendations are: to strengthen the role of the School Boards in providing outreach to the local
community, to extend the training provided to mumcipalities, and to involve more actively the Regional
Education Officers working on the school grant program at the level of municipalities.
Institutional Arrangements
Detailed institutional and procedural arrangements for the SDG component are described below. These
procedures and arrangements have been developed in the context of the ongoing pilot and its evaluation,
and may continue to evolve as more lessons are learned in respective phases of the project.
Each of Kosovo's 30 municipalities will establish a Municipal School Grants Team (MSGT). The teams
will include Regional Education Officers (REOs), which are appointed by the central MEST, and
Municipal Education Directors (MEDs), which are elected in the municipality, as well as other key
community leaders. The MSGT will be in charge of selecting the schools on the basis of established
criteria, assessing proposals before they are evaluated in comparison with other municipalities, and
monitoring implementation. Specific criteria for the selection of schools in the program, which focuses
largely on enrollment, drop out and attendance statistics, will be reviewed and agreed at appraisal.
Municipalities and local communities, through the MSGTs, will identify the schools and communities
where problems of enrollment, attendance and completion are most serious. An outreach program will
also help the municipalities in this process. If there are disagreements among different stakeholders
about the schools to be selected, these will be resolved by the central level SGAB (see below).
In the special case of Mitrovica North, as well as of other Serbian enclaves in Kosovo, the Mitrovica
Regional Education Board is expected to provide outreach services, including preselection of schools and
monitoring, mentoring planning, proposal writing and implementation. The Mitrovica Regional
Education Board will be assisted by a regional outreach coordinator, and jointly supervised by the Project
Director, PMU and by the Principal International Officer (PIO).
Selected schools will receive training and outreach from a technical assistance provider. This technical
assistance will help strengthen the capacity of school management, school boards, and municipal
education officials to (i) define school development plans aimed at improving performance and
effectiveness, especially in terms of enrollment, attendance and retention of students; (ii) develop grant
proposals; (iii) set targets for increasing access to schooling, improved attendance and attainment; and
(iv) help monitor enrollment, attendance and completion, as well as the implementation of the
school-based projects. The Bank has agreed that the technical assistance will be provided by the Kosovo
Education Center (KEC), which has successfully organized the pilot phase. The KEC outreach activities
will be cofinanced by the Kosovo Foundation of Open Society (KFOS). A detailed breakdown of
- 26 -



activities to be financed by KFOS and those to be financed under the IDA funding has been agreed.
Based on the training, school management, in close cooperttion with the school boards will be
responsible for (a) producing school development plans focusing on access and retention issues, (b)
developing grant proposals, and (c) directly managing the small grant contracts. Grant funding will be
based on activities detailed in School Development Plans (SDPs) and grant proposals that address both
pedagogical and material needs in the context of why children drop out, do not enroll, or do not attend
school. School boards and school management will consult with other interested stakeholders, where
appropriate, in the development of school plans and grant proposals.
The grant proposals will be developed on the basis of a School Grant Manual and a grant application
which were developed under the pilot phase of the project and further refined to suit the EPIP. The
School Grant Manual and the grant application have been updated taking into account the findings of the
pilot evaluation. Grant proposals will contain sections covering the objectives and rationale of the
proposal, the activities that are going to be undertaken to achieve the objectives, who will be responsible
for carrying out the activities, and a budget indicating what resources are needed. The basic aim is to
ensure that the proposal outlines priority projects within the School Development Plan that would
improve student enrollment, attendance and completion.
The School Grant Proposals (SGP) and the School Development Plans (SDPs) will be reviewed and
assessed by the respective MSGTs. These teams will determine whether or not the school proposals
cover the most significant access and retention problems experienced in the municipality, whether they
are realistic in terms of the capacity of the municipality, and whether they have appropriate school level
and municipal monitoring mechanisms. SGPs will either be referred back to the school with
recommendations for modification, or recommended for approval by the SGAB. MSGTs will consist of
three core members (the REO, MED and technical assistance NGO) and other members (e.g. local NGO
or women's groups etc.), by invitation of the core team, to assist in addressing specific issues in that
municipality.
Grant applications submitted by the schools and assessed by the MSGT will be forwarded for approval
by the central level SGAB. The approval board is chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MEST and
has the PMU Director as ex-officio member, includes three more representatives of the MEST and
representatives of the lead international donor agencies as well as of the local NGOs active in education.
The SGAB will approve criteria for preselection of schools, approve the school grants, and make
recommendations as to how to improve the school grant process. The board will also mediate conflicts, if
necessary, and will help monitor the success of the overall grants program. It is expected that about 50
schools will receive outreach support in each of three annual phases beginning with the first half of 2003.
The SGAB is, therefore, expected to evaluate about 150 grant proposals in each of the first two years of
the project. Table 1 shows the role and structure of various agencies in the school grant scheme at
different administrative levels.
- 27 -



Table 1. Kosovo School Development Grants: Level, lInstitution, Responsibilities, and Membership
Level               Institution        Responsibilities                    Members (nominated by)
Central              School            -   Oversees, monitors and advises on  MEST Permanent Secretary
Grants               the School Grants process.         (Minister of Education, MEST)
Approval          -Reviews and approves selection of    2 MEST senior officials
Board                schools for participation in the   (Permanent Secretary)
(SGAB)               Project in terms   of selection    I UNMIK international advisor
criteria.                          (PIO)
- Reviews     and     approves        PMU Director (ex officio)
recommendations from municipal     2 representatives of
school grant management teams on   international agencies (UNICEF
award of school grants             and KEDP 1/2 vote each)
- Receives and comments on regular    I representative of the Kosovo
Progress  Reports  prepared  by    Parents Council (KAPC)
PMU   for presentation at SGAB     The International Field
meetings                           Officer/Head of Communities
- Recommends       to    PMU          Division (PIO)
improvements or amendments to
procedures.
-- Advises MEST on policies that
target access and attainment
Project               Overall project management and     PMU Director
Management Unit    supervision                           Procurement specialist
(PMU)              -Secretariat to SGAB                  Education Specialist/Deputy
-Submits Progress Report to each      Director
SGAB Meeting                          Accountant/Financial
-Compiles School Grant Proposals wit  Management Specialist
ecommendations   from   MSGTs    fo  Translator/Procurement Assistant
submission to SGAB                    Office manager/administrative
-- Manages    grant   disbursement,   assistant
monitoring and reporting              Driver
-- Administers procurement and take
overall responsibility for supervision o
procurement at the municipal and schoo
level under the school grant component
Municipal           Municipal           - Identify project schools according  Core Members:
School  Grants        to approved Selection Cnteria      Municipal Education Director
Management          -  Receive School Grant Proposals    (MED)
Team (MSGT)            and assess in terms of approved   Regional Education Officer
assessment cnteria                (REO)
-   Forward Grant Proposals with     Capacity-Building NGO (by
assessments and recommendations   NGO/ROSO)
to SGAB via PMU
-  Refer back to schools and         In consultation with (by
Capacity-Building NGO Grant       invitation):
Proposals that do not meet        Local PTC/PTA (where existing)
assessment cntena                 Director of Centre for Social
-  Monitor implementation of school  Welfare
grants and training and outreach  Local Handikos Office (where
provided by Capacity-Building     existing)
NGO.                              Other local stakeholders
- Refer problems, quenes or
- 28 -



recommendations to PMU.
-- Under supervision and guidance
from the PMU, carry out -
procurement under School Grants
component up to the thresholds
agreed with IDA and spelled out in
the School Grants Manual
School              School Board       -- Participates in capacity-buildmg for  As provided in General
school development planning     Education Law):
provided by Capacity-Building NGO  Parents (elected)
Teachers (elected)
-Prepares SDPs and SG Proposals   Students (secondary school -
-Approves and sign SG Proposals,  elected)
and submit to MED/REO            Secretariat (School Director)
- Implements approved projects in
line with contract and according to
the School Grant Manual
- Prepares School Grant Completion
Reports
-- Administers small value
procurement up to the thresholds
agreed with IDA and stipulated in
the School Grant Manual
School Director     - Serves as Secretanat of the School  School Director
Board.                           Secretary/Book keeper (assigned
-  Prepares SDP in consultation   by School Board)
with School Board and submits to
School Board for approval.
- Manages implementation of
approved projects in accordance
with the School Grant Agreement,
and in consultation with School
Board.
-- Is responsible for reporting
expenditures for school grant
activities.
Operational Procedures
The school grant proposal and standard covering letter of application will be signed by both the school
board and the MSGT before submission to the SGAB. The criteria that the board will use to evaluate the
grant proposals are defined in the School Grant Manual.
The School Grant Manual (SGM) provides schools with a proposal structure, additional guidelines with
respect to the nature of the proposed school activities, and formats for reporting on the implementation of
the school grants project. This list of proposed activities is not mandatory, but serve as guidelines for
schools in terms of what may be most helpful to consider in improving access and retention. These
activities could include improvement in the learning environment, in-service training for staff, new or
improved equipment and instructional materials, and new educational or extra-curricular services. Some
provisions could also be made to assist families for which out-of-pocket payments create an obstacle to
participation in the system. These investments would include assistance for transportation, school lunch
or personal learming materials (books, pens, notebooks, etc.), or minor repairs in the infrastructure.
- 29 -



Schools will be required, as a condition for receiving a grant, to agree to participate in extemal
evaluation, as well as to conduct internal self-evaluation of their grant projects. In addition to monitoring
the effectiveness of school-based project implementation, schools and municipalities will monitor the
changes in the targeted indicators of enrollment, attendance, and completion. Municipalities will provide
the data gathered to the central Education Management Information System (EMIS).
A grant agreement or contract will be signed with each school which is awarded a grant indicating the
amount of funds available and allowable usage of funds. Only small procurement packages of equipment
and materials will take place under the grants. Such procurement will be undertaken by the schools
themselves, based on community-based procurement procedures which are outlined in the School Grant
Manual. Community-based procurement procedures will call for three quotations, where feasible, for all
procured goods, services and works and, in justified cases, direct contracting.
The primary responsibility for implementation of the grants rests with the schools under the direction of
the School Director, with the oversight of the School Boards. Arrangements for interested stakeholders
(parents, local businesses, NGOs, etc) to participate in the oversight of the grants will be encouraged.
Sufficient advisory and technical support to the schools will be arranged via the outreach technical
assistance through the contract with KEC, co-funded by the Soros Foundation.
Schools will receive disbursements on the basis of due diligence procedure outlined in the Project Flow
of Funds in the Project Operating Manual (POM). The evaluation and selection process for grants will
be monitored by the Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU will ensure that established criteria are
applied by MSGTs and reviewed and approved by the School Grants Approval Board. The SGAB will
also select a random sample of projects to review in detail in each round to verify that criteria and
procedures are being applied.
The Bank and the PMU will ensure that grant recipients understand procedures for contracting. For this
purpose, the Bank and the PMU will review the first set of awarded contracts. Furthermore, grant
recipients will continue to be monitored following the award of contracts on a sample basis to ensure
compliance with procurement and disbursement procedures as per School Grant Manual. Random
special purpose audit of school grants will be carried on a yearly basis to ensure that the school grants are
being used for the purposes intended.
An evaluation of the first two phases of school grants will be carried out in early 2004 to ensure that
progress is being made in accordance with school development plans and the grant proposals. Schools
receiving grants will provide a self-evaluation report about project activities and progress made in
relation to school development plans, as well as provide specific details on enrollment, attendance,
retention, and completion data. The respective municipal MSGTs will also evaluate the schools'
self-evaluation reports and prepare a consolidated report on the outcomes of the activities of the first two
phases. The consolidated reports will be sent to the PMU for final scrutiny and preparation of a
summary. The PMU will submit the summary report to the SGAB and to IDA. This process will be
repeated in the form for a final evaluation of the SDG process following completion of the project. See
the summary of operational procedures in Table 2.
- 30 -



Table 2. Summary of Operational Responsibilities
-Sub-Components                Activities            Responsibility  In Consultation with      Output
1.1 Establishing     1.1.1 Define roles and         Project          MEST, UNMIK          List of SGAB roles
institutional        responsibilities of the SGAB.  Preparation                           and responsibilities
framework and                                        Team, PMU
design for school
development grants
1.1.2 Identify membership of   Project          MEST, UNMIK          List of SGAB roles
SGAB                           Preparation                           and responsibilities
Team, PMU
1.1 3 Convene SGAB to define   PMU              MEST, UNMIK          Timetable for
timelines for school development                                     school grants
grants proposals receipt and                                         proposals
approval process
1.1.4 Develop criteria for     PMU             MEST                  Distnbution criteria
allocation of grant funds across
municipalities.
1 1.5 Revise School grant      PMtl             Project              --Revised school
manual and design advisory                      preparation team,    grant manual
services.                                       Local TA             --List of advisory
services
1.1.6 SGAB review of school    SGAB, PMU                             --Approval of
grant manual                                                         school grant
manual
1.1.7 Prepare draft training   PMU              KEC (TA)             Draft training
material for capacity building by                                    materials
NGOs.
1.1.8 Mount public information  PMU             WB-TTL               Public information
campaign for school grant                                            campaign
component
1 2 Selection of     1.2.1 Distribute School Grant  PMLt             MEDs, REOs,          Bnefing letters
schools              Manuals, preselection criteria,                  NGOs                 and/or meetings
with municipal allocation
ceilings and relevant EMIS data
to MEDs, REOs and NGOs
1.2.2 Using EMIS data, other   MEr) with REO   NGO, relevant         List of preselected
data and local knowledge                        Community             schools
identify schools in greatest need              interests (PTC,
of support using the criteria                   SW, Handikos,
provided in the School Grant                    etc.)
Manual, and invite School
Directors concerned to apply to
NGO for capacity-building
1.3 Training and     1 3.1 Arrange capacity-building  NGOs           MED, REO,            Draft SDPs and
School               workshops and outreach targeted                  Community            SGPs for each
Development          support for preselected schools                  interests (PTC,      school
Planning and        to assist in, (a) Election of                     SW, Handikos,
Proposal Writing     School Boards (where                             etc.)
Process              necessary); (b) Development of
School Development Plans
(SDPs); (c) Preparation of
- 31 -



School Grant Proposals.
1.3 2 Articulate a vision and  Selected schools  NGOs             -- School grant
long-term program for school  - School                            proposal
development, improving access  Director, School                   -- School
to schooling, promoting       Board                                Development Plan
attendance, ensuring completion                                    - Application for
of schooling, and improving                                       grant
quality of teaching and learning;
1.3.3 Prioritize problem areas
and plans for solutions.
1.3.4 Outline plans for
self-evaluation, to establish a
modus operandi for school level
monitoring of quality, attendance
and attainment, incorporating
school self-evaluation and
effectiveness critena
1.3.5 School Boards approve   School Director  School Board,       Signed School
and submit School Grant                       NGO                  Grant Proposals
Proposals (with SDP annex) to
MEDs, REO, copied to NGOs
for review.
1.3.6 MED/REO/KEC jointly     MED/REO/KEC                          School grant
review School grant proposals  (MSGT)                              proposals with
and forward, within 7 days, to                                     municipal level
School Grants Approval Board                                      recommendations
(SGAB) with recommendations
via PMU (as secretariat)
1.4 Grant Approval   1.4.1 PMU (as SGAB secretariat)  PMU           Chair, SGAB        Meeting of
receives School grant proposals                                   SGAB
from MED/REOs and, in
consultation with Chair, convenes
meeting of SGAB.
1.4.2 SGAB reviews School     SGAB                                 List of approved
grant proposals against                                            school grant
established criteria, and either                                   proposals
approves or refers back to
School Board, copied to relevant
NGO, MED.
1.4.3 PMU Director signs      PMU                                  Signed contracts
contracts for each approved                                        and authorization
school grant proposal, and                                         for release of funds
forwards for release of first
tranche (see Flow of Funds in the
School Grant Manual (Vol. 11 of
POM) and the Project Operating
Manual (Vol. 1)).
1.4.4 Schools sign contract and  School Director,                  Signed contract
receive authonzation to use grant  School Board
funding from MSGT.            representative
1.5 Implementation  1.5.1 School Boards implement  School Board    NGO
and Monitoring      school grant projects as per
contracts.
1.5.2 NGOs provide outreach   NGOs             MED                 Progress reports
- 32 -



support and guidance.                          l
1.5.3 Implementation reports   School Board                          First tranche
and first tranche results (in terms                                  implementation
of improved access and                                               reports
attendance) of school grant
activities from first tranche
recipients for SGAB review
1.5.4 NGOs audit and control   PMU                                   Report on findings
accounts and project
accomplishments before
disbursement of the grant's
second tranche, under PMU and
coordinating Agency
supervision, in coordination with
the Central Fiscal Authority (see
flow of funds in the POM).
1 5.5 PMU and coordinating     PMU and          MEST                 Supervision and
Agency monitor and control the  Coordinating                          coordination of
whole project cycle             Agency                               school grant
implementation by NGOs and                                           project support
other actors.
1.5.6  School Boards prepare   School Board     NGO                  Project Completion
self-evaluation or Project                                            Reports or
Completion Reports-first                                              self-evaluation
tranche results (in terms of
improved access and attendance)
for submission to MED, REO.
1.5.7 MED, REO review school   MED, REO                              Municipal level
self-evaluation reports and                                           summary report
prepare summary for
mumcipality for submission with
recommendations to SGAB via
PMU.
1 5.8 SGAB evaluates and       PMU, SGAB                             Approval of
approves self-evaluation/                                            second tranche
implementation report summary of
first tranche results for release of
second tranche.
1.5.9 PMU submits periodic     PMU, SGAB                             Oversight, Advice,
progress reports to SGAB                                              and Monitoring
SGAB reviews Progress Reports
and makes recommendations to
MEST and PMU for
modifications to improve project
performance; SGAB advises
MEST on policies that target
access and attainment
MEST-Ministry of Education, Science and Technology; PMU--Project Management Unit;
NGO--Non-government Organization; MED-Municipal Education Director; REQ-Regional Education
Officer; SGAB-School Grants Approval Board; PTC-Parent Teacher Councils; TORs-Terms of
reference; WB-TTL-World Bank Task Team Leader.
- 33 -



Project Component 2 - US$0.30 million
Improving the Education Management Information System.
The objective of this component is to help strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the EMIS which
was designed and began implementation under the ongoing Education and Health Project.
Beginning in 2000, a database was designed for Kosovo's new education system that included modules
on education statistics, personal and payroll. A procedure was developed, and included in the Municipal
Education Governance Handbook, for biannual (September and April) updating of the database by the
schools and municipalities. Training was also provided to municipal officials and school directors both
on the mechanics of providing and entering the information and on the use of education data in
management and decision making. The database initially included data from the 2000-2001 school year
and has been updated for the 2001-2002 and 2002-2003 school years. In addition to providing
stakeholders and donors with detailed information on the Kosovo school system, student data from the
EMIS is used to drive the allocation of funding to the municipalities in Kosovo's using the formula
funding mechanism. Following delays with contracting, dedicated software has been designed by a local
company, and the database is currently being transferred from Excel to the new software, which will be
made available at the municipal and central levels.
Despite this progress, the sustainability of the system and its pay off in terms of using information to
monitor system progress and performance is not assured. Local consultants who, together with
international technical assistance, designed and updated the database and provided training to local
authorities on system operation have proven unwilling to accept positions at low public sector salary
levels in the newly created Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. The new ministry will
require additional support to maintain, update, and expand the new software in the coming years. In
addition, the new ministry will require support for better performance monitoring and for communicating
systemic issues and analysis back to lower administrative levels and education stakeholders. Given the
goals of the Education Participation Improvement Project (EPIP), further investment in the EMIS will
focus principally on developing, maintaining and communicating access, attainment and retention
indicators, such as enrollment, attendance, repetition, dropout and completion rates. Bringing student
performance data such as assessment results into the EMIS is a medium term goal that will not be
addressed directly in this project.
In view of the difficulty encountered during implementation of the first project in hiring qualified staff in
the MEST, the MEST has decided to enter into an outsourcing arrangement, to be financed initially under
the project with a local information technology firm. Under terms of reference finalised at appraisal, the
local firm will be contracted to provide the MEST with the equivalent of two full-time staff per year who
would be responsible for two EMIS updates per year, the production of local and English languages
reporting on system performance to be shared with municipalities, and the training of staff at the central
MEST and in municipalities on technical manipulation of the system. Technical assistance will also be
provided in the first year to support the roll out of EMIS software and required training. The outsourcing
arrangement is expected to cost the MEST approximately US$ 20,000 per year to be financed from this
grant on a declining basis. A contractor will be selected on in competitive basis.
In addition to the outsourcing arrangement, the project will finance the services of an individual
intemational consultant who will make periodic visits to Kosovo to (a) assist with initial supervision of
the outsourcing contract, (b) participate in training design and delivery for both the MEST and
municipalities, and (c) assist the MEST to undertake analysis based on EMIS data and indicators and to
produce reports for system stakeholders and donors. As mentioned above, special focus will be given to
- 34 -



access, attainment and retention indicators in the Ministry's EMIS reporting. A terns of reference will be
reviewed at appraisal. The Ministry will assign a staff member who will be principally responsible for
managing the outsourcing contract, as well as be the primary counterpart of the international technical
assistant. The responsible MEST staff will be expected to have an education policy background (or be
willing to be trained), and not an IT background. External training will also be included under the
project. A terms of reference for this assignment will be reviewed at appraisal. Limited equipment and
furniture will be included under the component for a central MEST office and to upgrade municipal
education offices.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.51 million
Strengthening Project Management
The objective of this component is the effective implementation, monitonng and evaluation of the
proposed project. The Project Management Unit (PMU) that has been established under the ongoing
Kosovo Health and Education Project will assume administration and implementation responsibilities for
the proposed project. The PMU will report to the Principal International Officer (PIO, UNMIK) and the
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST). The contracts of the
PMU staff will be extended under the new project. In addition to supporting project implementation in
cooperation with UNMIK authorities responsible for financial management and procurement, the PMU
will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of results under the school development grants
component..
The PMU will be primanly responsible for organizing and coordinating all school grant activities
including authorizing grant payments, guiding technical assistance, managing the school development
teams, and publicizing the grants component. It will also oversee the EMIS implementation and, as
during the implementation of the ongoing project, will make sure that the reports of the EMIS system are
regularly published and distributed.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will include the followving staff: (a) PMU Director; (b)
Procurement specialist; (c) Education Specialist/Deputy Director; (d) Accountant/Financial Management
Specialist; (e) Translator/Procurement Assistant; (f) Translator/Procurement Assistant; (g) Office
manager/administrative assistant; (h) A driver. All PMU staff will be hired on a consultancy basis. The
Deputy Director for the ongoing project will assume the position of the Director, PMU during EPIP
preparation and during the first months following project effectiveness (until June 30, 2003). Under the
Director's supervision, a Deputy Director will be hired. S/he will assume the responsibilities as PMU
Manager after June 30, 2003, when the ongoing project is expected to close. The Deputy Director will be
in charge of the preparation of the SDG component and will be trained on-the-job in IDA project
implementation and procurement procedures by the staff of the ongoing project. The terms of reference
for the Director's position have been approved and the selection process has commenced. A Deputy
Director will be selected by a Committee including the Minister, the Permanent Secretary and the
Pnncipal International Officer. Other PMU staff will be hired prior to Project effectiveness.
The Grant will finance PMU office rent throughout project implementation, operating costs of the PMU,
and an additional vehicle to be used by the PMU during project implementation.
The PMU staff will coordinate efforts to complete a Project Operating Manual, which will be developed
by Ministry and PMU staff and local experts. The POM will address the roles, responsibilities,
accountabilities, and reporting requirements of various parties--municipalities, municipal level selection
committees, school directors, and school boards.
- 35 -



Appendix 1. Institutional Assessment
1.     PURPOSE
The purpose of this assessment is to establish the extent to which the institutional capacity in
Kosovo will be able to support implementation of the EPIP project, and to make recommendations
on how any shortcomings might be addressed. This assessment does not focus on financial
management or procurement capacity as this is dealt with elsewhere in the PAD.
2.     METHODOLOGY
The assessment is based on interviews conducted during the mission with key stakeholders at central,
municipal and school level, and on documents and reports made available during the mission.
3.     COMPONENTS FOR ASSESSMENT
The central thrust of the project is the disbursement of small grants to schools that have prepared
approved (three-year) School Development Plans and (one - two-year) Project Proposals. This will be
the major focus of this assessment.
A second component of the project is the strengthening of the Education Management Information
System (EMIS) that was developed with Bank support under the present Education and Health Project.
Effective implementation and monitoring of the school grants scheme will require the EMIS system to
deliver timely and reliable management information.
The third component of the project is the strengthening of the existing Project Management Unit into a
Project Management Unit to ensure that it has the capacity to ensure effective implementation of the
project, including the coordination, monitoring and reporting requirements.
4.     INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
4.1    System levels
The implementation and monitoring of the project will require institutional mechanisms at three levels of
the system: at the school level, where the resources will be applied, at the municipal level, where key
targeting, coordination and monitonng functions are located, and at the central level, which will manage
the grant approvals process, disbursement of grants, and coordination and reporting.
4.2    Public and private sectors
The project operates through the public education system, and is designed to build on and reinforce the
system reforms, especially decentralization and management capacity-building, that were established in
the current Education and Health Project. The main institutional functions, therefore, are based at each
level in public sector institutions. However, as with the current project, a certain amount of the
institutional capacity-building activities will be provided through NGOs and the private sector, with
support from international expertise where required.
4.3    Institutional Elements
The review assesses institutional capacity in terms of institutional structure (including policies,
- 36 -



procedures and manuals), human resources, and information capacity.
5.     CENTRAL LEVEL INSTITUTIONS
The role of central government institutions in the implementation of the project is limited by the fact that
most of the activities and expenditure of funds occurs at the level of the school.
5.1    Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
The Ministry of Education Science and Technology (MEST) supported by the Principal International
Officer appointed by UNMIK will be responsible for overall oversight of the Project. In terms of human
resources, the newly established Ministry of Education, Science and Technology has limited institutional
capacity to take on additional tasks related to the project. Newly appointed senior staff (including
Permanent Secretary and Head of Education) are still settling into their posts, and the process of
hand-over of responsibility from the international staff is still under way.
Recommendation
The proposed School Grants Approval Board should be established to meet this institutional capacity
limitation. The PAD makes provision for this body and describes its constitution and function.
In terms of institutional structure, the obvious unit for locating responsibility for implementation,
monitoring and supervision is the existing Project Management Unit. Assessment of the capacity of the
PMU indicates that with minor modifications, including strengthening of the procurement and financial
management capacity, it should be able to meet the demands of management of this project..
Recommendation
The existing Project Coordination Unit, operating within the MEST, should be developed and
expanded into a Project Management Unit as provided for in the Institutional Arrangements section
of the PAD.
The policy framework for financial delegation to municipalities and schools is well established and is
supported by concise and helpful Manuals developed during the first project. Since the project operates
within the provisions of the new policy and is in line with the General Education Law, it does not require
modifications of existing policy. However, since the implementation of the EPIP will require the
involvement of a range of inexperienced officials and some personnel not in MEST, there is a need for an
operations manual that provides clear guidance on implementation, and relates it where appropriate to
existing policy and regulations.
Recommendation
The Project Operating Manual currently under development be finalized and reviewed in good time to
ensure that it is available to provide the necessary guidance.
In terms of information and system resources, the project will depend for targeting, management and
monitoring on information from the Education Management Information System, which was established
as part of the current project. While the EMIS has reached a fairly advanced stage, it will not be able to
meet the information requirements of the project without further development, consolidation, transfer
from spreadsheet to database format, and additional arrangements to ensure that the necessary skilled
- 37 -



technical personnel can be drawn on to ensure that the EMIS develops at the pace needed to deliver
information for the project.
Recommendation
The second component of the project makes provision for the further development and refinement of
the EMIS, and this process should be expedited. The technical aspects of development of the EMIS
should be contracted out as the salary limitations in the public service make it difficult to retain the
services of skilled computer personneL Contracting out will also provide some flexibility with regard to
accessing technical skills as and when needed, instead of on an ongoing full-time basis. OveraUl
responsibility for the EMIS, and ownership of the data, should remain in MEST.
6.     MUNICIPAL LEVEL ENSTITUTIONS
The decentralization reforms supported by the Bank provide for substantial decentralization of
responsibilities, especially in terms of financial management. The existing School Funding Handbook
supported by ongoing training will help to build and consolidate capacity at this level. Interviews with
MEST and UNMIK financial managers indicate that many municipalities are still not managing to spend
the resources assigned to them. Other reports indicate that some schools may not be receiving their share
of the per capita grant from municipal education authonties. The project does not envisage the
involvement of the municipal authorities in direct disbursement of school funds, although they will have
a role in momtoring and reporting on expenditure of grants.
The "two level system" whereby certain functions are delegated to the Municipal Director (MED), and
others remain the responsibility of the Regional Education Officer (REO), is operating unevenly. In some
municipalities lack of cooperation between these officials could present problems to the implementation.
The municipalities have a key role in implementing the targeting strategy according to the criteria
approved by the School Grants Approval Board.
Recommendation
Small Municipal School Grant Management Teams, consisting of the MED, the REO and a
representative of the NGO responsible for capacity-building and outreach in that municipality be
established as providedfor in this PAD. Part of the Terms of Reference for Capacity-Building NGOs
should be to participate in these teams, and to identify and alert the PMU to problems that might arise
from limited or poor collaboration between MED and REO. These teams should also review School
Development Plans and School Grant Project Proposals before they are submitted to SGAB for
approval.
7.     SCHOOL LEVEL [NSTTITUTIONS
The most significant institutional demands for the implementation of the School Grants component fall at
the level of the school. The pnncipal institutional structure involved is the School Board, which includes
representatives of teachers, parents, and in the case of secondary schools, of students. The school director
serves as secretariat ex officio.
The School Board is a new institution and very few have been established, so it is difficult to establish
the possible problems they may confront. The new General Education Law provides a policy framework
that consolidates several official circulars and official instructions issued by the Department of Education
and Science. There exists no manual for operation of School Boards, although the Kosovo School
- 38 -



Funding Handbook provides some guidance.
There is some history in the parallel system (1990 - 1999) oi school committees that played a significant
role in mobilizing resources for schools; these were similar in constitution and function to school
committees that operated in schools under the authority of the (Serb) provincial authorities. In addition,
since 1999 there is a wide range of different school level structures established with the support of
various NGOs, including PTAs and Parent Teacher Councils (PTCs). The latter operate at both school
and municipal level with support from Catholic Relief Services (CRS). Thus many communities claim to
have experience and background in supporting or participating in school management, and mobilizing
and administering resources.
However, while there may be some experience to build on, there is no experience of constituting and
managing school level goveming bodies of the type provided for in the School Board regulations, and
early indications from the Pilot Project are that considerable amount of support, in the form of training,
procedures manuals and follow-up will be required. This would normally be a function of the MEST, but
it is unlikely that this kind of support will be available in time for implementation of the project.
Recommendation
It is recommended that the School Grant Manual currently under development in the Pilot Project be
modified and updated in light of experience gained. The current draft Manual serves as both a
procedures manual and as a training resource. On the basis of the experience in the Pilot, a decision
will have to be made on whether this guidance would be better provided in theform of one manual or
separate manuals.
It is recommended that the proposed capacity-buildingfunction include guidance to school Directors
in the establishment of School Boards, as well as intensive training of schoolpersonnel and School
Board members in School Development Planning, project proposalpreparation andproject
implementation. The capacity buildingfunction must includefollow-up outreach to schools.
8.     NGO AND PRIVATE SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
Kosovo has a strong, if short, history of NGO activity. The current decline in international funding has
led to many intemational NGOs withdrawing or scaling back activities, and many local NGOs are
struggling to survive. There is thus a surplus of NGO capacity in terms of human resources, and, given
the right stimulus, it is clear that several NGOs could quite quickly scale up their institutional capacity to
provide services for the Project. The project design envisages NGOs provision of the capacity-building
including school outreach and follow-up that will be required for School Boards to ensure delivery of
School Development Plans and School Grant Project Proposals.
However, while the capacity exists and could quickly be mobilized, there are very few NGOs with
coverage throughout Kosovo. Many NGOs did operate on a regional basis based on the five UNMIK
regions. Thus the project design assumes that a number of NGOs will be contracted to provide services to
schools in municipalities grouped on a geographic basis. Possible problems could anse in coordination of
a number of contracting NGOs, and mechanisms must be in place to ensure that they operate within a
coherent and consistent framework, while giving them the flexibility to adapt according to circumstances.
Recommendation
It is recommended that the TORsfor the Capacity-Building NGOs specify quiteprecisely the
- 39 -



institutional capacity and performance requirements. If this function is provided through partnership
with KFOS, then this provision must be made clear in the memorandum of understanding. In
addition, the Project Operating Manual must make very clear these requirements, and the Project
Management Unit must be vigilant in ensuring that the capacity-building service is being provided on
a coherent and consistent basis.
The contracting out of the technical aspects of the EMIS development and maintenance to a local
consultant will draw on private sector capacity. This assessment did not involve any examination of the
capacity in the private sector, but the demands of this contract, are quite limited, and it is not envisaged
that there will be senous constraints provided that the services are paid for at market related rates, which
cannot be done while the function is performed by personnel in MEST.
9.     CONCLUSION
The EPIP project was designed to make minimal demands on the severely constrained institutional
capacity of the central and provincial education authorities, and draws heavily on capacity, much of
which needs to be developed, at the school level. It is, therefore, appropriate that significant resources are
targeted at institutional capacity-building at the school level.
The Project builds significantly on the institutional capacity developed through the support of the current
Education and Health Project, especially the financial decentralization to municipalities and schools, the
management development programs and the information management system. The Project Management
Unit has demonstrated consistently high institutional capacity and has a good record of implementation
effectiveness, and this also constitutes a significant institutional asset for the project to build on.
As far as possible the project makes use of existing institutional capacity and mechanisms, especially
with regard to financial management, project management and grant disbursement, but effective
implementation of the project will require the creation of a high level board (SGAB) at the central level,
and small Project Management Teams at the municipal level. The School Boards, which are established
in terms of the new legislation/regulation, are not project institutions, but they are new institutions and it
is unlikely that MEST will be able to support the establishment and quick capacity-building. It will,
therefore, be necessary for the project to commit significant resources to building the capacity of these
key institutions in the project schools.
- 40 -



,Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
'~~~'. - '.' Pt,B .,C mponent'>' ;;      ~$dlr* .', ,,-'io. -R 
I. School Development Grants (SDGs)                     0.00         3.79         3.79
2. Education Management Informnation System             0.00         0.30         0.30
3. Project Management                                   0.00         0.51        0.51
Total Baseline Cost                                     0.00         4.60         4.60
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'            0.00         4.60         4.60
Total Financing Required             0.00         4.60        4.60
tB'Ctor --. s -<A   s -  '                    -    lg
-   ~ ~ ~ ~~.        ~~~~~ ~~~US--$'illioh, EUP;$rii fi6i1~ US.$nfli
Goods                                                     0.00         0.16         0.16
Works                                                     0.00         0.00         0.00
Services                                                  0.00         0.65         0.65
Training                                                  0.00         0.00         0.00
School Grants                                             0.00         3.38         3.38
Incremental Operating Costs                               0.00         0.41         0.41
Total Project Costs     0.00          4.60         4.60
Total Financing Required     0.00         4.60         4.60
** Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 4.6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 0% of
total projeLt cost net of taxes
- 41 -



Annex 4: Economic and Fiscal Impact Analysis
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Introduction
The objective of the proposed Project is to improve children's access and educational attainment at
primary and secondary education levels. The Transitional Support Strategy emphasizes the importance
of increasing enrollment rates in primary and secondary education, and enhancing access of girls and
vulnerable groups to education. The proposed Education Participation Improvement Project (US$ 4.6
million) operationalizes the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) with the explicit objective of improving
access and attainment levels. As the project costs are only US$4.6 million, the proposed Project will
focus almost exclusively on the broadly defined issues related to attainment and access to education.
A.     Economic Analysis
Rate of Return Analysis
Results from global research on rates of return to investment in education indicate that, in general, the
highest social and private returns are to be found at the primary level. Both social and private returns fall
at the secondary level, and private returns rise again at the higher education level while social returns
declines further. Reasons attributable to this are that primary education is relatively cheap to provide and
that the opportunity cost of young children attending school is relatively low.
Results from comparative research show that the level of economic development greatly influences the
rates of return from expanding educational coverage. They show that low-income countries benefit most
from investments to expand primary education, while in middle-income countnes, investments to expand
secondary education brought the highest social returns.
Cost-Benefit Framework
Cost-benefit analysis of any project must be based on a comparison of the with-project and
without-project comparison.
Without the project, the status quo of schools in Kosovo would be maintained without school based
initiatives to improve enrollment, attendance, attainment, and completion. Meanwhile, there are
indications that schools have significant problems in these areas, even though they don't have the
capacity nor the incentive to deal with them. In addition, given the recent introduction of 9th grade,
schools are expected to have increasing challenges regarding the successful completion of primary
education. These challenges will also be accompanied by absence of methods to account for school age
children, absence of processes and incentives to motivate communities and schools to keep them or bring
them back to school.
With the project, both the Government and the schools will have improved capacities, model incentives
to initiate school-based activies or to develop government policies to improve access and attainment in
education. The improved local capacities will help assure that communities focus on absenteeism,
school effectiveness (in terms of coverage) and, eventually, the overall strength of the local communities
human capital and employment prospects. There will also be a balanced and concerted effort (as well as
capacities) by central and local authorities to assure that education is provided to all.
- 42 -



The primary quantifiable benefit of the project is expected to be increased number of students being
enrolled in schools, greater numbers attending school regularly, more students completing the primary
and secondary cycles of education as a result of improvements in overall safety measures, rehabilitation
of schools, improved heating and protection from climatic changes especially during the winter months
which will be supported through the school development grants. While the project will have a direct
quantifiable impact on the targeted schools, the impact on the overall school system will be more limited.
If, for instance, the completion rate from 8th grade will improve by 4 percent, that would mean an overall
improvement of roughly 2 percent on the whole province. In terms of attainment, or the average number
of years completed, the quantiative improvement will be even more limited. In addition, there are a
number of targets, for which an initial baseline data need to be established to show improvements. These
include the enrollment of those who have not been participating in public education, the attendance rate
or the participation rate of eligible students in 9th grade education. These will require significant initial
works so that quantitative targets were to be set.
Meanwhile, the School Development Grants (SDGs) and the Education Management Information System
(EMIS) components will contribute to significant social benefits and institutoinal improvements, which
are expected to far outweigh the quantifiable benefits. Large externalities are attributable to the SDGs
and EMIS components. The Project will focus on school improvement, social inclusion, community
efficiency, and peace building in a post war environment. The school grants are expected to improve
efficiency of resource use in primary and secondary schools by strengthening local capacity, and by
financing essential inputs not currently financed by municipal budgets.
The SDGs will help schools to: (a) Build on and reinforce decentralization of school management; (b)
Build capacity at local levels to develop a vision and work on school development plans; (d) Identify
priorities areas that need attention-be it pedagogical improvements, infrastructure improvements,
training of teachers and other quality oriented changes focused on bringing children who are at risk of
being excluded or not completing primary or secondary education, back to school; (e) Promote increased
flexibility and responsiveness of schools to the pressing issues of communities with respect to sending
children to school; (f) Procurement and financial management training; and (g) add SDGs to the student
funding formula, introduce more flexibility, better model for spending and accounting for funds,
experiment with new policy, compensatory financing or more resources.
The SDG process will help communities to: (a) Increase their participation in the decision-making
process at the school level through School Boards thereby empowering them;
The SDG process will help municipal level decision-makers to: (a) Perform their roles and
responsibilities more responsibly by holding them accountable for selecting and distributing school
grants to the most needy schools; (b) Be conscious of fiscal responsibility; provide guidelines for
municipalities on how to allocate resources.
The SDG process will help central level authorities to: (a) Monitor the education system better with the
use of the Education Management Information System (EMIS); and (b) Have better oversight over the
distribution of funding for education.
- 43 -



SDGs are not costly to administer. Significant capacity is expected to be built at all levels of the
system-school level, municipal level, and central level to manage the education system, and introduce
reforms aimed at improving enrollment, attendance, attainment, and completion in primary and
secondary education. The investment in capacity building is expected to improve efficiency within
institutions. The SDG process will, therefore, contribute to increased autonomy and accountability of
institutions, in planning, management and resource allocation. These benefits are process related are
quantified below. The SDGs will introduce flexibility into the system, for schools and communities to
define priority areas for development of schools.
B.     Fiscal Impact Analysis
Education as a percentage of GDP was estimated to be 3.7 percent in 2002, and 19.8 percent as a
percentage of the general budget for Kosovo. Although the share of education in the GDP is low relative
to comparable countries or regions in Europe, and even in Central and Eastem Europe, education as a
percentage of the general budget of Kosovo is high. Table 1 provides data on the actual education budget
by level of education for the years 2000, 2001, and the estimated budget for 2002.
Table 1. Education Budget by Level of Education
2000                  2001                2002
Program
Actual      Percent    Actual     Percent    Actual      Percent
('000 Euros)          ('000 Euros)          ('000 Euros)
Preschool Education *              1,307 6      2.3%      2,298.0    3.8%       3,232 8      4.4%
Primary Education *               36,870.2     64.9%     37,684.    62.8%      45,080.1     60.8%
Secondary Education *             11,315.2     19.9%      12,258.7  20.3%      13,427.4     18.1%
Boarding Facilities/Dormitory        157 7      0.3%        254.0    0.4%         124.1      0.2%
Special Needs Education institutions  641.5     1.1%        469.0    0.8%         815.5      1.1%
University and Higher Education    6,154.9     10.8%       6,395.   10.6%       9,890.9     13.3%
National University Library          139.5      0.2%        242.0    0.4%         265.4      0.4%
Educational Administration          251.2       0.4%        732.0    1.2%       1,012.0      1.4%
Teacher Training                       ..         .           ..       ..         191.7      0.3%
Currculum Development                  ..        ..          ..        ..          65.0      0.1%
Total Budget for Education        56,837.9    100.0%      60,332.7  100.0%     74,105.0    100.0%
Total General Budget             220,264.5               255,646.0            374,100.0
Education as a percentage of total  25.8%                  23.60/                19.8%
budget
Estimated Kosovo GDP             1,414,000               1,756,00             1,984,000
Education as a percentage of GDP    4.0%                    3.4%                  3.7%
Sources Kosovo: Medium Term Expenditure Review, October 2002, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
CFA Kosovo Budget 2001, Kosovo Budget 2002, Education Funding Formula.
a Preschool, pnmary and secondary includes funds spent by Municipalities.
Significant donor funding was provided over the three year period 1999, 2000, and 2001. The funding
has been channeled mainly for reconstruction and rehabilitation of school buildings, with significant
amounts to compensate for the lack of investment and maintenance over the past decade, and to fully
rebuild or rehabilitate infrastructure damaged during the 1999 crisis. Table 2 provides the breakdown.
- 44 -



Table 2. Donor funding for the education sector ('000 Euro)
1999             2000          2001          Total
Building, reconstruction and            5,526.5      37,478.2      11,400.6       54,405.3
rehabilitation
Other *                                   120.2       4,021.7       2,152.5        6,294.4
Total donor funds                       5,646.6      41,499.9      13,553.2       60,699.7
Relative to public spending on             n.a.          73%          23%
education
Relative to estimated GDP                  n.a.           3%           1% I
Sources: Kosovo Medium Term Expenditure Priorities, October 2002, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Ministry of Finance and Economy, RIMS - amounts spent
Kosovo: Medium Term Expenditure Review, October 2002, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Ministry of Finance and Economy, RIMS - amounts spent.
* Other category includes some minor reconstruction projects.
Since 2001 and from 2002 onwards, donor funding for education is expected to decline sharply. In 2002
donor assistance is expected to be channeled towards quality issues rather than on infrastructure
rehabilitation or on maintenance.
Education is under funded considering that the student age share of the population is the highest in
Europe. In EU, average spending is about 5.3 percent of the per capita GDP. In Kosovo's consolidated
recurrent budget education is by far the largest category with 27.5 percent of the total. Personnel
expenditure accounts for about 80 percent of the budget. T he Kosovo Poverty Assessment of 2001
shows that public expenditures are regressive given the strong correlation between poverty and utilization
of education services particularly at secondary level. By and large, efficiency indicators are comparable
to European averages with a 19:1 pupil-teacher ratio at both primary and secondary levels, and with
minimal administrative overhead in 2001.
Wages and salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff accounted for approximately 68 percent of the
general budget in 2002 (About 16% of wages and salary payments go for non-teaching staff). This is by
and large in line with other European countries. The share of wages have also considerably decreased
over the last three years. Table 3 provides the estimated education expenditure by economic type.
Table 3. Estimated Education Expenditure by Economic Type ('000 Euro)
2000 Actua     Percent  2001 Budget  Percent  2002 Budget   Percent
Wages and Salaries                 46,646 2       82%     46,305 1    76.8%    50,754.1        68%
Teaching                                   _   __      _                       38,925 6       53%
Non-teaching                                 ._    _   _                       11,828.4        16%
Goods and Services                  9,169 2       16/    11,475       19 0%   14,451 0        20%
Capital                                    _    __         2,551.3     4.2%     3,171 0         4%
Reserves 2.                          1,022.6       2%             _  __         5,729.0         8%
Total                               56,837 9     100%     60,332.4     100%    74,105.1       100%
Sources: Kosovo- Medium terrn Expenditure Review, October 2002., World Bank, Washington, D C.
CFA Kosovo Budget 2001, Kosovo Budget 2002, Education Funding Formula
I Includes budget grant to Municipalities.
2 2002 reserves are designated for 'excess' Serb teachers, refugees and returns.
-45 -



Almost half of 2002 education budget has been earnarked for education decentralized allocations to the
30 municipalities in Kosovo. The devolution of budgetary responsibility with respect to teacher salaries
was brought into effect in July 2002, and for administrative and support staff in January 2002. In 2003
the salary budget component will be entirely transferred to municipalities. Calculations for the
allocations are based on a per student formula and are planned to increasingly finance the regular
operations of schools. In 2002 the education budget will cover operating costs: (i) goods and services up
to 80 percent decentralized); (ii) limited capital funds for minor repairs and maintenance (up to 50
percent decentralized); (iii) salaries for support staff and administration staff including school directors
for 12 months; and (iv) salaries for teaching staff for 6 months from July 2002. UNMIK's recurrent
budget, however, is almost exclusively developed as a function of the number of students. The
student-teacher ratio has increased since 1999 from 18:1 to 21:1 for the Albanian majority. Contributing
factors include: (a) the structurally low studentlteacher ratio in the Serbian populated areas, caused by the
exodus of student populations to Serbia (8: 1); (b) The diversity of ethnic groups and teaching language
repartition over Kosovo territory; (c) A strong school age demographic profile (the highest in all Europe);
and (d) The steady return of families on exile.
Approximately 87 percent of the general budget is earmarked for schools, most of which is delegated to
municipalities in the form of block grants. The remaining 13 percent is allocated to central
administration and to tertiary education. The general budget spending does not include a number of
significant, indispensable expenditures for running costs that will have to be met in the next few
years-e.g., capital spending on school buildings and facilities required to meet acceptable standards and
reduce overcrowding, and non-recurrent expenditures to finance teaching equipment, pedagogical tools,
student and teacher books, staff training, maintenance materials, infrastructure, etc. There are explicit
guidelines for municipalities on how to allocate their funds to schools, and municipal authorities have
been trained on school budget distribution and management. Municipalities have standard guidelines for
transfer of funds to schools. However, school budget allocations are often made on a case by case basis
with insufficient control from the Central Ministry (MEST). Municipalities are not monitored
sufficiently. Overcrowded schools represent a significant "saving" for municipalities, who have no
strong interest in addressing the issue as is considered to be expensive and politically sensitive.
Cost recovery is notfeasible. Primary and secondary education is officially free of charge. However,
there is information about widespread private contribution to be high as a result of unauthorized fees for
extra tuition, exam preparation, additional textbooks, and other charges at secondary and tertiary
education levels. While on average estimated unit costs for a public primary school education were
around 120EUROs in 2001, household expenditures (including out-of-pocket contributions, travel,
clothing, etc.) were almost the same level at nearly IOOEUROs. For public school secondary education
unit costs were 140EUROs whereas household expenditures were as much as 200EUROs per student.
Although the per capita funding introduced this year may help to alleviate inequities in funding, the
government should consider providing some funding to compensate for some of the expenses especially
for the poorest households, or find alternatives to provide targeted support for them. The Education
Participation Improvement Project is an IDA Grant to Kosovo. No cost recovery measures have been
recommended or will be addressed through project implementation. From a supply side perspective, the
Grant will focus on building schools' capacity to improve enrollment, attendance, attainment, and
completion. From a demand side perspective, it is anticipated that parents from remote and marginalized
communities will respond positively to quality improvements in schools and increased security measures
by sending their children to school.
The planned project costs of US$ 4.6 million represents on average about $1.5 million for each of the
-46 -



three project implementation years (2003-2006). Total project costs represent about 6 percent of the
2002 education allocation in the Kosovo general budget. This is equivalent to just over one percent of
the total general budget. Total counterpart funding in the amount of less than USS 10,000 is relatively
small and would not have a significant impact on the education budget. The counterpart funds required
for the Project cover 5 percent of operational costs. The increase in recurrent costs (to maintain the
EMIS component and the school grants component) resulting from the project would also be relatively
small. If following project implementation MEST finds that the impact of school grants is positive, and
has helped to improve access and attainment, MEST could consider continuing to provide targeted
subsidies in the form of school grants through the education budget. This would largely vary by
municipality depending on the geographical location of the schools, and the school development plans
for the schools benefiting from the Project. The government is addressing recurrent cost issues with
respect to the operation of the sector on the basis of recommendations outlined in the recently completed
World Bank report, Kosovo: Medium Term Public Expenditure Priorities. Further research on ways to
decrease costs and increase teacher efficiency is urgently required, particularly following the social
tensions relating to education employees--a strike which paralyzed the education system for three weeks
in October 2002.
The fiscal impact of the project may also be measured in relation to different budget categories in the
education budget. The project has three components: (1) School Development Grants; (2) Education
Management Information System (EMIS); and (3) Project Management. The school development grants
component (82 percent of total project costs) is expected to improve enrollment, attendance, and
completion rates. Project costs will not finance recurrent expenses such as salaries and wages. Relative
to goods, services and capital investments (24 percent of total budget for education), the school grants
represent about 5 percent of the 2002 general budget. The World Bank's Medium Term Expenditure
Pnorities for Kosovo concluded that spending on goods, services and capital investments is not
sufficient. Additional spending through the project is expected to have a positive impact on the structure
of the education budget. School grants will be used as incentives for school management and municipal
governance. This is in line with international trends of using public expenditure to stimulate
performance, efficiency, and quality. Improving enrollment and completion rates requires improvements
in efficiency and lower per capital expenditures. Given the current budget structure, school development
grants are expected to act as a positive incentive in terms of fiscal sustainability.
- 47 -



Attachment I
Kosovo: Education Participation Improvemnent Project
Checklist of Regional Guidelines for
Economic Analysis of Education Projects
1.    Proiect Coherently set in the CAS and ESW
See Section B (1) and (2) of the PAD.
2.     Quantitative Analysis of Alternative Project Design
Refer to Section D (1) in PAD.
3.     Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
See Section E (2) and Annex 4 of the PAD for fiscal impact.
4.     Completeness and Internal Coherence of Cost-Benefit analysis or Other Selection Criteria
See Annex 4 of the PAD.
5.     Sensitivity Analysis
None.
6.    Institutional Capacity and Risk Analysis
See Section E (4) for institutional capacity and Section F (2) of PAD for critical project risks.
The institutional capacity strengths and weaknesses, and measures to address them in the project were
assessed in detail during the pre-appraisal mission and confirmed at appraisal (see Annex 2 of the PAD).
7.     Poverty and Gender Analysis
The Project will target those geographical areas and school communities where problems of enrollment,
attendance and completion are the most acute. The Kosovo Poverty Assessment shows that these areas
and communities to be the poorest population in the state. The Project will provide the necessary
financing to bring out-of-school children to school, and help them to complete primary education and
access to secondary education. Through the school development plans and the grant proposals, schools
will have the opportunity to focus on options such as improved transportation to bring out-of-school
children to the nearest convenient schools, make improvements in the physical infrastructure to schools
to ensure that proper heating and ventilation is available to bring children back to school, and focus on
security issues to make schools a safe place for parents to send their children, especially girls.
An important part of the school development grants will improving gender equality in schools. The
sensitive issue with regard to security will be addressed through the project since schools need to address
- 48 -



this issue to focus on improving school enrollment, attendance, and completion. The project will focus
on Improving access for girls to pnmary education and secondary education,
8.     Environmental Analysis and Linkage to Economic Analysis
None.
9.     Economic Performance Criteria
See Annex 1 of PAD for key performance indicators.
10.    Overall Assessment
Based on the above aspects, it can be concluded that the project contributes to the overall development of
the education system in Kosovo, particularly from the perspective of the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). In the current environment where the education system is heavily funded through grants from
donors, sustainability issues need to be addressed from a macroeconomic perspective to provide a way
forward for the newly formed Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST) to receive
govermment budget to sustain the developmental impacts of the education projects in Kosovo.
- 49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Years Ending
FY2004-FY2005
I Year I     Year2 2   Year 3    Year4   I_Year 5    Year6   I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          1.2        1.7       1.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         1.2        1.7       1.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             1.2        1.7       1.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  1.2        1.7       1.6       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    1.2        1.7       1.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 50 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Procurement
This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Education Participation Improvement
Project financed by IDA Grant. IDA- financed Goods contracts under the project will be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (henceforth
referred to as Procurement Guidelines). IDA-financed contracts for Consulting Services required for the
project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997, January
1999 and May 2002 (henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and
procurement contracts not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the local regulations in
effect in Kosovo. The project inputs, estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in
Tables A and Al and described in more detail in the Project Operating Manual (POM) in Volume II
"Procurement Handbook". The project Procurement Plan is presented in Table B1. Other procurement
information, including prior review thresholds for IDA financed contracts, and summary assessment of
the procurement capacity of the implementation unit and IDA's review processes is presented in Table B.
The sample procurement documents and forms developed in ECA Region for small value procurement
would be adapted to suit the Project needs for procurement, especially under the School Grants
Component.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in May 2003 issue of the Development Business.
There are no procurement of goods under ICB and selection of consultants under QCBS procedures
under this project. The local advertisement procedure (at municipal and community level) in a local
language would be used for all small value procurement of civil works, goods and services under the
School Grants component. The local advertisements for consultant contracts for all project components
will placed in the Public Procurement Bulletin of UNMIK as well as at least in one newspaper of wide
circulation in Kosovo.
Implementation/Procurement Management
The Central Procurement Entity (CPE) within the Department of Public Services under the United
Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) is normally responsible for handling
procurement under IDA-financed projects in Kosovo. However, because of the limited capacity of the
CPE to handle a very large number of small value contracts envisioned under the project, it is planned
that responsibility for handling of all procurement activities under the EPIP would be delegated to the
Education Project Management Unit (PMU) established within the Kosovo Ministry of Education,
Science and Technology (MEST).
The PMU will work in coordination with and assistance from the procurement specialist of the MEST.
The MEST national procurement specialist, under supervision of an international UNMIK staff, handles
all procurement up to EURO25,000 value for the Ministry of Education system. For contracts above
EURO25,000, especially when a centralized procurement for schools is required (such as textbooks,
computer equipment, school furniture), he works in a team with the CPE procurement experts. There is
a small procurement unit established in each municipality and is overseen by an intemational staff of
- 51 -



UNMIK (located in each municipality). The unit normally comprises one procurement specialist (head
of procurement unit) and an assistant/secretary. The level of capacity of each unit varies from
municipality to municipality. Municipal procurement units are responsible for procurement of small
works, goods and services for schools in their respective municipalities up to EURO25,000 value per
contract.
In anticipation of the start of the project implementation, the PMU has drafted (with an assistance from
the Bank team) Operational Manual, including Procurement Handbook, and will start conducting "self
assessment capacity tests" for each procurement unit (in 30 municipalities) to verify the level of
procurement capacity in each municipality (details description of the test, forms and questionnaire is
included in Procurement Handbook of the Operating Manual). Depending on the outcomes of the
assessment, the PMU would finalize training and supervision plan for each municipality, identifying the
intensity of supervision and assistance required from the PMU.
The PMU has one full time local procurement specialist with experience in implementing Health and
Education Project, and who is familiar with the basic Bank procurement guidelines and standard
documentation but lacks experience in handling procurement independently (i.e. without mentoring from
an intemational procurement consultant). To further strengthen procurement capacity in the PMU, it is
agreed that: (i) a full time procurement assistant be recruited to help the procurement specialist with the
filing, monitoring, logistics, coordination of training events for the municipalities and schools, and (ii)
Procurement Specialist will need additional training in community-based procurement, including
recommended on-the-job training at the implementation unit of the Community Development Fund
(CDF) project that is being successfully implemented in Kosovo. A series of workshops, initiated by the
Project Launch Seminar scheduled around August 2003, would be the vehicle for training municipalities
and participating schools in community-based procurement procedures and accounting for the use of the
received grants. As necessary, short term technical assistance (for up to 18 months) will be recruited to
set up a training program for both PMU and selected staff of participating municipalities, and to assist in
preparation of the procurement plans and administration of all steps of procurement process under each
approved grant proposal. of an intemational procurement advisor is planned and budgeted in the project
and will be contracted as/if needed. The PMU Director has a background of an experienced financial
management specialist and will assist the procurement specialist in ensuring that appropriate monitoring,
reporting and contract administration processes are applied as outlined in Procurement Handbook on all
levels of the entities involved in procurement under the EPIP.
Procurement Arrangements
The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories under the
Project are summarized below in Table A and described in more detail in the Procurement Handbook
(Volume II of the Project Operating Manual). Procurement under the project would be undertaken in
accordance with the procurement arrangements shown in Table A and Al. Small works, goods and
service, and training under School Grants will be procured according to the provisions for Community
Participation in Procurement (paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines) and according to the
applicable procedures described in the POM. All grants are demand-driven initiatives (aggregate amount
US$ 3.4 million equivalent) and will include small value items (not exceeding US$ 15,000 equivalent per
contract). In the interest of social objectives of the project, it is desirable to call for the participation of
local communities and NGOs, increase the utilization of local know-how and employ labor-intensive and
other appropriate technologies as stated in paragraph 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. About 600
proposals and school development plans are expected to be received from the 550 primary schools and
110 secondary schools located in 30 municipalities. Of the proposals received, about 280 are expected to
be approved for grant funding. The criteria for the preparation, evaluation and award of the grants is
- 52 -



described in Annex 2, and further spelled out in the Operating Manual. The grant amounts are estimated
at under US$ 10,000 for primary schools and under US$ 15,000 for secondary schools. Grant proposals
may include small works, small quantities of goods (computer and lab equipment, software, school
fumiture, printed materials and etc), contractual services (transportation services, for example), minor
technical assistance/training (for teachers skills upgrading, for example), or any combination of these
elements. The grants will be awarded in three annual tranches. The PMU will be responsible for a
overall coordination, monitoring, reporting and assistance to the municipalities and schools in carrying
out procurement under awarded grants. The PMU will prepare an updated annual plan (aggregate for the
project and a detailed one for each municipality) shortly after each round of grant awards is completed.
The composition, dispersed origin and implementation timing of the above grant proposals do not make it
feasible or practical to aggregate or consolidate the small procurement items in these grants into large
packages suitable for Intemational or National Competitive Bidding (ICB or NCB) by a centralized
procurement unit.
Similar items requested in more than one approved proposal will be grouped to the extend possible into
packages procured under National or Intemational Shopping procedures to ensure economy of scale and
obtaining the best prices. Updated procurement plans will be review by IDA prior to any procurement
under the School grants begins. The procurement schedule for the project is presented in Table B I. The
main procurement methods are highlighted below.
Goods
Goods (approximately. aggregate amount of US$ 0.15 million) include mmnor office equipment and one
vehicle for the PMU, computer equipment and furniture for the EMIS (under Component 2 and 3). Such
procurement would be undertaken as follows:
(a)   International Shopping (IS) will be used for procurement of: (i) one vehicle for the PMU; (ii)
computer and office equipment for the EMIS; and (iii) an aggregate goods package under School
Grants component in cases when estimated contract amount is below US$ 100,000 equivalent.
The PMU will obtain quotations from at least three suppliers from two different countries;
(b)   National Shopping (NS) will be used for (i) minor office equipment for the PMU and EMIS; and
(ii) supplies and PMU operational expenditure items of less than US$ 50,000 per contract and
would require at least three quotations in response to a written invitation to quote. For
procurement of small operational expenditure items with an estimated value below US$ 2,000
equivalent per contract, to the extent feasible, at least three quotations from the local supplier's
price lists will be obtained and compared.
Selection of Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (aggregate value US$ 0.6 million) for technical assistance and training
will be packaged to include a combination of related skills and services, in order to make them attractive
and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts to be managed. No civil servants
will be financed under the Grant. The following selection methods will be followed:
(a)   Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) selection method will be used for three
consulting services contracts (with an estimated aggregate value of US$ 0.1 million) for public
- 53 -



information campaign for School Grants component, monitoring institutional aspects of access
and attaimnent, and for development and maintenance of the EMIS;
(b)   Least Cost Selection (LCS) selection method will be used for the hiring of an audit firm for the
project (estimated at US$ 0.02 million);
(c)   Individual Consultants (IC) services will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, and will include various TA services
(aggregate value US$ 0.3 million) such as advisory services to review training materials for the
School Grants component and Operating Manual/Procurement Handbook, local and international
TA assisting the PMU in project implementation, as well as various small TA services. Also,
several PMU staff contracted under the on-going Health and Education Project would stay on the
implementation team of the EPIP, to ensure continuity in project implementation and transfer of
knowledge and know-how accumulated under the first project in the education sector (Health and
Education Project), and whose performance has been satisfactory up to date. Such contracting
will be done in accordance with paragraph 5.4 of Consultant Guidelines;
(d)   Single-Source Selection (SS) selection method (up an aggregate value of US$ 0.3 million) will
be used (subject to the prior agreement of IDA) for contracting a local NGO for delivery of
training and outreach services to all schools in five regions as no other alternatives are available
for delivenng this type of training. Estimated budget for this contract is about US$ 190,000 and
includes expenses of outreach consultants visit the schools and carry out training events. KFOS
will contribute additional US$ 100,000 towards the cost of this task (under separate contract
between KFOS and KEC) to cover the NGO staff fees and overheads.
Community Participation under School Grants
Small School Grants (aggregate value US$ 3.4 million) expected to range up to US$ 10,000 equivalent
each for primary school and up to US$ 15,000 equivalent each for secondary schools, will include
procurement of small works, goods and services such as teaching aids, library books, minor equipment,
consultant fees for small training courses, costs of organizing/advertizing meetings to facilitate
attendance by parents and community members, providing adequate facilities and subject content,
contractual services to organize transportation to school for children from remote locations, minor works
for classrooms improvements, and etc. Procurement of goods, works and services will be carried out by
the procurement units of municipalities and school's board, following an approved budget and
procurement plan and employing community-based procurement procedures, as indicated in paragraph
3.15 of the Guidelines, and included in the Operating Manual (Volume II, Procurement Handbook).
Records of the applied procedures and original of the receipts will be kept in the municipaliteis and
schools for spot-check supervision by the PMU and audits. School Grant Coordinator, with support from
the MEST/PMU, will prepare consolidated reports. The Association will, on a sample basis, review the
procedures followed by the municipalities and school boards as part of procurement post review.
Retroactive Financing
Procurement under retroactive financing for School Grants for schools that participated in the school
grant pilot and received funds from the MFE budget prior to EPIP effectiveness will be carried out in
accordance with para 1.9 of the Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing of Procurement
Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The procurement procedures should be in conformity
with the provisions of the Procurement Handbook of the Operational Manual (POM). The POM has to
- 54 -



be formally cleared by the Bank prior to any steps for the procurement process begins. In this case only,
the amount of grants that were provided to schools participating in the pilot will be reimbursed
retroactively in one lumpsum payment amounting to a maximum of US$ 60,000 to the MFE following
project effectiveness.
Incremental Operating Costs
The Grant will finance 100 percent of incremental operating costs (US$0.4 million) that include office
supplies, communications, maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under EMIS and
Project Management components of the project, and publication of notices in local newspapers.
Reiiew by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling ofProcurement. Full documentation should be submitted to IDA for prior review on the
following procurement contracts:
(a)    first two goods contracts awarded under International Shopping procedure;
(b)    first two goods contracts awarded under National Shopping procedure;
(c)    all goods contracts awarded through Direct Contracting with an exception of the School Grants
component;
(d)    first two consulting firm contracts under CQ procedure;
(e)    first consulting contract under LCS procedure;
(f)    all consulting contracts with individual consultants and firrns awarded through Sole Source
selection method with an exception of the School Grants component;
(g)    all consulting contracts over $50,000 with firms;
(h)    all consulting contracts over $25,000 with individual consultants; and
(i)    Tenns of Reference of all consulting contracts.
All other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews carried out by IDA supervision
missions. Table B summarizes applicable procedures and review requirements.
In addition, procurement plans for each round of awarded grants prepared by participating
schools/municipalities indicating packaging, procurement method, procurement responsibilities
(i.e.procurement unit of the municipality or the school board) and time schedule should be reviewed by
IDA prior to any procurement can start. Based on the results of the first year project review, IDA can
release intensity of procurement supervision and review only selected procurement plans for those
municipalities that scored low on the self assessment capacity test. Ex-post reviews of procurement
carried out by the School grants recipients would be undertaken by PMU and IDA on a random basis but
not less than every fifth grant during the first year and every tenth grant during the second and the third
year of project implementation.
Annual operating budget of the PMU will be subject to prior review by IDA as well.
- 55 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,  -  r      - _'1'   - 1.  x t_ ProcP4Arement Wiethod  - -
-; CB  -        NC1          Other                   TG.B.F.  TotalCost
1. Works                            0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.00          0.15         0.00        0.15
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.15)        (0.00)     (0.15)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          0.65         0.00        0.65
and Training                        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.62)       (0.00)      (0.62)
4. School Grants                    0.00             0.00          3.39         0.00        3.39
(0.00)          (0.00)        (3.39)        (0.00)     (3.39)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00          0.34          0.07        0.41
Cost                            (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.34)        (0.00)      (0.34)
Total                             0.00            0.00          4.53         0.07        4.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (4.50)        (0.00)      (4.50)
"Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingenctes.
Includes goods to be procured through international/nationial shopping, direct contracting, consulting services,
training and study tours, school grants to be procured using Community-based procurement procedure, and
incremental operating costs related to managing the project as described in this Annex.
- 56 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Con'suitant,Servic  .     i     .     * '-4~             '
Expend iturefCate or. -QCBS .-' OBS-.  .  SF; B  LCS  C  Q  Other. N.B.F.  Total Costu
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.11    0.20    0.00    0.33
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.02)  (0.1 1)  (0.20)  (0.00)  (0.33)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.32    0.00    0.32
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.29)  (0.00)   (0.29)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.11    0.52    0.00     0.65
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.02)  (0. I 1)  (0.49)  (0.00)  (0.62)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Sole Source
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 57 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value'  *                           Contrac $Subjeib 6
Threshold              Procurement             Prio, Re7iew
Expendit e.Caeng'y;      (US$ thousarids)     '   ,   ethod
1. Works                        n/a
2. Goods                      <100,000                  IS                   First two
<50,000                  NS                    First two
3. Services                Firms <100,000               CQ                   First two
Firms <$50,000               LCS                First contract
All                     SS                     All
Individuals > US$25,000          IC                     All
Individulas<US$25,000           IC                     TORs
School Grants                                          CBP            Detailed procurement plan
for each municipality.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 95% not including school grants.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6-8 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
(Since all expenses under School grants are going to be disbursed against SOEs and all contracts for
works, goods and services will be of a very small value and in Albanian language, it is recommended that
(i) IDA will carry out joint procurement and SOE post-review missions; (ii) procurement assistant from
Tirana office is included on the team to facilitate review of the documents in Albanian language.)
Section 1: Capacity of Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper Status.
A CPAR for Kosovo has not been done.
Are the bidding documents for the first year ready by negotiations. Yes [X ] No [I
Section 2: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: August 2003
- 58 -



Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: May 2003
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: No
Domestic Preference for Goods: No
Retroactive financing: Yes (up to $60,000 for the first 10 School Grants)
Advance Procurement: Yes (under the first 10 School Grants)
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The PMU will mamtain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by IDA supervision
missions. All procurement related documentation that requires IDA prior review will be cleared by
Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No packages above mandatory review
thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The Procurement Plan for the project will be updated annually.In
addition, consolidated procurement plan that includes a breakdown for each municipality would be
prepared following the School Grants awards and will be reviewed by the PMU and IDA. Procurement
information will be recorded by the PMU and submitted to UNMIK and IDA as part of the quarterly and
annual progress reports. A simple management information system with a procurement module would be
established to assist the PMU procurement specialist to monitor all procurement information, especially
under the School Grants component.
Co-financing: No
Section 3: Procurement Staffing
Indicate the name of Procurement staff or Bank's part of the Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project:
Name: Maria Vannari (ECSPS) (202) 458-4694
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
There is no procurement staff based in the Field Office. Besides assistance of the Country Manager
when/if any substantial procurement issues need to be discussed with UNMIK, the Field Office does not
have any role in procurement. Procurement assistant based in the Bank office in Tirana will assist with
procurement post-reviews under School Grants Component.
- 59 -



TABLE B: Kovoso Education Participation Improvement Project (EPIP)
Procurement Plan
Description                  Type       No of slices/items/  Estimated Cost  Proc. Method Tender Prep.  Invitation  Contract    Contract
sub-packages     WB financing                                 to Bid      Award      Completion
(USS)
I School Development
Grants
I I School Grants        Grants                              3,384,000                  Series of
(G,SW, CS)                                                    school grants
throughout the
life of the
project
11. Goods and Equipment
2 1 Equipment for SEOs         G               1              40,000          NS/IS         06/04        07/04      08/04        10/04
22 Computer Equipment          G               I              50,000           IS           11/03        12/03      01/04        04/04
and furniture for MIS
2 2 Vehicle for PMU            G                1              28,000          IS           09/03        10/03       11/03        12/03
23 Office equipment for        G                2              33,100          NS           08/03        09/03       10/03        12/03
PMU and outreach training
Ill. Consultants' Services
3 1 School Grant manual       CS                I              13,000           IC                       10/03       11/03        11/04
design/advisory services
3 2 NGO serices for            CS               I              186,350          SS           08/03                   08/03        08/05
outreach tain,ng (contract
with KEC)
3 3 Pubhlic Information       CS                I              12,000          CQ            10/03       11/03       12/03        12/04
Campaign for School Grant
component
3 4 Short-term technical      CS                I              25,000          IC           09/03        10/03       11/03        06/04
assistance to review school
grants training materials
3 5 Monitoring institutional   CS               1              25,000          CQ           01/04        02/04       03/04      04/30/03
aspects of access and
attainment
36 TA for EMIS                CS               2               76,000          CQ           09/04        10/04       11/04        11/05
(outsourcing), national
37 TA for EMIS,               CS                I              65,000           IC           10/04       11/04       12/04        11/04
international
3 8 Training for MEST staff   TR                I              8.000           n/a-                                  04/04        06/04
on education policy and
pcrformance
3 9 PMU                        CS              18              178,000        IC/SS          07/03       08/03       08/03        06/06
consultants/experts (10) and
Outreach consultants (8)
3 10 Training for PMU          TR               2              15,000          n/a0                                  06/04        06/05
national staff
3 11 Project Audit             CS               I              19,300          LCS           08/03       09/03       10/03        06/06
IV. Incremental
Operating Costs
4 1 Supplies, Office rent,    SOE            Multiple          342,250     Small expenditures throughout the life ofthe project
telephone, Communication,
and Semices
TOTAL                                                      4,500.000
Notes:
(i) "n/a*`   Training and Study Tours include related travel, lodging and boarding expenses and per diem allowances of the
participants, course/conference fees, cost of training matenals. IDA prior review is required to the list of participants, estimated budget,
choice of the training site, draft agenda and duration of the training
(n) CQ - Consultant Qualification , CS - Consultant Services ; IC - Individual Consultant ; IS - Intemational Shopping, LCS - Least
Cost Selection; NS - National Shopping, SW - Small Works, SS - Sole Source, SOE - Statement of Expenditures; TR - Training
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 60 -



Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Country Issues
No Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has been carried out for Kosovo, and no
CFAA is planned for the near future, due to the uncertain status of Kosovo as an independent nation.
The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE) under the auspices of the UINMIK carries out public
finance management in Kosovo. These activities were formally carried out by the CFA. The CFA was
merged with the MFE as of December 31, 2002. To ensure that expenditures are consistent with the
amounts and purposes set out in the Kosovo Consolidated Budget Regulation approved by the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG), and to prevent abuse and fraud, explicit administTative
instructions and procedures have been developed by the MFE, which have to be followed in the
commitment and expenditure of public money. Polices and procedures have been reviewed and found
acceptable to the Bank. Financial management review of the projects administered by the MFE has been
satisfactory and no issues have been identified. Experience gained so far has been factored into the
design of the Education Participation Improvement Project financial management arrangements.
Strengths and Weaknesses
Significant strengths that provide a basis for reliance on the project financial management system
include: (a) the experience of implementing Bank financed Grants that the accounting team in the MFE
has, and (b) the unqualified audit reports and the positive management letters issued by the auditors on
the projects covered by the MFE. No significant weaknesses have been noted.
Implementing Entity
The project implementation arrangements established under the Education and Health Project are
expected to continue under the Education Participation Improvement Project. A Project Director and a
small team of national staff will continue to work in the PMU of the Ministry of Education, Science and
Technology (MEST). Project financial management will continue to be handled by an international
financial manager and two assistants located in the MFE. The MFE will be responsible for the financial
management and reporting requirements of the project. The MFE has in place a financial management
system that is capable of producing project management reports as required by the Bank. This system
has already been utilized for other Bank funded projects. A qualified financial management specialist
located in the MFE was hired under the ongoing Bank financed Grant, whose primary responsibilities are
to monitor and prepare project management reports for all IDA-financed projects. As part of its
responsibilities, the MFE will be responsible for opening and maintaining the project's Special Account,
as it has done for several other IDA-financed projects. Relations between the MFE and the MEST have
been exemplary under the ongoing project. The national Project Director recruited for EPIP has a
background and experience in financial management
Funds Flow
A Special Account for the Bank Grant will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. All
payments will be made by the MFE. All contracts (with the exception of the School Grants component)
- 61 -



will be concluded and administered by the PMU. Contracts of small value under the School Grants
component will be signed and administered by the municipalities. The PMU established at the MEST
will prepare all the relevant documents and obtain the required clearances and coordinate very closely
with the MFE. Details of the funds flow can be found in the Project Operating Manual (POM).
Staffing
The accountant and disbursement officers are familiar with financial and accounting systems, as well as
with Bank requirements. The experience has been gained by implementing several IDA-financed Grants
The accountant would be responsible for all aspects of financial management and accounting, including
maintaining books of accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions. S/he will also be in charge of the
special account and prepare SOEs and replenishment requests of the SA.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The MFE will take all necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies
(OP/BP 10.02). The MFE procedures and policies have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable
AuditReport                               Due Date
Project                                   June 30, 2004
SOE                                       June 30, 2004
Special Account                          June 30, 2004
Reporting and Monitoring
The MFE will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. The MFE has been preparing PMRs for several on-going IDA-financed projects. These
reports have been timely and of good quality. The MFE will maintain the same reporting formats (for
consistency) for the EPIP, although the name would change to Financial Management Reporting (FMR).
The MFE will be responsible for preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs will include:
o Project Sources and Uses of Funds
o Uses of Funds by Project Activity
o Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
o Project Progress Reporting
o Procurement Reporting
Information Systems
The MFE has in place a financial management system acceptable to IDA. The MFE consolidate
payments and receipts of all line ministries and municipalities, through its accounting system. The chart
of accounts is based on the Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS). As the
participants under the project fall under the umbrella of the Kosovo Consolidated Budget (KCB), all
project related payments would be made via the Single Treasury Account (STA), and the accounts would
be maintained as part of the MFE's accounting system. The MFE is already producing PMRs for several
IDA-financed Grants.
- 62 -



Action Plan
At negotiations,
* UNMIK/MFE to confirm that the Project chart of accounts has been entered into the FreeBalance
System.
*   UNMIK/PMU to provide IDA with a Project Operating Manual (POM), satisfactory to IDA, that has
been adopted by UNMIK/MEST.
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE) to confirm that:
* the CFA has been abolished/merged with the MFE;
* the staff and job responsibilities which were under the control of the CFA have been transferred to
the MFE;
*   the admunistrative instructions and procedures that the CFA was following for the commitment and
expenditure of public money have not changed and that these instructions are now being carried out
by the MFE;
*   the arrangements agreed with the IDA to maintain a unit to account for Bank Grants and to prepare
the relevant reports will be kept intact.
Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports of the Project will be reviewed and issues
identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the.agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implemented by the MFE.
Financial Covenants
Following are the covenants relating to financial matters:
The MFE to have the project records, accounts and financial statements audited each year, commencing
with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2003.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit
Not applicable.
External Audit
The MFE will appoint independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The auditors
selected for the Project are required to be members of the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC). Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to IDA with the audit report four months
after end of each year audited. Costs of the audit will be financed through the project. The audit reports
for IDA-financed Grants managed by the MFE have been timely and have received clean opinions. No
issues are anticipated.
- 63 -



Audit of School Grants
Random special purpose audit of school grants will be carried on a yearly basis to ensure that the school
grants are being used for the purposes intended.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursements from the Grant will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the
Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). The proceeds of the IDA Grant will be
allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the MFE
will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The
option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure-Category        Amount in US$milion         Financing Percentag3e
School grants                             3.39                        100%
Goods                                     0.15                        100%
Consultants' services, training and audit  0.62         100% for foreign consultants, and 95%
costs                                                           for local consultants
Incremental Operating Costs               0.34                        100%
Total Project Costs                       4.50
Total                                     4.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures for: (a) School Grants; (b) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000
equivalent, with the exception of the contracts referred to in Schedule 3, Section I, Part C, paragraph 1(a)
of the Development Grant Agreement; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $25,000
equivalent; (d) services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent, with the exception of
the contracts referred to in Schedule 3, Section II, Part B, paragraph 1 of the Development Grant
- 64 -



Agreement; and (e) training and incremental operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as IDA
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. Statement of expenses will be first pre-screened
by the PMU and then certified locally by the MFE. Related documentation in support of statement of
expenses will not be submitted to the IDA, but will be retained by the PMU and MFE for at least one
year, after receipt by the IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made.
This document will be made available for review by the auditors and supervision missions. If ineligible
expenditures, including those not justified by evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Account
(SA), the IDA will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The IDA may exercise this right
until the Recipient has refunded the amount involved; or (if the IDA agrees) submitted evidence of other
eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the MFE would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to IDA, a special account in US dollars in a commercial bank. The selection
process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank will follow the Bank's Disbursement Handbook
procedures. The initial authorized allocation into the Special Account (SA) will be US$800,000.
Applications for the replenishment of the SA will be submitted on a monthly basis or when 20 percent of
the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The necessary documentation, the special
account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement will support the replenishment
application.
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Project Schedule                                  M -.  Planned  .    '     -.ual. .   .- 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5
First Bank mission (identification)            05/20/2002                   05/20/2002
Appraisal mission departure                     12/03/2002                  12/03/2002
Negotiation s                                   12/02/2002                  03/31/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/01/2003
Prepared by:
UJNMIKJMEST and World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
~5~-:__Nare -~   f            _    -. .  .   .- - -  . Speciality, - -  - -,
Peter Darvas                      Task Team Leader
Peter Buckland                    Sr. Education Specialist
Jim Stevens                       Sr. Operations Officer
Shobhana Sosale                   Operations Officer
Jeanine Braithwaite               Sr. Economist
Maria Vannari                     Sr.Procurement Specialist
Mark Walker                       Lead Counsel
Hiran Herat                       Sr. Finacial Analyst
Joe Formoso                       Sr. Finance Officer
Anna Goodman                      Program Assistant
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Management Unit (PMU), Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST). Draft
Operating Manual, Kosovo, March 2003.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Financial Management Assessment. Hiran Herat (FM Specialist, World Bank)
* Procurement Assessment. Maria Vannari (Sr.Procurement Specialist, World Bank)
* Institutional Assessment. Peter Buckland (Sr. Education Specialist, World Bank)
* Social Assessment. Linda Salihu (Consultant, Kosovo)
C. Other
* Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Provisional Institutions of Self-Government.
Handbook on Municipal Education Governance. First Edition. 2002. Prishtina, Kosovo.
* The British Council. Education in Kosovo. Report to the British Council by Professor Lynn Davies.
Center for International Education and Research. School of Education. University of Birmingham.
August 1999.
* Statistical Office of Kosovo. Statistics on Education in Kosovb, 2001; Version 2. UNICEF and
Transitional Administrative Department of Education, Science and Tehcnology.
* United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). Education Statistics
2000/2001. Transitional Administrative Department of Education, Science and Technology. World
Bank/Education Management Information System sub-component. Prishtina, Kosovo.
* United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK). Briefing Document for the
Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. February 2002. Prishtina, Kosovo.
* UNMIK. Ministry Empowerment Project Training. Project funded by the World Bank. February 15
- May 31, 2002. Prishtina, Kosovo.
* UNMIK. Teacher Training Review Board. MEST Policy 2002 - 001. Prishtina, Kosovo.
* Vrenezi, Nait and Jehona Gjurgjeala. "Women's and Girls Education Project: Kosovo-wide Literacy
Survey. January 2002. Prishtina, Kosovo.
* World Bank. Program in Support of Kosovo: Fiscal Years 2000-2001. Europe and Central Asia
Region. November 2000.
* World Bank. Conflict and Change in Kosovo: Impact on Institutions and Society. ECSSD
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Working Paper No. 31. June 2001.
*   World Bank. Kosovo: Poverty Assessment (Volumes I and II). December 2001. Washington, D.C.
*   World Bank. Medium-term Public Expenditure Priorities. October 2002. Washington, D.C.
*Including electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
24-Mar-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA        SF               Cancel.   Undisb.     Ong    Frm Rev'd
P072405       2002 SOC PROT (KOSOVO TF)                            0 00      0 00      4 20                0 00      3 77      2 07      0 00
P072814       2001 COMM DEV FUND (KOSOVO TF)                       0 00      0 00      5 00                0 00      181      -319       0 00
P071265       2001 PSD TA (KOSOVO TF)                              0 00      0 00      3.00                0 00      0 76      0 66      0 00
P070365       2001 PILOT WS (KOSOVO TF)                            0 00      0 00      4 60                000       3 54      -1 06     0 00
P070295       2001 URGROAD(KOSOVOTF)                               00o       000       5.00                000       1 15      1 15      000
P069629       2001 SME CREDIT (KOSOVO TF)                          0 00      0 00      6.00                0 00      0 36      5 44      0 00
P069325       2000 EMG FARM RECONSTRUCTION (KOSOVO TF)             0 00      0.00     10 00                0 00      0 41      -3 69     041
P069516       2000 EDUC/HEALTH (KOSOVO TF)                         0 00      0 00      4 44                0 00      098       -019      0 00
Total:       000        000      4124                 000       1279       1 19      041
- 68 -



KOSOVO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar 24 - 2003
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:          0.00    0.00     0.00     0 00    0 00     0.00    0 00     0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                          Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Comnumtment:        0 00       0.00      0.00      0.00
- 69 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KOSOVO: Education Participation Improvement Project
Not Applicable.
- 70 -









IBRD 30432R
30 This mop wos produced by the
20'00'                    20030.      To Krolievo    2100'                     2130  Mop Desi,gn Unit of Th  World Book
The boundories, colors, denom-noto-s
and onyother information sho- on
this mop do not imply, on the port of
KO     SO    VO                                                                      Th. World Bonk Group, ony judgmeto
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n enosmn or acceptance of
MONTENEGRO                      \ZubtnC                a Pp Mifrevo  '<
Tolsho;grod  -   ;    #w_1-/          fi f   X>Vuhn'\               g!X;TN                sb    o
1:.-     MAIN ROADS
A300  Juf                                                       L >frpezel X   f8o   <FYR            ,
1 -!- lY-,,.r / 2+ MACE~~an               - DONI'A
-.---. RAILROADS (agsl S |20'
M  ATONALCPTA  ),SI1ENEGRO                          M \ R & 
MUNICIPALBOUNDARIES 
-- BOUNDARY OF FORMER MALISEVO MUNICIPALITY  SJ  IO BlDDgJf    \ $4 a \HERZEGOa/iMNNA ojS   e-
- -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                9                          Tt     r   ,    .S s1-KO\SOwVULGARIA <0;, Ses'
--    REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES TTIO Bitol                                      E
-- -         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES20                   0Kom      r          I     A
*When too municipality name5 ore shown, Setbian spellings K  1  1 n  e                     Ko-0v-k / 
ore shown first, follwed by Albon,on spelhngs5in parmstheses          tr@lnL>           /    V  Ago   S  TRE
When, only one nome i5shon  is ,elm  h some in              ( MlN    ;  ,  _{\  ) +    \ GREECE 5 -      U KEYu2
both languages               20301                      2100       t " w _<2 *     o     bII eTek
20'00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC 2003 2









epPork No.:         25571  YU
Type:     PAD-,



