                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No:ICR0000343




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (CIDA-52996, IDA-H0360)




                                   ON AN

                                 IDA GRANT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION (US$ 4.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                      TO

                                  KOSOVO

                                   FOR AN

            EDUCATION PARTICIPATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                 June 29, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective 28/02/2007)

                                       Currency Unit = Euro
                                            Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.32
                                            US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.76

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                        [January 1 ­ December 31]

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIDA Canadian International Development Agency           NER      Net Enrollment Rate
DEST Department of Education, Science and Technology     NGO      Non-governmental Organization
DO   Development Objective                               NPV      Net Present Value
EHP  Education and Health Project                        PAD      Project Appraisal Document
EMIS Education Management Information System             PCU      Project Coordination Unit
EOI  Expression of Interest                              PDO      Project Development Objective
EPIP Education Participation Improvement Project         PISG     Provisional Institutions of Self Government
ERR  Economic Rate of Return                             PL       Poverty Line
FPL  Food Poverty Line                                   PMU      Project Management Unit
FRY  Former Republic of Yugoslavia                       POM      Project Operating Manual
GER  Gross Enrollment Rate                               QAE      Quality at Entry Assessment
ICR  Implementation Completion Results Report            QER      Quality Enhancement Review
IDA  International Development Association               QAG      Quality Assessment Group
INT  Institutional Integrity Office                      QAS      Quality of Supervision Assessment
ISR  Implementation                                      REO      Regional Education Office
KEC  Kosovo Education Center                             ROSO Regional Outreach School Officer
LSMS Living Standard Measurement Survey                  SDG      School Development Grant
M&E  Monitoring and Evaluation                           SGAB School Grants Approval Board
MDG  Millennium Development Goals                        SIL      Specific Investment Loan
MED  Municipality Education Director                     SRSG     Special Representative of the UN Secretary
MEST Ministry of Education, Science and Technology       General
MSGT Municipal School Grant Team                         TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
MTR  Mid-Term Review                                     UIS      UNESCO Institute of Statistics
NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization                  UNMIK United Nations Interim Administration
                                                                  Mission in Kosovo




                                         Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                                       Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                        Sector Manager: Mamta Murthi
                                    Project Team Leader: Keiko Miwa
                                      ICR Team Leader: Sachiko Kataoka

                                                 Kosovo
                    Education Participation Improvement Project




                                             CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 33
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 37
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38


MAP - IBRD 35406

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Education Participation
Country:                Kosovo                  Project Name:
                                                                       Improvement Project
                                                                       CIDA-52996,IDA-
Project ID:             P079260                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       H0360
ICR Date:               06/29/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              UNMIK
Original Total
                        XDR 3.3M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/30/2002    Effectiveness:         07/23/2003          07/23/2003
Appraisal:             12/09/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/13/2003    Mid-term Review:       02/14/2005          02/14/2005
                                     Closing:               12/31/2006          12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                5                  5
Primary education                                               38                 38
Secondary education                                             38                 38
Sub-national government administration                          19                 19


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                              Primary           Primary
Gender                                                        Secondary         Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                 Secondary         Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary           Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                        Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos            Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:           Mamta Murthi                      Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:      Keiko Miwa                        Peter Darvas
ICR Team Leader:          Sachiko Kataoka
ICR Primary Author:       Sachiko Kataoka



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to improve educational attainment at primary and
secondary education levels and to enhance access of vulnerable groups to education.



                                              ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original PDO was not changed. However the PDO and intermediate outcome
indicators were revised and made more specific and measurable after the Mid Term
Review (MTR) in February 2005 because the original ones did not have specific target
values and some of the indicators such as net and gross enrolment rates and completion
rates were not measurable due to lack of population census data (the last census in
Kosovo was in 1991, and the next one is planned in 2009/2010). See Section 1.2 in the
main text for a detailed description of changes in the POD indicators.

  During the Mid-Term Review, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Education
(MEST) and the Bank team agreed on a set of new, more specific PDO and intermediate
outcome monitoring indicators and/or their target values (Kosovo Education Participation
Improvement Project: Aide Memoire, Mid-term Review, February 24, 2004).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
                Original: Reduction of dropout rate in the targeted schools.
Indicator 1 :   Revised: 25 percent reduction of the dropout rate among the ethnic minorities in
                75 percent of the targeted schools.

                Dropout of Roma,                                            Dropout of Roma,
Value                                                                       Ashkalia, Egyptians
quantitative or Ashkalia, Egyptians in     Reduction          25% reduction in Round 1 schools
Qualitative)    Round 1 schools
                2002/2003: 15%                                              2003/2004: 14%
                                                                            2004/2005: 8%
Date achieved 08/31/2004                   08/31/2004         02/24/2005    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        ACHIEVED: The dropout rate was reduced by 43% from 2002/03 (15%) to

achievement)    2004/05 (8%), hence the achievement exceeded the target.

                Original: Improvement in the survival rate and completion rate at primary level

Indicator 2 :   in targeted schools.
                Revised: 25 % improvement in the survival rate in targeted primary/secondary
                schools among ethnic minorities in 75 % of the targeted schools.

                Survival rates of Roma,                                     Survival rates of

                Ashkalia, Egyptians                                         Roma, Ashkalia,

                2002/03 to 2003/04:                                         Egyptians 03/04 to

                Gr 1-2 109%;                                                04/05 (change from

Value           Gr 2-3 101%;                                                02/03 to 03/04):

quantitative or Gr 3-4 93%;                Improvement        25%           Gr 1-2 154%

Qualitative)    Gr 4-5 90%;                                   improvement (+42%);

                Gr 5-6 79%;                                                 Gr 2-3 96% (-5%);

                Gr 6-7 95%;                                                 Gr 3-4 113%

                Gr 7-8 96%;                                                 (+20%);

                Gr 8-9 53%                                                  Gr 4-5 70% (-20%);
                                                                            Gr 5-6 148%


                                               iii

                                                                              (69%);
                                                                              Gr 6-7 90% (-5%);
                                                                              Gr 7-8 92% (-4%);
                                                                              Gr 8-9 92% (+39%)
Date achieved 08/31/2004                    08/31/2004         02/24/2005     12/31/2006
Comments        Changes in the survival rates are generally positive, but mixed in some grades.
(incl. %        These mixed results might be due partially to the high mobility of
achievement)    students/families in the post-conflict environment and the reliability of data.
                Original: Improved net and gross enrolment rates to primary education in

Indicator 3 :   targeted non-Serb and non-Albanian communities
                Revised: Dropped because there was no population census data to calculate
                NER/GER
Value
quantitative or Not collected               Improvement        Dropped        Not applicable
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/31/2004                    08/31/2004         02/24/2005     02/24/2005
Comments
(incl. %        It was agreed to drop this indicator during the MTR due to the lack of recent

achievement)    population census data (last census was in 1991).

                Original: Higher level transition to and attainment at secondary level especially

Indicator 4 :   by girls in the targeted communities
                Revised: 30% of improvement of girls survival rate between grades in secondary
                education

                Survival rate of girls in                                     Survival rate of

Value           secondary schools                                             girls in secondary

quantitative or 2002/03 to 2003/04          Improvement        30%            schools

Qualitative)    Grade 10-11: 95%                               improvement 2003/04 to 2004/05

                Grade 11-12: 96%                                              Grade 10-11: 82%
                                                                              Grade 11-12: 82%
Date achieved 08/31/2004                    08/31/2004         02/24/2005     12/31/2006
Comments        The survival rate of girls (and boys) appears to have deteriorated in participating
(incl. %        secondary schools which could be due to the migration of the population or the
achievement)    poor quality of data. (See discussion in section 3.2)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   School Development Plans completed in about 300 schools.

Value                                       300 schools                       514 schools

(quantitative   0 school                    complete school                   successfully

or Qualitative)                             development plan.                 completed School
                                                                              Development Plans.
Date achieved 07/31/2003                    07/31/2003                        12/31/2006
Comments        FULLY ACHIEVED: The achievement exceeded the original target by more
(incl. %        than 70%. According to external evaluation, the implementation resulted in
achievement)    various achievements including increased public awareness and community


                                                iv

               participation in education reform.
               Original: School grant process is implemented in a timely manner.
Indicator 2 :  Revised: 270 schools implement successfully initiatives to improve
               infrastructure, heating, hygiene, computers and others.

                                                             270 schools    514 schools

                                                             implement      successfully

                                                             initiatives to implemented the

Value                                                        improve        school development

(quantitative  0 school                   Not specified      infrastructure,initiatives. Out of

or Qualitative)                                              heating and    which, 91 schools

                                                             hygiene,       implemented the

                                                             computers      second school

                                                             successfully.  development
                                                                            initiatives.
Date achieved 07/31/2003                  07/31/2003         02/24/2005     12/31/2006
Comments       FULLY ACHIEVED: The achievement was almost double the target. The
(incl. %       contributions by communities (Euro 1.2 million, 22% of total school grants
achievement)   amount) were much higher than expected (5% of total school grants amount).
               Original: EMIS has established data on dropout, attendance and completion (9

Indicator 3 :  years) is available
               Revised: EMIS has established data on enrollment, gender and other key school
               indicators
                                                                            EMIS was piloted

                                                             EMIS           in 30 schools, its

                                                             produces       design was

Value          Database was established EMIS produces        enrolment,     finalized, and the

(quantitative  under the Education        dropout,           gender and     installation in

or Qualitative)Health Project, but        attendance and                    municipalities
               needed to be improved.     completion rates   other key
                                                             school         completed. It is in

                                                             indicators     the process of
                                                                            installation for all
                                                                            schools.
Date achieved 07/31/2003                  07/31/2003         02/24/2005     12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       PARTIALLY ACHIEVED: EMIS was redesigned after the Mid-Term Review

achievement)   and the new EMIS system can produce data on 19 key indicators.

               Agreed and added at MTR: Stakeholders have actively participated in all stages
Indicator 4 :  of the development of education strategy, and the education strategy is approved
               by Government.
                                                                            Strategy for Higher

                                                             Development    Education (2005-

Value                                                        and approval   15) and Strategy for

(quantitative  No strategy education                         of the         Pre-University

or Qualitative)existed.                                      education      Education (2007-

                                                             strategy.      17) completed and
                                                                            approved by the
                                                                            government.
Date achieved 02/24/2005                                     02/24/2005     12/31/2006
Comments       FULLY ACHIEVED: The government involved various stakeholders in the



                                                v

(incl. %       process of developing strategies to reflect their views. The strategies were
achievement)   approved by the Government, and are used for the preparation of the medium-
               term expenditure framework.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived               DO                            IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     08/05/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/17/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.12
  3     06/22/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.31
  4     12/21/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.34
  5     05/16/2005          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                     1.89

  6     06/29/2005          Satisfactory                Moderately
                                                      Unsatisfactory                      2.01

  7     01/25/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     3.13
  8     08/23/2006          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                  3.77
  9     03/19/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     4.87



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: While a number of sub-regions of the Former Republic of Yugoslavia
(FRY) were gaining independence in the 1990s, Kosovo, which also strived for independence
from the FRY, faced escalating conflicts with Serbia, resulting in air strikes by NATO
between March and June 1999. Following NATO's attack, UN Security Council Resolution
1244 was adopted in June 1999, and Regulation No. 2001/9 on a Constitutional Framework
for Provisional Self-Government in Kosovo created in May 2001 the post-conflict political
and constitutional framework with the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government (PISG)
that included the President of Kosovo, the Assembly and the Government. While the PISG
had progressively more responsibility in governing Kosovo, the Special Representative of the
UN Secretary General (SRSG) remains the final legal authority.

During the 1990s, Kosovo's economy experienced a significant economic decline, firstly due
to massive decline of investment and neglect, and secondly due to the disruption and
destruction of infrastructure and productive capacity caused by the 1999 conflict. After an
initial post-conflict acceleration in 2000, economic growth has weakened in line with
declining donor resources, and Kosovo has continued facing many of the same structural
issues as other poor, rural, transition economies in an environment of declining donor
funding. The Bank's Poverty Assessment 2001, based on the Living Standard Measurement
Survey (LSMS), found that over half of the population was living below the poverty line (PL)
and around 12 percent below the food poverty line (FPL).1 Typically, the households in
extreme poverty were those of Albanian ethnicity, working in agriculture in a rural area with
a high dependency ratio,2 and headed by a person with a low level of education.

Sector Background: In Kosovo, approximately 88 percent of the total population of about
2 million is Albanians.3 However, the centralization of the education system by Belgrade,
the Serbian capital, during the 1990s compelled the Albanians in Kosovo to create an
unofficial, or so-called `underground' education system in the Albanian language
supported by communities, in parallel to the formal system in the Serbian language.
During this period, funding and the availability of educational inputs to the community-
based Albanian system were very limited, and teachers were unable to update their
teaching skills and methodologies. The 1999 conflict further disrupted both the formal and



1PL allows for the household's need to consume goods other than food (DM 3.499, at 2001 price) per adult per
day. FPL is defined as the cost of the minimum food basket to provide 2,100 calories per adult (DM 1.8539 per
adult, per day). A household is considered 'extremely poor,' if its consumption is below FPL.
2The dependency ratio is equal to the number of individuals aged below 15 or above 64 divided by the number
of individuals aged 15 to 64, expressed as a percentage.

3According to government estimates, the population of Kosovo consists of, approximately, 88 percent
Albanians, 7 percent Serbs, 1.9 percent Bosniaks, 1.7 percent Roma, 1 percent Turks, and 0.5 percent Gorani.




                                                       1

informal education systems. Moreover, after the war, schools were required by law to
establish functional school boards, but most schools were unable to mobilize parents and
communities and to establish a board, which limited their capacity to efficiently and
effectively manage themselves and to provide good quality education for children.

The overall education attainment (defined as the highest grade achieved for adults who
have left school) in Kosovo was low, compared to neighboring countries. In addition,
educational attainment and enrolment rates varied widely between ethnic groups, gender,
geographical locations and income levels. According to the LSMS 2001, the primary net
enrolment rate for the entire population of Kosovo was around 97 percent with little gender
gap, but only 77 percent for non-Serb ethnic minorities which recorded a wide gender gap
(85 percent for boys and 69 percent for girls). At the secondary education level, the gender
gap was wide for all ethnic groups: in 2001, the net enrolment rates were 74 percent for
boys and 56 percent for girls among Albanians, 87 percent for boys and 93 percent for girls
among Serbs, and 54 percent for boys and 40 percent for girls among non-Serb ethnic
minorities.

Education administration, like the rest of public administration, was (and still is) at
transition. In September 2002, the responsibility for provision of education was transferred
from UNMIK to the PISG Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST), with
UNMIK playing a supportive, capacity building role. In May 2003, the Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology (MEST) developed the Strategic Plan for the
Development of Education in Kosova (2003-2007), which aimed at moving the Kosovar
education from its emergency phase to consolidation.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) was
prepared in 2002. The program for CY2002-2003 aimed to support post-conflict
reconstruction, economic recovery, poverty alleviation and human development, fiscal
sustainability, good governance, peace-building and stabilization of the region as part of a
broader international effort led by the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in
Kosovo (UNMIK). Within this overall support strategy, it was considered indispensable that
the Bank builds on and continues supporting the process of institutional building,
decentralizing education financing and administration and strengthening and reinforcing the
sustainability of the Education Management Information System (EMIS) initiated by the first
phase of support in education through the Education and Health Project (EHP) (May 2000-
June 2004). While good progress was made under the EHP, continuous support for the
institutional building of the education sector to address the issue of low educational
attainment was considered critical in Kosovo. The second phase of assistance through the
Education Participation Improvement Project (EPIP) aimed to tackle these issues by
providing schools with school development grants accompanied by training on school-based
planning and management, strengthening the role of school boards, participation of
municipalities in the school grant selection process, and improvement of the EMIS for
monitoring and evaluation.




                                                2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original PDO was to improve educational attainment at primary and secondary education
levels and to enhance access of vulnerable groups to education. The original outcome
indicators were: (i) reduction of dropout rate in the targeted schools; (ii) improvement in the
survival rate between grades and completion rate at primary level (currently nine years) in
the targeted schools; (iii) improved net and gross enrollment rates for primary education in
targeted non-Serb and non-Albanian communities; and (iv) higher level transition to and
attainment at secondary level especially by girls in the targeted communities. The original
output indicators were: (i) School Development Plan completed in about 300 schools, (ii)
school grant process is implemented in a timely manner; (iii) EMIS has established data on
dropout, attendance and completion (9 years) is available; and (iv) enrollment rates, dropout
rates, average number of years in the education system.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The original PDO was not changed, but the monitoring indicators (both outcome and output
indicators) were revised and made more specific and measurable during the Mid Term
Review (MTR) in February 2005 because the original ones did not have specific target values
and some of the indicators such as net and gross enrolment rates and completion rates were
not measurable due to the lack of population census data (the last census in Kosovo was in
1991, and the next one is planned in 2009/2010). The revised outcome indicators were: (i)
25 percent reduction of the dropout rate among the ethnic minorities in 75 percent of the
targeted schools; (ii) 25 percent improvement in the survival rate in targeted primary and
secondary schools among the ethnic minorities between the grades (where feasible until
Grade 9) in 75 percent of the targeted schools by the beginning of the next academic year
following the completion of the school based planning and grant activities; and (iii) 30
percent of improvement of girls survival rate between grades in secondary education. The
revised output indicators were: (i) School Development Plan completed in about 300 schools;
(ii) 270 schools implement successfully initiatives to improve infrastructure, heating, hygiene,
computers and others; (iii) EMIS has established data on enrollment, gender and other school
key indicators; and (iv) stakeholders have actively participated in all stages of development
and then the strategy is approved by Government.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

     Through the improvement of access and attainment, the project was to primarily benefit
     the poorest, those who lived in rural areas, girls, and non-Albanian, non-Serb minorities,
     who, in general, had more limited access and lower attainment;
     Through the improvement of effectiveness, quality and relevance, the whole student
     population in the selected schools was to benefit; and
     Through the improved planning, management and strengthened participation, local
     stakeholders were to benefit from the project.




                                                 3

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component I: School Development Grants (SDGs) (Total est. cost: US$ 3.79 million)
The objective of the SDG component was to provide funding to schools to help increase
enrollment, attendance, and retention in primary and secondary education. Through the SDG
process, approximately US$ 3.4 million in grant finding was to be awarded in targeted small
grant contracts to approximately half of the 550 primary schools and 110 secondary schools
in Kosovo's 30 municipalities. Primary schools were to be eligible for grants up to
US$10,000 and secondary schools were to be eligible for grants up to US$ 15,000. The
grants were to be awarded on the basis of school development plans and grant proposals,
which were to be evaluated by Municipal School Grant Teams (MSGTs) and approved by a
central School Grants Approval Board (SGAB). All schools selected for the program were to
receive technical assistance and training in the areas of school development planning and
proposal writing. Schools were to be selected for the program by municipal education
officials on the basis of documented access and retention problems in the school's catchment
area. Selection criteria were to focus largely on enrollment, dropout, and attendance statistics.
Grant proposals, prepared by the selected schools, were to be evaluated by the MEST on the
basis of how effectively they address access and retention problems. The grants were to
finance training, community outreach activities, educational materials and school supplies,
and some small works aimed at improving security and the educational environment.
Random special purpose audit of the school grants was to be carried on a yearly basis to
ensure that the school grants were being used for the purposes intended.

Component II: Improving the Education Management Information System (Total est.
cost: US$ 0.30 million)
The objective of this component was to help strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the
existing EMIS, which had been designed and initiated under the EHP. More specifically, the
EMIS was to help monitor enrollment, attendance, repetition, dropout and completion rates,
as well as try to account for children in the targeted municipalities, who were not
participating in the school system. The Project was to finance local and international
technical assistance, external training, and limited equipment and furniture of central level
and municipal offices.

Component III: Project Management (Total est. cost: US$ 0.51 million)
The objective of this component was the effective implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project. The implementing agency was the MEST. A small team of
professional staff was to form a Project Management Unit (PMU) for the implementation of
the Project. The PMU was to be headed by a Project Director who had been hired under the
EHP as Deputy Director. He was receiving on-the-job training from an international Project
Director of the education component of the EHP. The Project Director recruited for the
proposed Project had a background and experience in financial management. Most of the
PMU staff had already been contracted under the EHP and were involved in the preparation
of the Project. The team that worked on the EHP for implementation of the Project was to be
maintained to ensure continuity and preserve the skills and knowledge gained under the
ongoing project. The PMU was also to be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of




                                                 4

results under the school development grants component. The component was to finance
technical assistance, limited computer and office equipment, and training of staff.

1.6 Revised Components
There was no change to the original components.

1.7 Other significant changes
It was agreed during the MTR in February 2005 that the PMU would be restructured because
its management and procurement capacities were inappropriate. Between June and
November 2005, the MEST re-advertised the staff positions in the unit, and transformed it as
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).4 As the name suggests, the new PCU became more a
coordinating rather than managing unit, closely supervised by the MEST. The MEST also
extended the contract with the facilitating agency for the SDG component, Kosovo Education
Center (KEC), and strengthened the role of Regional Outreach School Officers (ROSOs) in
the grant implementation and monitoring. The management responsibility for the EMIS
component was also transferred from the PMU to the MEST.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation
Soundness of the background analysis: The education chapter of the Medium-Term Public
Expenditure Review (October 2002) and the experience of the Education and Health Project
(EHP) among others provided a good analytical base for the project preparation and design.
The former identified low educational attainment (the grade level completed) especially at
the secondary level and the gaps in attainment depending upon the household income level,
ethnicity and gender, as one of the key issues to be addressed in Kosovo. It also pointed out
the importance of local participation and accountability in education. The Education and
Health Project (EHP) supported the government to implement the new Law on Primary and
Secondary Education in Kosovo, No. 2002/19, to establish the principles of block grant
funding for municipalities based on a per student funding formula, and to start developing
EMIS.

Given the institutional and legal framework developed under the EHP, it was an appropriate
decision that the EPIP aimed to sustain the achievements of the EHP and further strengthen
capacities of schools and the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system as the second phase
of the development of the education sector. In order to develop a model for the new school
grant scheme, the EHP piloted a School Grant Project in 10 selected schools, and established
the institutional framework for the scheme, i.e., the School Grants Approval Board (SGAB)
at the central level and the Municipal School Grants Team (MSGT) at the municipality level.



4The Acting Project Coordinator was appointed in June 2005, who was formally appointed for the position in
November 2005. Other staff, including Financial Management officer, education specialist, and IT expert, were
also appointed by November 2005.




                                                    5

This preparation work was appropriate and effective for the final design of the EPIP SDG
component. The capacity of the EMIS Section of the MEST was also assessed with the
assistance of a local IT consultancy firm, which demonstrated MEST's ability to collate
credible formatted information from municipalities and schools and to develop software tools,
and that the system was able to produce data required for school selection.

Overall Project Design: The EPIP was designed at an uncertain and transitional time in
Kosovo, and such a context was fully taken into consideration. The project was appraised
just after the Department of Education, Science and Technology (DEST) of the UNMIK was
transformed into the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST) in December
2002. The 2001 Constitutional Framework for the PISG had not clearly specified the
division of responsibilities between the UNMIK and MEST, however. Neither was sufficient
capacity building support provided from the UNMIK to the MEST prior to the transfer of
responsibilities. Given the weak capacity of the MEST and the government in general and
the needs for the second phase of the development of the education sector as discussed above,
it was highly appropriate to design a simple project focusing on the strengthening of school
management capacities with 85 percent of the investment allocated to the School
Development Grants component and the rest to supporting activities under the EMIS and
Project Management components. This simple and focused project design contributed to the
timely completion of the project without any extension. In addition, community participation
in post-conflict reconstruction of education (or in other sectors) is well recognized as critical
and instrumental,5 and therefore, was another appropriate element in project design.

Lessons from the School Grant Pilot Project: In principle, the recommendations made in
an evaluation report of the School Grant pilot project6 were reflected in the design of the
SDG component. The flexible and demand-driven design allowed schools to analyze their
financial, physical and pedagogical situations, to identify and prioritize their needs, and to
prepare a school development plan and a grant proposal on their own for the first time. It
was also crucial that community participation was encouraged by requiring schools to
mobilize financial and/or in-kind contributions from parents and communities (minimum five
percent of the school grant). The design of SDG could have been further strengthened if the
following recommendations were more vigorously reflected: (i) to include procurement and
monitoring training for schools in the initial training program (the issue of procurement
training was addressed after one year of project implementation); and (ii) to encourage the
participation of local NGOs at the municipality level in the preparation and implementation
of SDG activities (when/if competent local NGOs at municipal level are available).

Assessment of Risks and Mitigation Measures: Critical risks were identified and assessed
adequately. While some of the mitigation measures were appropriate and indeed minimized
risks, others were not sufficient or adequate to address the identified risks. Participation of
schools, parents, communities and municipalities in the planning of school grant process was



5Reshaping the Future: Education and Postconflict Reconstruction. The World Bank 2005.

6School Grant Pilot Project Report: Final Report (February 2004)




                                                     6

encouraged and ensured by the provision of sufficient training in school-based planning
capacity to prepare and implement a proposal and required involvement of municipality and
school members in the process and the agreement for the grant proposal. Although weak
monitoring of enrollment and attendance by municipalities and schools was recognized as a
potential risk, training in and dissemination of data collection and analysis were not
sufficiently incorporated in the project design.

In sum, a simple, focused and demand-driven project design promoting the participation of
school boards and communities took into account various key factors in Kosovo then: (i) the
post-conflict uncertain and transitional context of Kosovo, (ii) the weak capacity of the
government and the newly established MEST, (iii) the opportunity to capitalize upon
communities' enthusiasm for education, (iii) achievements and lessons from the EHP
including findings from the pilot project for the SDG component. The quality at entry could
have been further strengthened if lessons learned under the EHP were reflected more
vigorously in the detailed project design, and some risk mitigation measures were more
rigorous.

2.2 Implementation

Communication Strategy and Information about the Project Activities: Communication
and information sharing with the key stakeholders about the project objective and activities
was effective. While the Project was going to cover half of the primary and secondary
schools in Kosovo, the Regional Outreach School Officers (ROSOs) presented the objectives
of the EPIP to all school directors in all regions before the school selection process started.
This wide dissemination of the project information for the broader audience as well as the
establishment of the Municipal School Grants Team (MSGT) and clear presentation of
selection criteria at the municipality level contributed to gaining a good understanding and
ownership of the project. There was little, if any, negative response to the school selection
even from non-selected schools because key stakeholders understood the objectives of this
project, and agreed to prioritize poor schools first.

The MEST invited all of the Municipality Education Directors (MEDs) to a dissemination
seminar for the SDG activities and provided them with the Project Operating Manuals,
including procurement guidelines and SDG manual. Some MEDs were unable to participate
in the seminar, and other key municipal officers such as the Financial Officer of the
Municipality Education Directorate and the Procurement Officer of the Procurement
Department were not well informed about the procurement rules under the project at the
outset. This sometimes resulted in poor cooperation from procurement officers, particularly
for the introduction of school-based procurement. Stronger engagement of these key
municipal officials from the early stage of the project implementation would/could have
helped in smoother implementation at the beginning. Nevertheless, this issue was raised
during the first phase of project implementation, and the procurement training was provided
to MEDs and communication with finance officers was improved before the MTR.

Education Management Information System (EMIS): When the MSGTs tried to collect
data required for school selection, it was found out that the EMIS, which had been designed



                                                7

and initiated under the EHP, was unable to produce necessary school statistics and population
data, or to monitor enrollment, attendance, repetition, dropout and completion rates. In order
to substitute the EMIS data, the PMU/PCU and KEC collected quantitative data already
available such as statistical reports on attainment and attendance, Regional Education Office
(REO) reports on dropouts, and reports on poverty from the Center for Social Work (Social
Welfare Officer) for school selection. The MSGTs also involved various stakeholders,
including civil society members and parents, REO, ROSO, and MED, in the school selection
process to compensate for the lack of reliable population and poverty data. For monitoring,
the PMU/PCU and KEC also collected qualitative evidence from project schools.

Mid Term Review (MTR):
    From Project Management Unit (PMU) to Project Coordination Unit (PCU): Even
    though the PMU did not function well in the beginning because of a lack of management
    capacity, the MEST showed stronger ownership over the Project and made an important
    decision to restructure the PMU as the PCU, as discussed above. The new PCU members,
    in closer coordination with the MEST, were committed and competent in implementing
    the project. The redefinition of the unit's roles and responsibilities and the extension of
    the Kosovo Education Center's (KEC's) role successfully contributed to the revitalization
    of project implementation.

    EMIS: The September 2004 Aide Memoire commented that the EMIS implementation
    was unsatisfactory as the EMIS team was unable to produce reports and data were
    unreliable. This status was confirmed during the first phase of the MTR mission in
    December 2004. While the then-TTL and the PMU decided to revise the monitoring
    indicators, and tasked the KEC to collect necessary data from schools through ROSOs,
    the MEST took over the responsibility for the EMIS from the PMU, established a
    Working Group on the EMIS and started a reform process in January 2005. Owing to
    these efforts, the EMIS started to make considerable progress after the MTR. The new
    EMIS system was designed to produces 19 key indicators,7 eight of which were in
    compliance with the international ranking defined by the UNESCO Institute of Statistics
    (UIS). The pilot test of the new system was completed and nationwide installation and
    training of schools and municipalities began towards the end of the project
    implementation period, but is not complete yet.

CIDA Funds: Because of the successful implementation of the SDG component of the
Project and its positive impacts on school development, the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) signed a grant agreement with the Bank to co-finance the
EPIP at the end of 2004. The total amount was US$900,000, consisting of $150,000 for


7Includes students per class, repetition rate, percentage of repeaters, survival (promotion) rate, attendance rate,
drop-out rate, percentage of female students, transition rate to tertiary education, transition rate to secondary
education, student teacher ratio, class size, share of students attending school in different shifts, share of
unqualified teachers, share of teachers without qualifications for the subject they teach, share of teachers
needing specific pedagogical or subject training, share of teachers receiving specific pedagogical or subject
training, percentage of female teachers, percentage of school space requiring immediate renovation and per
student expenditure.




                                                          8

consulting services and $750,000 for school grants. CIDA's contribution enabled the Project
to provide the SDG for about 100 additional schools.

In sum, the wide dissemination of the project information helped gain consensus on school
selection at the municipal level, and built a strong ownership of the project by key
stakeholders. The success was recognized by a development partner, and mobilized
additional financing. The MTR successfully encouraged the government to take stronger
ownership over the project implementation. The project completed within the original time
frame, and reached more number of schools than originally planned.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: The M&E design is discussed in terms of: (i) the original monitoring indicators,
(ii) the revised monitoring indicators after the MTR, and (iii) a linkage from the inputs to the
outcomes. First, as illustrated in the Data Sheet, "F. Results Framework Analysis" above,
the original monitoring indicators were not well specified in terms of target values, and some
indicators such as net and gross enrolment rates were immeasurable because relevant
population data was not available in the post-conflict situation. Second, the revised
monitoring indicators were better specified, but some of the target values might have been
ambitious given a short time frame of the project (a little over three years). Third, even with
the revised indicators, it would still have been difficult to isolate the impact of the project
alone and measure short-term and long-term outcomes of the SDG without conducting a
rigorous impact evaluation study because the SDG has provided a relatively small amount of
one-time grants for each school, and many other factors could have influenced the outcomes.

M&E implementation: PMU/PCU took three key actions to address the inability of EMIS to
produce some of the quantitative data (especially the ones which require population census to
estimate the ratio). First, PMU/PCU and the facilitation NGO, KEC adopted collection
methods of quantitative data which do not depend on EMIS. The KEC started collecting data
to produce indicators from schools which were participating in the SDG activities. The
statistics used in F. Results Framework Analysis above are based on this data source. The
project team's flexible and practical response to the constraints of EMIS is highly
commendable. Primarily due to high mobility and migration of families and students, it has
been extremely difficult to track enrolment, attendance, drop-out and completion rates of
each school. In addition, the absolute number of minority students or students in targeted
schools is rather small that capturing changes/trends in percentage terms could possibly be
misleading.

Second, given the difficulties in collecting reliable quantitative data, the PMU/PCU and KEC
also collected qualitative data from schools participating in SDG activities as part of their
regular monitoring activities. They interviewed school principals, teachers, students and
parents and observed the impacts of SDG projects in school. The PMU/PCU regularly
produced a narrative report twice a year, which described achievements through the SDG
activities.




                                                 9

Third, the MEST took the initiative to carry out an independent external evaluation of the
project to: (i) assess the main outcomes of the EPIP, in particular those of the SDG
component, and (ii) to draw a number lessons relevant for education policy and future
initiatives (see Annex 6 for key findings).8 An international consultant, who is familiar with
the education systems in the region and Kosovo, together with two national consultants
carried out the evaluation through: (i) administration of survey questionnaires with a sample
of participating schools, (ii) field visit to schools, (iii) interviews and focus-group interviews
of key stakeholders (officials of MEST MED, REO, ROSOs, school principals, teachers
parents and students), and (iv) desk review of existing reports and data.. The comprehensive
analysis of the SDG component by the external evaluators provides deeper understanding of
the quality of project implementation and lessons for future project designs.

M&E utilization: In addition to monitoring and evaluation of the quantitative indicators, the
PMU/PCU together with the ROSOs visited project sites and provided technical support for
schools and municipalities regularly. As discussed in the previous section, findings from
these visits were documented in progress reports, and used to improve project
implementation. As discussed above, the government conducted an external evaluation of
the SDG component. These monitoring and evaluation exercises informed the government
of the effectiveness of the SDG and the ways forward to improve the program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard management performance: The environmental category for this project is C,
and therefore, no environmental assessment was necessary.

Procurement: Taking into account the weak capacity within the PCU/MEST, an
international procurement advisor was hired. This significantly improved and expedited the
procurement under the project. Overall, the procurement under the project was rated
moderately satisfactory

Two post reviews were conducted in December 2003 and June 2006. The review observed
that schools impressively carried out the procurement in line with the agreed procedures in
the procurement handbook, and with the participation of a representative from parents,
teachers and school management. The proper application of procurement procedures was
attributable to ROSOs who according to the schools were highly committed to provide timely
advice. The filing system of the procurement documents could have been improved for
audits or reviews by the Bank, however.

Audit Reports: Project financial management was handled satisfactorily. The financial
monitoring reports were prepared and submitted on time. Project financial statements were
audited on an annual basis by independent auditors and all audit reports had unqualified
(clean) opinions. Financial management supervision was carried out in two main ways: (i)



8Crisan, Alexandru, Rexhaj, X. and Saqipi Blerim. External Evaluation: School Development Grants (SDG)
Component (December 2006).




                                                    10

review of the project's quarterly financial monitoring reports as well as the project's annual
audited financial statements and auditor's management letters; and (ii) during the Bank's
supervision missions, review of the project's financial management and disbursement
arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements. During the
implementation of the project, the PIU was trained in all aspects of disbursement and
financial management after taking over the responsibilities that were originally carried out by
the Grant Unit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Building on the success of the SDG, the MEST and stakeholders who were involved in the
development of the Strategy for the Development of Pre-University Education in Kosovo:
2007-2017 decided to include SDG as one of the priority activities in the education sector.
Such "mainstreaming" in the education strategy is expected to contribute to the sustainability
of SDGs.

Recognizing the critical importance of SDGs and education in the new status of Kosovo,
CIDA approved a follow-up education project, EPIP-II (CA$ 500,000) in March 2007, with a
renewed and stronger focus on quality improvement and social inclusion. It is designed to
provide SDG to schools with a high proportion of students from minority groups and poor
families, strengthen the EMIS, and finance the Project Coordination Team (PCT) which will
manage the implementation of SDG and EMIS components. In addition, the Post-Conflict
Fund approved a contribution of US$704,000 in May 2007 to provide SDG for more schools,
and to strengthen school services at the municipality level. To enhance the sustainability, the
amount of grant to each school is smaller than the EPIP-I, and communities are expected to
contribute more when they can. The Bank is currently supporting the MEST to prepare a
new education project which builds on the EPIP and to support the implementation of the
Pre-University Education Strategy 2007-2017.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: The direction of the original Project Development Objective (PDO), aiming
higher educational attainment and improved access of vulnerable groups, was appropriate
and relevant at the time of project preparation because the attainment level, especially at
secondary level, in Kosovo was lower compared to other neighboring countries. While the
emergency reconstruction of school facilities had made some good progress immediately
after the war, the government still needed to ensure that all students have access to primary
and secondary education. The PDO remains relevant today because enrollment in secondary
education, particularly among ethnic minorities and girls, remains as an issue. The PDO
indicators were rather ambitious for a 3-year project because attainment (defined as the
highest grade achieved for adults who have left school) includes the entire adult population
which is not covered by the project, and schools alone cannot easily tackle attainment and
access issues for vulnerable groups even with the improved management capacity at the
school level.



                                              11

Design: As discussed above, the simple and focused project design was extremely relevant
when the capacity of the Implementing Agency was still in a flux in a post-conflict
environment. The strong emphasis on participation of school boards and community was
also instrumental in the post-conflict context of Kosovo where the enthusiasm and demand
for education by communities was high. Requiring a minimum of five percent contribution
to school grants by communities was an effective way to increase their ownership. As will
be discussed later, the contribution from the communities exceeded the original expectation.
The demand-driven SDG component was particularly appropriate to make use of the limited
education budgets by developing the capacity of schools to better manage themselves with
the help of communities and parents. The project design included capacity building of
school directors and municipal officials in planning and prioritization decision-making,
establishment of the MSGT and SGAB, creation of functional communication and interaction
between municipalities and schools, and institutionalization of the EMIS functions. This
contributed to strengthening the foundation of the education system, which was crucial for
Kosovo's education system to focus more on quality improvement in education.

Implementation: Because it was the first time for the government to introduce the SDG
scheme, the school selection process was carefully designed to ensure that intended
beneficiaries would be selected. First, after the MSGT pre-selected beneficiary schools, the
list of schools was approved by the SGAB. Upon SGAB's approval of the pre-selection, the
selected schools started preparing school development plans, which had to be approved first
by the MSGT, and then by the SGAB. The Regional Outreach School Officers (ROSOs),
officials of the Municipality Education Directorate, and PCU members among others pointed
out that the procedures for school selection and proposal approval were too long and
repetitive, and caused delays in the implementation of SDG activities especially during the
first year. For instance, the ROSOs made best efforts to train schools to prepare proposals on
time, but delays in proposal approval and disbursement of grants resulted in loss of
momentum among schools and communities. This issue was addressed during project
implementation, and the approval process became more timely from the Round 3 onwards.

Under the regular government budgetary system, schools are not allowed to have a bank
account or a sub-account under the MED for the management of government budgets.
Teachers and other staff receive their salary directly to their personal bank account. In other
words, schools generally do not know how much budget they are allocated for teacher
salaries, educational materials, utilities, repair and maintenance, and other recurrent costs.
As a special arrangement under the EPIP, SDG-recipient schools were allowed to open a sub-
account under the MED to ensure that the grants were allocated to and spent by recipient
schools. This sub-account system gave schools more flexibility and transparency of the
budget than the regular system.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO was to improve educational attainment at primary and secondary education levels
and to enhance access of vulnerable groups to education. In terms of attainment, while the
dropout rates for ethnic minorities decreased by 43 percent from 2002/03 (15 percent) to



                                                 12

2004/05 (8 percent). Survival rates for ethnic minorities were mainly positive, but varied
among different grades. Survival rates for girls (and boys) in secondary schools seem to
have deteriorated. The mixed results on survival rates may be due to a lack of reliable data
and the high mobility of students in the post-conflict environment. In terms of access, some
schools experienced a 400 percent increase in enrolment in one year, but it does not
necessarily mean that a large number of out-of-school children started enrolling in those
schools, but there might have been a large inflow of families into this neighborhood.
Likewise, negative increases in enrolment do not necessarily mean that more children are
dropping out of school. Hence, without carefully tracking each individual student, it is
extremely difficult to measure enrolment, attendance, drop-out and transition rates in a highly
mobile society particularly after the war.

As the Project covered more than half the schools in Kosovo, the overall reduction in drop-
out rates from 1.67 percent in 2002/2003 to 1.17 percent in 2004/2005 for primary and lower
secondary, and from 2.32 percent to 2.07 percent for upper secondary, as shown in Table 1,
may suggest that the Project might have contributed to this reduction. Given that the project
covers more than half the schools in the country, national-level data may be more suitable to
assess its overall impact. Moreover, national-level data is less affected by internal migration
compared to school level data.

                        Table 1: Primary and Lower Secondary Education
                                  Number of Students and Drop-outs

                                      No. of
                                    students                         Drop-outs

                                                Total      %        Boys      %        Girls     %
  Primary and Lower
  Secondary
   2002/03                            340,257    5,682     1.67     3,075       54     2,607       46
   2003/04                            354,918    5,703     1.61     2,654       47     3,049       53
   2004/05                            355,339    4,141     1.17     1,932       47     2,209       53
  Upper Secondary
   2002/03                             66,968    1,554     2.32       992       64       562       36
   2003/04                             68,361    2,433     3.56     1,570       65       863       35
   2004/05                             68,976    1,428     2.07       980       67       446       33
  Source: Progress Report July-December 2005

The external evaluation report argues that SDG had a very important impact on institution
building of the education system and other positive and unintended effects for the sector,
which is expected to contribute to the achievement of the PDO, increasing education
attainment including for vulnerable groups.9 This assessment is supported by the


9Specific examples include: introduction of computers and other electronic equipment such as language
learning facilities and radio station made schools a more interesting place to be and students are more
attracted to these classes and school in general; and in one of the 10 selected pilot schools, which
introduced a transportation service, attendance of pupils increased by 7 percent and 5 pupils who had
dropped out returned to complete their education. Moreover, even though many of the SDG activities


                                                      13

implementation completion report prepared by the MEST, PMU/PCU's progress reports, and
discussions with school principals, government officials, UNMIK officials and other
international donors who almost unanimously praised this project as a success during the ICR
mission. The project has certainly built capacities of schools to prioritize, plan and
implement school projects and to mobilize community participation. It has also contributed
to "a thorough public awareness raising concerning the importance of education reform for
any dynamic society; the development of a system of functional and valuable grass-roots
processes that can be considered a prerequisite for any further educational decentralization; a
number of relevant evolutions in the functioning of central, municipal and school
administration; and a general increase of public and community participation in education."10

Targeting: Once the resources were allocated to municipalities, the MSGTs prioritized
schools in poor conditions and those with a higher proportion of vulnerable groups such as
ethnic minorities, poor, girls and disadvantaged children as grant recipients. Therefore, even
though not all SDG activities directly targeted the disadvantaged children, a higher
proportion of those children in each municipality benefited from the project due to the school
selection favorable to them. The project also successfully benefited other targeted
beneficiaries, including all children and local stakeholders in the selected schools through the
improvement of planning, management and strengthened participation for improved school
environment and teaching and learning quality.

Coverage: The Project originally targeted to provide grants for approximately 275 primary
and 55 secondary schools. After the target was met by Round 4, the SGAB discussed
whether successful schools in the earlier Rounds should be awarded grants for the second
time, or to include a new set of schools in Round 5. The decision was made to cover more
schools in Round 5, but also successful repeaters in Round 6. As summarized in Table 2, a
total of 604 projects were carried out and 90 schools implemented the second project in the
6th round. The total number of students who benefited from the Project was around 300,000.
The number of total recipients was much more than the original target. The types of
project included (i) improvement in learning environment - infrastructure, (ii) computers,
musical instruments, and equipment, (iii) textbooks and clothes, (iv) teacher training, and (v)
transportation. Many of the improvements in learning environment concerned basic and
critical infrastructural needs such as sanitation facilities, water supply, and roofs. This was
inevitable as many schools in Kosovo still lack basic infrastructure. After guidance from the
SGAB, the percentage of infrastructure improvement slightly declined in Rounds 4 and 5,
and again increased in Round 6.


might not have explicitly targeted girls as main beneficiaries, some activities benefited girls more than
boys. For instance, a school director succeeded in bringing back female drop-outs in secondary school by
encouraging them to attend computer courses. A primary school set up fences for school boundary and
improved security condition, which encouraged some parents to send their daughters to school.
Transportation service and provision of textbooks and winter clothes enabled children in rural areas and/or
from poor families to attend school.

10Crisan, Alexandru, Rexhaj, X. and Saqipi Blerim. External Evaluation: School Development Grants (SDG)
Component (December 2006).




                                                    14

                                  Table 2: Percentage of SDG projects

                                 Round       Round      Round      Round      Round      Round 6
                                     1          2          3           4         5                   Total

 Total no. of schools                 96          107       102         108       101           90      604
 Improvement in learning
 environment                         58.2       70.2       62.2        38.0      50.0         62.0    55.8
 (infrastructure)1 (%)
 Computers, musical
 instruments, equipment              27.6       13.8       38.8        38.0      38.6         20.8    29.6
 (%)
 Textbooks and clothes (%)           16.3         7.4        5.1       23.1      18.8         14.2    14.1
 Teacher training (%)                 6.1         1.1        2.2        0.9        5.0         0.0      2.6
 Transportation (%)                   3.1         7.4        3.1        0.0        1.0         2.0      2.7
  Source: PCU, Project Monitoring and Evaluation (June and November 2006)
  1Included sanitation facilities, fences, roofs, water supply, sports grounds and classroom renovation.

The expansion of school coverage rather than repeating the school grants in disadvantaged
schools had a positive impact on the entire school system. Because this Project was seen by
then as a successful and important project to help schools build their management capacity
and mobilize community for school development, the MEST wished to provide this
opportunity to more schools. The wider coverage with a smaller amount for each recipient
was a better decision from a sustainability point of view because it prevented a limited
number of schools to depend on the government support too much.

3.3 Efficiency

Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The nature of the Project, in which 85 percent of the total project budget was provided for
public schools as grants, makes conventional measures of efficiency in terms of NPV/ERR
not applicable. Instead, what can be assessed is cost effectiveness ­ whether the school grant
scheme was a cost effective way of improving student participation in comparison with other
alternative approaches as debated in the PAD.

First, cash transfers to compensate for out-of-pocket expenditures for poor children was
considered but rejected, because other factors such as gender and location were more
important reasons for dropouts than poverty. Some schools indeed succeeded in retaining
girls by building school fence and others improved attendance by providing transportation
facilities, textbooks or winter clothes. The school grant scheme, therefore, allowed schools
to flexibly adopt effective measures suitable for their children.

Second, the provision of more physical access such as roads and transportation and/or more
schools and classrooms is considered not suitable for this project. Given the size of grants
and objectives of the project, it was a right decision not to invest in new school buildings,
and some schools were able to arrange small scale transportation facility within the school
grant scheme.




                                                         15

Third, the school grant played a catalytic role, and mobilized Euro 1.2 million as
contributions from parents and communities in addition to Euro 3.8 million provided by the
Project. While the requirement by the project operational manual was a minimum of 5
percent contribution by communities, communities mobilized as much as 22 percent of the
total SDG program. The school grant approach was effective in enabling schools to develop
their own strategies to help children participate in school. While the allocation formula could
have been more flexible to take into account the level of school needs, the simple and
transparent formula was perhaps the best way when introducing a new system with the weak
management capacity at the central and municipal levels.

Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return was calculated for this project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory for the following reasons. First, one of
the key PDOs ­ reduction of dropout among ethnic minorities ­ has been achieved, and most
of the intermediate outcome indicators have been achieved. SDGs have considerably
contributed to institution-building in the sector, especially at the school to think about and
address the issue of educational attainment. As the independent evaluation recognizes, the
project contributed to institutional changes, including strengthening the foundation of the
education system through capacity building of school directors and municipality officials in
planning and prioritization decision-making, establishment of the MSGT and SGAB, creation
of functional communication and interaction between municipalities and schools, and
institutionalization of the EMIS functions. These institutional changes and positive
achievements are extremely important outcomes for achieving the PDO and further
development of the education system in Kosovo.

Second, the project aimed to address the critical issue of educational attainment especially for
low-income groups, ethnic minorities, and girls with a simple and focused project design
which was appropriate for the post-conflict and uncertain context of Kosovo. The project
objective remains relevant today since human capital (better educated population) is
considered to contribute to the post-conflict reconstruction, poverty reduction and growth in
Kosovo. Indeed, the government recognizes education as one of their top priorities and plans
to increase its public expenditure, and education is likely to be the focus of the next Bank's
interim support strategy.

Third, the project achieved all the intermediate objectives, and often exceeded the targets,
without any additional resources. In addition, the project mobilized more resources from
communities than originally anticipated. In some cases, the amount of contributions made by
communities for SDGs was more than the grant allocated by the project.

In sum, despite some weaknesses in the quantitative evidence, the overall outcome of the
project is rated moderately satisfactory because the PDO was and still is relevant, the project



                                               16

achieved various positive results especially in institutional building which will contribute to
the achievement of the PDO, and most of the intermediate outcome indicators were achieved
in an efficient manner.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As discussed in Section 3.2 above, schools in poor conditions and those with a higher
proportion of vulnerable groups such as ethnic minorities, poor, girls and disadvantaged
children were prioritized for the SDG program. Therefore, even though not all SDG
activities directly targeted the disadvantaged children, a higher proportion of those children
in each municipality benefited from the project due to a school selection process favorable to
them. In addition, the community participation which is expected to contribute to social
development at local level was a hallmark of this project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Schools developed planning and management capacities under the SDG component of the
project. Through monitoring and supervision activities, a PCU member assessed that about
60 percent of the total SDG-funded schools are now able to produce school development plan
(SDP) on their own, while others still need further assistance to develop their capacities.
Furthermore, about 30 percent of the SDG-funded schools have succeeded in obtaining other
funds by using their newly acquired skills to prepare project proposals. In some
municipalities, e.g., Dresden, the MED organized training on SDP and proposal preparation
to meet demand from non-selected schools. Hence, the Project has strengthened the capacity
of schools ­ both project supported and non-supported schools ­ to develop themselves.

At the municipal level, relevant officials received training in EMIS, who then trained schools.
They have gained operational skills but are yet to improve analytical skills to make the best
use of the collected data.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The School Development Grants program reached almost twice as many schools as originally
planned and created unexpectedly strong public awareness for educational development. As
a result of strong appreciation for the SDG activities among schools, parents and
communities, the government has included the SDG as one of the priority areas in the new
Strategy for the Development of Pre-University Education in Kosovo: 2007-2017.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

An independent consultant team conducted an external evaluation of the School
Development Grants component based on interviews and questionnaires with stakeholders.
See Annexes 5 and 6 for details.




                                               17

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

SDG: More than half of schools in the entire country have received training on school
development planning and implementation. Although the SDG was a one-time investment,
many schools have built up foundations for school management by school directors, school
boards, and the community. Some schools indeed took the initiative to prepare a second-
phase of school development plan and mobilized resources from local donors. In addition,
building on the experience of this project, the government decided to mainstream the
School Development Plans in its education strategy; the Pre-university Education
Strategy2007-201711 aims for all schools to develop the capacity to prepare an SDP and
MEDs to monitor and help schools in preparing SDP by 2008.

EMIS: As the EMIS was redesigned towards the end of the project implementation period,
the installation of the new system and actual data collection and analysis could not be
completed in all schools before the project completion date. In order to sustain the system,
two measures have been taken. First, the EMIS contractor is obligated to provide technical
support during the one-year warranty period, and the EMIS section of the MEST will
continue data collection and training activities with support from the contractor. The PCU,
together with the contractor is in the process of preparing an Action Plan for monitoring and
supporting schools for hardware and software implementation, data collection and analysis.
Second, the MEST is preparing a budgeted action plan to institutionalize the EMIS activities
after 2008, including an appointment of IT expert/contractor. Indeed, the Pre-university
Education Strategy includes "establishment of the education data processing infrastructure"
under the Objective: Qualitative and efficient governance and management of the education
system.

The institutions built under the EPIP ­ a practice of developing and implementing school
development plans, active school boards, community participation, a fund flow mechanism to
schools, partnerships with municipalities and schools, the involvement of local NGO ­ are
likely to continue contributing to the achievement of the PDO. Recognizing SDG and EMIS
as a critical activity in the Pre-University Education is a good indication of the government's
ownership of the initiative, and commitment to address the issue of educational attainment,
especially for the vulnerable groups. The recently approved CIDA and the Post-Conflict
Fund grants will continue supporting the SDG and EMIS components for the next two years.
The Bank is also currently supporting the MEST to prepare a new project which would build
on the EPIP and help the government implement the education strategy in Kosovo.

The continued uncertainty on Kosovo's Status is not likely to have a significant impact on
the sustainability of development objectives achieved under the EPIP because the Project has
substantially contributed to the capacity building at school level, improved public awareness
in education and the importance of monitoring and evaluation based on quantitative and
qualitative data among school principals and local education officers. This local capacity


11MEST, 2007, Strategy for the Development of Pre-University Education in Kosovo 2007-2017.




                                                        18

will be maintained, whatever the outcome is on Status.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As mentioned earlier, it was a wise and appropriate decision by the Bank Team to design a
simple and focused project when the government's institutional capacity was still weak. The
overall direction of the PDO and monitoring indicators was appropriate, but more specific
indicators were necessary at the time of project preparation. The Bank team had IT experts
assess the capacity of EMIS established under the EHP, even though the assessment could
not fully capture the weaknesses that the initial design had.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

Since the project inception in July 2003, the Bank Team supported the MEST and PMU/PCU
to implement the project through supervision missions. The MTR took place in December
2004-February 2005, and identified various problems with the EMIS and Project
Management components. The MTR triggered the MEST to solve those problems and
revitalize the project implementation. The Bank team took the initiative to mobilize
additional funding from a development partner (CIDA) who was interested in the initial
achievement of the SDG. The Bank team also saw the opportunity to support the MEST in
developing the pre-university education strategy, and the project was able to finance
technical assistance and the team emphasized the importance of public consultation. After
the MTR, the supervision and implementation support missions became even more frequent
(every 2-4 months), and video and audio conferences with the PCU were held in between to
troubleshoot the implementation bottlenecks and keep the momentum of project
implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The assessment of the implementation capacity of the government and the needs of the
education sector was appropriate, which was reflected in the simple project design directly
impacting the improvement of schools. The Bank Team provided close supervision
throughout and especially towards the second half of the project implementation, which
helped the timely completion of the project with almost 100 percent disbursement. However,
the ambitious choice of target values for monitoring indicators and the weak assessment of
the EMIS capacity at the entry stage caused problems for the progress of the SDG component
and the M&E activities during the implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance



                                               19

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

At the time of project preparation and commencement, the Department of Education, Science
and Technology (DEST) of the UNMIK had just been transformed into the Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology (MEST). Unfortunately, the Constitutional Framework
for Provisional Self-Government, adopted in May 2001, did not clearly specify the division
of responsibilities between the UNMIK and the MEST. Neither was there sufficient capacity
building support for the MEST prior to the transfer of responsibilities. The weak government
capacity resulted in the initial difficulties in the implementation of the project, but it turned to
be an opportunity to diminish the role of UNMIK and strengthen the MEST's ownership over
the Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing Agency             Performance
                                The Project implementation stagnated at the beginning in the
                                absence of the MEST's strong leadership to improve the PMU,
                                which did not have a clear division of individual responsibilities
                                or monthly work plan for project implementation. Given that
                                the MEST just took over the new responsibilities from the
                                DEST of the UNMIK, the slow start was probably
Ministry of Education,          understandable.
Science and Technology
(MEST), and the Project         Despite the initial difficulties with the PMU and the EMIS
Coordination Unit within thecomponent, the MEST demonstrated stronger leadership and
MEST                            ownership of the project after the MTR. The PCU/MEST
                                provided close support to schools and municipalities through
                                frequent visits and communication, which led to the successful
                                implementation and completion of the project. The
                                participatory and timely process for finalizing the Pre-
                                University Education Strategy 2007-2017 was also
                                commendable.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Given the transitional period when the government just began building its own capacities, the
initial difficulties in the project implementation are understandable. The MEST has
demonstrated the stronger leadership towards the second half of the project implementation
and commitment to sustain project achievement after the project completion, which led the
MEST/PCU to successfully complete the project in time with almost 100 percent
disbursement of IDA funds as well as additional funding from CIDA which was not
originally planned.



                                                  20

6. Lessons Learned

Simple and focused project design is appropriate for a post-conflict context and
accompanying weak capacity of the government. As repeatedly discussed, the simple and
focused project design was one of the most important factors for the successful
implementation and completion of this project in post-conflict Kosovo. It is crucial to take
into account the institutional capacities of the government and the Implementing Agency
when designing a project.

Community participation is instrumental in rebuilding the education system in a post-
conflict environment. A strong emphasis on community participation and school boards was
particularly relevant for post-conflict environment in Kosovo where the enthusiasm and
demand for education was high, which needs to be captured and capitalized upon. As
mentioned above, the contribution by communities for SDG greatly exceeded the
"requirement." This is likely to contribute to the sustainability of SDG. Community
participation is also critical for the current uncertain status of Kosovo; schools and
communities could play an important role in sustaining and improving the quality of
educational services at local level.

PDO indicators need to be carefully selected, and target values should be set in a realistic
manner. It is crucial that PDO indicators are reasonable for the length of the project, and
measurable monitoring indicators are selected for which baseline data can be collected at the
time of project preparation. It is important to assess the feasibility of data collection at the
outset and select indicators which can be collected with certain reliability.

Capacity building in procurement procedures at the outset of the project is critical.
Capacity building in the Bank's procurement procedures by providing user-friendly training
for all stakeholders from the MEST, PMU, REO, MED and schools in the very initial stage
of the project implementation is critical. Also, while the central and local administration is
building their own capacity in administering schools, it is important to strengthen the
capacities of school boards and communities in assisting schools in managing themselves
because active and close involvement of school board members and communities in school
management help motivate schools to improve the quality of education that they provide for
children.

Having a local NGO as a facilitation agency is an effective approach for school grants and
management. Having a competent local NGO (Kosovo Education Center) that is well
received by and closely tied with the MEST/PCU as a facilitation agency helped the
MEST/PCU overcome the initial difficulties and make persistent efforts to make progresses
during the project implementation. It is important to increase participation of NGOs in the
project activities for these types of projects, not only at the central level, but also at the
municipality level, to help advance cooperation between school and community.

Defining the roles and responsibility of each stakeholders at the outset is key for successful
implementation. This is perhaps a common sense for any project, but not always easy to put
into practice. It is important to ensure that Project Operating Manuals, in a user friendly



                                                 21

manner, clearly define objectives, responsibilities, and expected outputs for each stakeholder
involved in the implementation, and is distributed to and understood by all schools,
municipalities and regions. In particular, the supporting mechanism by the MED and REO
for schools needs to be clearly defined, including teacher training, provision of transportation
and security, and M&E activities. Continuous consultations and workshops at various levels
would facilitate communication and enhances the clear understanding of roles and
responsibility.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The MEST and UNMIK reviewed the draft ICR and had no comment (the letter is attached in
Annex 7).

(b) Cofinanciers

Co-financing partner, CIDA, also reviewed the draft ICR, and agreed with the assessment.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                      ComponentsAppraisalEstimate  Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                   (USD M)         Estimate (USD M)        Appraisal
    1. SCHOOL PLANNING AND
       SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT                3.79                3.79           100.00
                        GRANTS
2. EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
        INFORMATION SYSTEM               0.30                0.30           100.00

    3. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                0.51                0.51           100.00
              Total Baseline Cost        4.60                4.60
            Physical Contingencies       0.00
               Price Contingencies       0.00
              Total Project Costs        4.60                4.60           100.00
                   CIDA for SDG          0.90                0.90
       Total Financing Required          5.50                5.50           100.00



(b) Financing
                                            Appraisal
      Source of Funds            Type of                    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                              Cofinancing Estimate (USD
                                                M)       Estimate (USD M)    Appraisal

 Borrower                                           0.10              0.10        100.00
 CANADA: Canadian
International Development                           0.90              0.90        100.00
Agency (CIDA)
 IDA GRANT FOR POST-
CONFLICT                                            4.50              4.50        100.00




                                            23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component I: School Development Grants (SDGs)

The Municipal School Grant Teams (MSGTs) and the School Grants Approval Board
(SGAB) were established as the central and municipal bodies to evaluate and approve the
SDG proposals. The original implementation plan was to cover four rounds (about 80
schools each round, or 330 schools in total) by June 2005. However, due to some delays in
the initial project activities and availability of extra funding, six rounds were organized in the
period October 2003-December 2006. Each round consisted of the following major activities:
(i) selection of approximately 100 schools from seven regions; (ii) training for
representatives of selected schools in school development planning (approximately 7 training
sessions on regional level, 2-days each); (iii) follow-up meetings on school development
plans/Experience sharing (approximately 7 meetings on regional level, 1-day each); (iv)
training for representatives of selected schools in school project planning (approximately 7
training sessions on regional level, 2-days each); (v) outreach support to schools in preparing
school grant proposals; and (vi) submission of school grant proposals to the PMU.

As summarized in Table A-1, a total of 604 projects were carried out and 90 schools
implemented the second project in the 6th round. The total number of students who
benefited from the Project was around 300,000. The number of total recipients was much
more than the original target. The types of project included (i) infrastructure improvement,
(ii) computer cabinets, musical instruments, and craft equipments, (iii) textbooks and clothes,
(iv) transportation, and (v) teacher training. Despite the wide range of potential activities, the
flexible design of SDG resulted in a large percentage of investment in infrastructure. These
infrastructure investments concerned mostly basic infrastructural needs such as sanitation
facilities, water supply, and roofs. After guidance from the SGAB, the percentage of
infrastructure improvement slightly decline in Rounds 4 and 5, and again increased in Round
6.

                                Table A-1: Percentage of SDG projects

                                 Round       Round      Round      Round      Round      Round 6
                                     1          2          3           4         5                   Total

 Total no. of schools                 96          107       102         108       101           90      604
 Infrastructure
 improvement1 (%)                    58.2       70.2       62.2        38.0      50.0         62.0    55.8

 Computer cabinets,
 musical instruments, craft          27.6       13.8       38.8        38.0      38.6         20.8    29.6
 equipments (%)
 Textbooks and clothes (%)           16.3         7.4        5.1       23.1      18.8         14.2    14.1
 Transportation (%)                   3.1         7.4        3.1        0.0        1.0         2.0    2.76
 Teacher training (%)                 6.1         1.1        2.2        0.9        5.0         0.0    2.55
  Source: PCU, Project Monitoring and Evaluation (June and November 2006)
  1Included sanitation facilities, fences, roofs, water supply, sports grounds and classroom renovation.




                                                         24

Component II: Improving the Education Management Information System

The newly developed EMIS has been piloted in 30 schools and is in the process of nation-
wide installation. MEDs officers have been trained.

The EMIS unit in the MEST has taken over the responsibility for EMIS from the PMU/PCU.
The EMIS Unit/PCU, together with the contractor has prepared an Action Plan for software
installation in the remaining schools, and an Action Plan for monitoring and supporting
schools for hardware and software implementation, data collection and analysis.

The objective of this component was to help strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the
EMIS, which had been designed and initiated under the EHP. However, as soon as the EPIP
commenced and the MSGTs tried to collect EMIS data required for school selection, it was
discovered that the EMIS was unable to produce necessary school statistics and population
data. Therefore, the EMIS was not able to help monitor enrollment, attendance, repetition,
dropout and completion. The September 2004 Aide Memoire commented that the EMIS
implementation was unsatisfactory as the EMIS team was unable to produce reports and the
data were unreliable. This status was confirmed during the MTR mission in December 2004.
While the then-TTL and the PMU decided to revise monitoring indicators, and tasked the
Kosovo Education Center (KEC) (the local NGO facilitating the SDG component) to collect
necessary data from schools through ROSOs, the MEST took over the responsibility for the
EMIS from the PMU, established a Working Group on the EMIS and started a reform
process in January 2005. Due to these efforts, the EMIS finally started to make considerable
progress after the MTR.

After it was recognized that the EMIS developed under the EHP was unable to produce M&E
indicators as expected, the system had to be redesigned. The pilot test of the new system was
completed and nation-wide installation and training of schools and municipalities began
towards the end of the project implementation period. The new system produces 19
indicators, eight of which are in compliance with the international ranking defined by the
UNESCO Institute of Statistics (UIS).

Component III: Project Management

The Project Management Unit (PMU) was established under the MEST for the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the EPIP. Most of the initial staff had already
been contracted under the EHP and were involved in the preparation of the EPIP. However,
from the very beginning of the project implementation, it was clear that the PMU was not
functioning well. The PMU was restructured as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) after the
Mid Term Review in the mid to late 2005. The new PCU was more a coordinating, rather
than managing, unit closely supervised by the MEST. The management responsibility for the
EMIS component was also transferred from the PMU to the EMIS unit of the MEST. The
new PCU members, in closer coordination with the MEST, contributed to revitalization of
the project implementation and the nearly 100 percent of disbursement of the project
budgets.




                                              25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

As discussed under Section 3.3 Efficiency in the main text.




                                             26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
        Names                     Title               Unit  Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Peter Darvas        Sr. Education Economist          AFTH2  Task Team Leader
Peter Buckland      Sr. Education Specialist         MNSHD  Education Specialist
Jim Stevens         Sr. Operations Officer           HDNED  Operations
Shobhana Sosale     Operations Officer               HDNED  Operations
Jeanine Braithwaite Sr. Social Projection Economist  HDNSP  Social Protection
Maria V. Vannari    Sr. Procurement Specialist       ECSPS  Procurement
Mark Walker         Lead Counsel                     ECSPS  Legal
Hiran Herat         Consultant                       AFTNL  Financial Management
Joe Formoso         Lead Finance Officer             LOAG1  Disbursement
Anna Goodman        Program Assistant                ECSHD  Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR

Olav Rex ChristensenSr. Financial Management
                    Specialist                       ECSPS  Financial Management

Elona Guika         Financial management Analyst     ECSPS  Financial Management
Plamen Stoyanov
Kirov               Procurement Specialist           ECSPS  Procurement

Belita Manka        Procurement Analyst              ECSPS  Procurement
Maria V. Vannari    Sr. Procurement Specialist       ECSPS  Procurement
Keiko Miwa          Sr. Education Economist          ECSPS  Task Team Leader
Sachiko Kataoka     Education Economist              ECSHD  ICR Author
Lorena Kostallari   Sr. Operations Officer           ECSHD  Operations
Gentjana Sula       Operations Officer               ECSHD  Operations
Kseniia Malenko     Finance Analyst                  LOAG1  Disbursement
Anahit Poghosyan    Office Manager                   ECSHD  Program Assistant
Svetlana Georgieva
Raykova             Program Assistant                ECSHD  Program Assistant

Carmen Laurente     Sr. Program Assistant            ECSHD  Program Assistant




                                             27

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)

Lending
                    FY03                                    45                219.18
                                    Total:                  45                219.18

Supervision/ICR
                    FY03                         Not Available                   0.26
                    FY04                                    15                 84.44
                    FY05                                    25                108.18
                    FY06                                    39                108.25
                    FY07                                    22                 60.30
                                    Total:                 101                361.43




                                        28

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The government's Project Closing Report summarizes `Opinions and Comments of Project
Beneficiaries' based on interviews and questionnaires as follows:

According to the interviews and respondents from the questionnaire successful impact in
fulfilling the objectives (attendance and reduction of drop-out rate) of the project have had
particularly schools that have provided students' transport and schools that developed
projects on supplying students with school books and warm clothes.

    -   "The children are happier and feeling safe after we have set up the fence. Since the
        school is close to a highway, there were a number of accidents every year while
        children were playing or crossing the road. Many of them have endured serious
        injuries or were even killed. Now we also have a group of five Roma students who
        are attending our school because they feel safer here, although they can attend another
        school which is nearer to their place where they live".
    -   "This grant has helped us to implement a very important project for our school. In
        order to fulfill the requirements for this project we had to design school development
        plan which helped us in further implementation of our plans. Having set up a
        development plan we have attracted other donors so now we are in the process of
        implementation of two other projects with an approximate fund of 200.000 Euros".
    -   "EPIP project has initiated and now with MED's support we managed to ensure
        transportation for our children, which is crucial for them especially in winter when
        the weather conditions deteriorate. Without this grant, school attendance would have
        been very low".
    -   "Grants offered by the World Bank are the only financial support that we received. It
        is a great support for our municipality since our budget is very low. I will personally
        be engaged in managing of these grants by schools in order to fulfill project
        requirements".
    -   "The children are now actively involved in using computers rather than watching
        television or wondering around the village".
    -   "The essential component in making a difference in the classroom is that teachers
        know how to teach. Once teachers have these skills, then improved infrastructure or
        transport can improve the process. There is no value exhorting teachers to do better,
        work harder or provide initiatives, if they do not know how to facilitate effective and
        meaningful learning".
    -   Attendance has improved, the success has increased since the classes are cleaner and
        there is no interruption during the classes for lightening the fire and there is no dust".
    -   Definitely the lessons have become more attractive for most of the pupils and they
        likely spend their free time in school being engaged with different activities".
    -   "Small grants big effect, EPIP is one of the most successful projects in education field
        after the war".




                                                29

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The aims of the external evaluation were: (i) to assess the main outcomes of the EPIP project
in terms of effectiveness, efficiency, relevance, and sustainability; and (ii) to draw a number
of education policy lessons that could offer a thorough frame of reference for future similar
or new initiatives. A number of quantitative and qualitative methods were used for data
collection and analysis. Below are extracts from the evaluation report.12

Key Findings: In terms of general findings, from the point of view of EPIP development
objective, the conclusion of the evaluation is the following: at this point in time, it is difficult
to offer concrete project-related statistical data in order to quantitatively prove that the
Project development objective has been fulfilled. However, in terms of general outcomes -
also confirmed by the qualitative data collected throughout the evaluation process - the
results of EPIP prove to be positive. More than that, in a paradoxical way, EPIP displays an
important number of `unexpected results' (see more on this aspect in Chapter 7 ­
Conclusions and recommendations). These results have not been planned or foreseen in the
initial project design. Nor the initial development objective or the body of specific objectives
in EPIP made reference to them. These "unexpected results" ­ extremely important for an
emerging educational system - are: a thorough public awareness raising concerning the
importance of education reform for any dynamic society; the development of a system of
functional and valuable grass-roots processes that can be considered a prerequisite for any
further educational decentralization; a number of relevant evolutions in the functioning of
central, municipal and school administration; a general increase of public and community
participation in education. These are important outcomes and any further development in
Kosovo education should take them into account. Therefore, there is a clear feeling
according to which the project was more than successful in addressing Kosovo education
systemic needs. Acting at grass-roots level, EPIP had without any doubt a systemic impact.

As for the general evaluation questions this approach has showed that the project was
effective, efficient, and relevant; it also can be considered sustainable. In terms of
effectiveness, based on the evidences collected during the evaluation approach one can
conclude the following: (a) as compared to the period in which the Project was launched, the
current trend of dropout, attendance and completion rates by gender and ethnic groups is a
positive one in Kosovo (and here the Project had an important contribution alongside other
interventions in the system); (b) the selection of schools for EPIP was open, fair and
transparent; (c) the project has contributed to a better involvement of school boards,
communities, parents, students and other stakeholders in school management; (d) the project
and the school grants contributed to the improvement of teaching and learning environment
at the school level.

In terms of efficiency, (a) the project has contributed to an increase of expenditure per child
and the increase is even more relevant when one refer to smaller schools from remote areas;



12Crisan, Alexandru, Rexhaj, X. and Saqipi Blerim. External Evaluation: School Development Grants (SDG) Component (December 2006).




                                                                 30

(b) savings have been made from the International Competitive Bidding of computers and the
amounts have been reallocated to school grants.

In terms of relevance all stakeholders and participants agreed that EPIP fully responded to
schools' needs, national strategies and priorities (first of all those related to decentralization
and increasing school autonomy), as well as international partners' priorities (see the
involvement in the Project of KEPD).

As for the sustainability criteria (a) the project appeared to strengthen or add value to the
reform effort in the education system in Kosovo (awareness raising, developing school-based
processes, fostering ownership and school autonomous thinking and action, networking,
etc.); (b) the project fostered capacity building in education (professional development of the
staff, better management at all levels, improving planning, strategizing and prioritizing
capacities etc.); (c) `partnering' and networking have been developed in order to foster the
quality of education; (d) the project has complemented and created linkages as well as
synergetic or multiplier effect with education projects implemented by other partners (KEPD,
UNICEF); (e) the project has fostered and consolidated the political will to bring the project
to scale and mainstream the concept and principles of the project in the education system.

Conclusions and Recommendations: The new Education Strategy 2007-2017 and its
underlying action plans recently designed by Kosovo educational stakeholders clearly show:
(a) the need for consolidating and strengthening the changes that have already taken place
and (b) the need for a paradigm shift from extensive and centralized development to an
intensive and decentralized type of development; more exactly, to the development and
implementation of appropriate mechanisms that better ensure and monitor the quality of the
education. In this context the following are recommended to MEST:

A. Project-related Recommendations
        (A-1) To continue and extend the EPIP capitalizing on its current results and lessons
        (A-2) To refine the idea of a Grant Scheme shifting the focus from infrastructure to
        quality assurance and improving school-based processes
        (A-3) To ensure better connection between the Project development objectives and
        the nature of concrete School Projects from the initial phase of their selection
        (A-4) To capitalize and mainstream the Project Results (best models and practices)
        (A-5) To strengthen and upgrade the current PCU.

B. Education Policy-related Recommendations:
        (B-1) Grass-roots Processes should be fostered and integrated into the new Education
        Strategy
        (B-2) National vision and strategy for `school improvement practices' as well as a
        special `school-improvement function' in the Ministry and at the level of the
        Municipal Education Directorates should be developed and implemented as soon as
        possible
        (B-3) Human resources already prepared in the Project should be efficiently used for
        fostering grass-roots developments all over Kosovo




                                                31

       (B-4) Complex model of professional development of the staff in topics related to
       school development and school improvement should be designed and implemented
       (B-5) Clear cut monitoring and evaluation mechanisms throughout the system should
       be designed and implemented in order to foster quality evolutions
       (B-6) Internal/local student census model should be developed and implemented in
       order to monitor enrolment as well as implementing a nation-wide consolidated EMIS
       (B-7) Larger Alliances, Partnership and Networking for educational change should be
       developed with other central and local institutions.

A number of recommendations go to REO and MED as follow:
       (A) Strategic planning should be fostered at the level of REO and MED
       (B) Strategic alliances should be fostered at municipal level
       (C) Quality monitoring functions and arrangements should be gradually created and
       fostered at municipal level

In terms of conclusion, one can say that schools have advanced a lot in the last few years.
Among many other systemic inputs that influenced their development, the Project had an
important effect in fostering a positive trend in changing schools' `internal culture' (see
Chapter 3). A special remark should be made on students. They are the best asset Kosovo
education currently has. Most of the meetings and focus groups organized with students gave
the image of a brand new generation, open-minded, flexible, and prepared to assume the
challenge of an ever changing society. Youngsters met ­ in big urban areas or in small and
remote rural schools ­ all have strong opinions, clear vision and an assumed ownership on
their own future. Their current level reflects without any doubt the fact that an important
paradigm shift has happened in the quality of Kosovo education in the last few years.
However, a number of comments and recommendations to schools and educational
administration will be offered below:

       (A-1) The new `culture of strategic planning' should be extended in all schools
       (A-2) Organizational culture should be fostered and a new participatory management
       style should be encouraged and gradually implemented in schools
       (A-3) Better task allocation and delegation of responsibilities should be fostered in
       Kosovar schools
       (A-4) Project monitoring and internal evaluation mechanisms should be built into the
       project design
       (A-5) Parent and community involvement should be fostered.

As a general conclusion, there is an important political will in the system to capitalize on the
project results and bring it to scale and mainstream its concept and principles in the education
system. In fact, important decision makers at central level foresee the continuation of the
Project with some important Educational Policy Shifts: (a) focusing EPIP towards Quality
Assurance and Quality Increase; (b) integrating EPIP mechanisms, procedures and
achievements in the large-scale national education policy of decentralization; (c) creating
wider alliances of stakeholders and mobilizing the nation for educational change.




                                                32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The government prepared a Project Closing Report (PCR) on March 2007, which reflects the
results of the External Evaluation: School Development Grants Component conducted in
December 2006 (as summarized in Annex 6). Below is an extract from the PCR.

Executive Summary

1. School Development Grants
The objective of the School Development Grant (SDG) was to improve educational
attainment in primary and secondary education and enhance access of vulnerable groups to
education in Kosovo. The main and concrete objective of SDG component was to provide
funding to schools to help increase enrollment, attendance and retention of primary and
secondary education, as well as improving the quality of teaching and learning.
From the point of view of EPIP development objective someone can conclude that in the
present conditions, it is difficult to offer concrete project-related statistical data in order to
quantitatively prove that the Project development objective has been fulfilled. However, in
terms of general outcomes the results of EPIP prove to be positive. More than that, based on
our observations, EPIP displays an important number of unexpected results that have not
been foreseen in the initial project design. These unexpected results are extremely important
for the educational system: a public awareness raising concerning the importance of
education reform; the development of a system of functional and valuable grass-roots
processes that can be considered a prerequisite for any further educational decentralization; a
number of relevant evolutions in the functioning of central, municipal and school
administration; a general increase of public and community participation in education.

As for the sustainability criteria the project appeared to strengthen or add value to the reform
effort in the education system in Kosovo and that: (a) awareness raising, developing school-
based processes, fostering ownership, etc.; (b) the project fostered capacity building in
education; (c) the project has complemented and created linkages with education projects
implemented by other partners (KEPD, UNICEF).

The total number of schools which received grants based on their SDP was 514. While
another 90 schools were awarded for the second time based on their successful
implementation of their first projects from previous five rounds.

The total number of grants awarded by schools in EPIP was 604 schools among them 534
primaries and 70 secondary levels. The total number of the grant amount was 3.886.642
with a community contribution of 1.214.872. The total amount for this three year project was
5.101.514 euros.
The total number of students in all Kosovo that have benefited from EPIP is around 300.000.
Not only students have benefit from this project; there are a number of other indirect
beneficiaries such as admin workers, teachers and other MED and Procurement Officers who
have received some professional training on finance and procurement.




                                                 33

2. Education Management Information System (EMIS)
The objective of EMIS was strengthening and ensuring the sustainability of the Education
Management Information System to monitor and evaluate enrollment, attendance, repetition,
dropout, and school completion by students, as well as account for school-age children not
participating in the school system. EMIS currently is in its final phase, the main SERVER
has been confabulated and it has been tested see (http://smia.epip-ks.org) and in cooperation
with the working group MEST ­ EPIP and REPRON are installing and testing the server
within the schools.
The preliminary trainings for the users have been provided and the manuals have been
delivered and have been approved. The company is obliged by the contract to support EMIS
one year after the completing the admission/delivery procedure.

3. Project Coordination Unit (PMU) (PCU)
The objective of this component was the effective implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the proposed project, through the provision of goods and consultants' services.
Te PCU has managed to assume the administration and implementation responsibilities for
the project in close cooperation with MEST, UNMIK, REO, MED and other stakeholders has
managed to complete the project successfully.

Lesson Learned and steps for the future

Generally looking the perception of all participants and beneficiaries of the project is that the
project had a great contribution in Kosovo educational system in primary and secondary level.
Most of the stakeholders involved in the project think that enrolment, attendance and
completion rates increased whereas drop-out rate decreased in the schools that awarded
projects. This is the perception of all relevant parties involved in the project.
EPIP has addressed two major priorities in Kosovo education: improving school
infrastructure and improve the quality of teaching in both primary and secondary schools.
Obviously this was a good step towards the improving the quality of the education and the
schools and the communities are looking for new projects. Unfortunately because of the
current economical situation, the Educational System in Kosovo in the future will need
international support in order to implement other necessary school projects.
In order to improve future projects in the future the following steps should be undertaken:

    -   More responsibility, ownership, cooperation within the stakeholders
    -   More cooperation and communication between different levels from schools to
        MEST;
    -   More ownership and access to financial management of the PCU.
    -   Encourage community participation in school projects,
    -   The community participation in improving the school quality should be permanent
    -   To develop projects which will create better teaching and learning environment
    -   To develop projects that will improve students performance
    -   To foster teachers' creativity to provide quality learning
    -   Operationalization of the EMIS with all components. A higher level of support is
        requested, in order to make the system operates more successfully.




                                                34

Conclusion

The EPIP was set up in the right time and in the right place. Kosovo after the 1999 war has
inherited a completely destroyed infrastructure including destroyed and burnt schools. It has
also inherited and academic style of learning based on teacher-centered methodologies.
There was an immediate need to intervene in both improving the ruined infrastructure and in
fostering and improving learning and teaching activities and students performance.
All this would have been impossible to achieve without Government's support and especially
without international donors.

The WB grant has supported the schools to do their first step towards the fulfillment of their
most necessary needs which they considered as their priority for a better functioning.
As a general conclusion, one can say that schools have advanced a lot in the last few years
and this is also thanks to EPIP support which schools considered that was direct and
indispensable. Among many other systematic inputs that influenced their development, the
Project had important effect in fostering a positive trend in the change of schools regarding
planning, managing and teaching.

Thanks to this project students from both urban and rural areas ­ all have strong opinions,
clear vision and an assumed ownership of their future. Their current level reflects without
doubt that a good move forward has happened in Kosovo education in the last few years, and
that the education system is in a good path moving forward in educating the new generations
so in order to become part of wide World's education system.




                                              35

Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR




              36

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The ICR was shared with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the
cofinancier of this project before it was finalized. CIDA commented that this ICR has
"addressed all of the major project achievements and challenges."




                                                37

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Project-related Documents
  -   Project Operating Manual Vol. I , Vol. II: School Grants Manual & Procurement
      Handbook
  -   School Grant Pilot Project Report: Final Report (February 2004)
  -   Progress Reports (various issues), Project Narrative Reports (various issues)
  -   Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports (June & November 2006)
  -   EMIS and Its Transferal under MEST: Background report for Jan ­ Jun 2005 (June
      2005)
  -   MEST, EPIP Project Closing Report (March 2007)
  -   Dukagjin Pupovci (Kosova Education Center), Report over the Periodical Evaluation
      of the Project (May 2004)
  -   Dukagjin Pupovci (Kosova Education Center), Monitoring Report (December 2006)
  -   Crisan, Alexandru, Rexhaj, X. and Saqipi Blerim. External Evaluation: School
      Development Grants (SDG) Component (December 2006)
General Education-related Government Documents
  -   Strategic Plan for the Development of Education in Kosova (2002-2007): Better
      Education for all ­ Nothing happens in education until it reaches the pupils (January
      2003)
  -   Strategy for the Development of Pre-University Education in Kosovo: 2007-2017
      (March 2007)
  -   Strategy for Development of Higher Education in Kosova (2005-2015) (final
      version), 2004
  -   Kosovo School Funding Handbook: Financial Management Information for
      Municipal Education Directors and School Directors
  -   Handbook on Municipal Education Governance
  -   Education for Rural People in Kosovo: Conditions, Challenges and Strategies for
      Development (February 2004)
  -   Salihu, Linda, Kosovo Social Assessment (draft report) (undated, but around 2002-
      2003)
  -   Regulation No. 2002/19 on the Promulgation of a Law adopted by the Assembly of
      Kosovo on Primary and Secondary Education in Kosovo (which introduced
      mandatory school boards for all schools)
World Bank Documents
  -   Project Appraisal Document on Education Participation Improvement Project (April
      2003)
  -   Project Appraisal Document on Education and Health Project (May 2000)
  -   Implementation Completion and Results Report on Education and Health Project
      (November 2004)
  -   Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Transitional Support Strategy (July 2002)
  -   Interim Strategy Note for Kosovo for the Period FY06-FY07 (March 2006)
  -   Poverty Assessment (2001 and 2005)
  -   Kosovo Medium Term Public Expenditure Priorities (2002)
  -   Kosovo Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (June 2005)


                                            38

                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 35406

        20°00' E                                         20°30' E              To Kraljevo               21°00' E                                             21°30' E      This map was produced by the Map
                                                                                                                                                                            Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                         To Kraljevo                                                        and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                            this map do not imply, on the part of
                       SERBIA                                                                                                                                               The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                            on the legal status of any territory, or
             KOSOVO                                                                                                                                                    ^    any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                 To Nis     such boundaries.




                                                                                Ibar                                                                    Toplica



                                                                                               Leposavic´                                                                                          ^
                                                                                              (Leposaviq)                                                                                  To Nis

                                                             S
  43°00' N
                                                                      Gazivodsko  E                                                                                                                           43°00' N

                                                                         Jezero          ^            R                      B                        I                     A               To Leskovac


 M                                                                                  Zvecan
  MONTENEGRO
         NTENEGRO                                                Zubin Potok      (Zvecan)          Mitrovica         Podujevo

                                                                                                    (Mitrovicë)
                                                                                                                 ^                       Batlavsko                                Jablanca
                                                                                                                                           Jezero
To Ivangrad                                                                                                  Vucitrn

                                                      Istok                                                  (Vushtrri)

                                                     (Istog)
                                                                                Srbica                                    Lab
                                                    Beli                                                                               ^
   To                                                       Djurakovac
Ivangrad                                                Drim                        Klina                   Obilic´                PRISTINA
                                                                                                            (Obiliq)              (PRISHTINË)
                                  Pec´                                                                                                         Gracanicko
                                                                                                                                                        
                                 (Peje)                                                              Glogovac             Kosovo Polje            Jezero

                                 ^                                    Klina (Kline)                  (Gilogoc)            (Fushë Kosovë)                Novo Brdo              Kosovska

                              Decani                                                                                                                   (Novo Berde)            Kamenica                  To Leskovac
                             (Decan)                        ^
                                                     Radonjicko                                                    Sitnica   Lipljan (Lipjan)
  42°30' N                                             Jezero                 ^                                                                                                                               42°30' N
                                                                          Malisevo
                                                Ereni                                                                                                             Gnjilane
                                                    k           Orahovac                                                                                          (Gjilani)
                                                                (Rahovec)                                   Stimlje
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                           (Shtime)       ^                                       Morava
                                         Djakovica                                                                                                        Binacka
                                          (Gjakove)                                            Suva Reka           Urosevac
                                                                                               (Suhareke)           (Ferizaj)
                                                                                                                                                        Vitina
                                                                                                                                                  ^      (Viti)
                                                                                                         ^                Gabrica
                                                                                                                                             Kacanik
          A L B A N I A                                                                                  Strpce                            (Kacaniku)
                                                                                        Prizren       (Shterpce)
                                                                  BeliDrim


                                          Liqeni i                                                                                     Lepenac
                                          Fierzës                                                                                                                              F Y R
            To Durrës                                                                                                                                            M A C E D O N I A

                                                                             Gora
                                                                          (Dragashi)                                                                             SKOPJE              To Sofia
                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                    42°00' N
                                                                                                                                                                 21°30' E

                RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°
                SELECTED CITIES*                                                                                                       AUSTRIA                      20°
                                                         To Durrës                                                                                         H U N G A R Y                                MOLDOV
                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                         SLOVENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                    R O M A N I A            A
                                                                                                                                                    CROATIA
                PROVINCE BOUNDARY
                                                                                            To Bitola                                                   BOSNIA AND
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                    Adriatic    HERZEGOVINA    SERBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Black
                                                                                                                                                                                       B U L G A R I A             Sea
                                                                                                                                                                               KOSOVO

                                                                                      To Bitola                                      ITALY              MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                             FYR
  *When two city names are shown, Serbian spellings                                                                                                       Sea            MACEDONIA

  are shown first, followed by Albanian spellings in parentheses.         0         10                                                                         ALBANIA
                                                                                                  20        30 Kilometers                                                                                            40°
  When only one name is shown, the spelling is the same in                                                                        40°

  both languages.                                                                                                                  Tyrrhenian                                            Aegean
                                                                          0                  10                20 Miles                                                     GREECE                             TURKEY
                                                                                                                                       Sea                                                  Sea

     20°00' E                                            20°30' E                                         21°00' E
                                                                                                                                                                     20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                              APRIL 2007

