Do =ntor
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONlY
Repit No. 12841-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
MAY 16, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12841 ID
Type: SAR
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
IThk document has a nestrcted distxibon and may be ued by reipiens only in the performance of
heir official duties. Its contents may not oterwise be discled wito  World Bank authormizon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1994)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00      = Rp 2,105
Rp 1 million = US$475
FiSCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEtAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USE)
BAPPENAS  -    National Development Planning Agency
DAA          -    Directorate of Academic Affairs
DG           -    Director General of Higher Education
DGHE         -    Directorate General of Higher Education
DRCSD        -    Directorate of Research and Community Service Development
GDP          -    Gross Domestic Product
GPA          -    Grade Point Average
HEDP         -    Higher Education Development Project
IUC          -    Inter-University Center
MOEC         -    Ministry of Education and Clture
NGEC         -    National Graduate Education Council
PIU          -    Project Implementation Unit
REPELITA.  -    Five-Year Development Plan (REPELITA V - 1989/90-1993/94 and
REPELITA VI - 1994/95-1998/99)
S1           -    Bachelor's Degree (BA)
S2           -    Master's Degree (MA/MS)
S3           -    Doctoral Degree (Ph.D.)
SOE          -    Statement of Expenditure
URC          -    University Research Council
URGE         -    University Research for Graduate Education Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONFSIA
UNIVERST R7SEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCAI[ON
(URGE) PROJECT
LoAN Am Pam r SUMMY
Borrower:      Republic of Indoniesia
Amount:        US$58.9 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable In 20 years including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Desription: The overall goal of the project is to improve the quality of graduate
education in Indonesia. Specifically, the project would aim at:
increasing competitive funding for domesdc graduate education and
university research; strengthening procedures for selecting grant and
fellowship proposals, integrating university research activities with
graduate education; strengthening the research capacity and
dissemination of research results in universities; and attracting highly
qualified candidates for domestic graduate education. To achieve these
objectives the project would: (a) provide assistance for improving the
planning and management capacity for graduate education and
university research through the development of the University Research
Council (URC); and (b) support competitive research grants and
fellowship programs to provide incentives for high quality graduate
training and research activities.
Benefits and
Risks:         The project would lead to increased fiuding for domestic graduate
education and university research, in line with public investment
priorities in the sector. With the responsibilities assigned to it, the
URC is expected to play a catalytic role in enabling the Government
to invest more resources in graduate education and university research,
and increase efficiency in the use of these resources. At the end of the
project, an estimated total of 1,500 graduate student places would have
been improved through project investment under various grant and
fellowship programs. With fellowships supported by the project, about
500 students would proceed to their graduate studies, most of whom
would be employed in the public and private universities, and 400
university staff with demonstrated potential would complete their
graduate studies. The project would also strengthen the capacity of the
Directorate General of Higher Education to select proposals for
university research and graduate education on a competitive basis.
This would enable a concentration of research funding in institutions,
This document has a restricted distinbuion and may be used by recipients only in the peomance of their
I official duties Its contents may not othemwise be disclosed withoul Wodd Ban autkhorization.  l



- ii -
principal investigators and teams that are able to conduct research and
advanced scientific training activities to an internadonal standard.
Competiton for grants and fellowships will significantly improve the
present incentive structure, rewarding high quality research and
training outputs. To alleviate potential risks for the project, the
following measures have been incorporated into project design. To
ensure that the project is within the implementation capacity of the
Government, the nunber of new progranms has been reduced, and
contracting and dministratve requirements have been simplified.
Also, provision has been made for twinning arrangements between the
URC and a foreign research council with similar functions. To ensure
that project funding will be directed to high quality activities, the
investment level for each program has been determined during project
preparation through a careful assessment of: (a) the size of currently
available resources; (b) the size of the beneficiary population; and (c)
expected levels of competition. Monitoring and evaluation activities by
the URC have been designed in detail, with provisions for
discontinuation of funding for non-performers. Technical audits have
also been built into the project.
FAtiuated Project Costs:                    Local        Foreign      Total
US$ milion
Imnroving Planning and Management (URC)      4.8           10
Competitive Grant and Fellowship Programs
Center Grant Program                        9.4         25.7         35.1
Research Grant Programs                    19.3          12.5        31.8
Graduate Education Programs                15.2           2.2        17.4
Scientific Publication Programs             1.2          0.8          2.0
Subtotal                                   45.1         41.2         B6 
Total Base Costs                         2^             42.2        2ZA
Contingencies:
Physical                                    0.3          0.0          0.3
Price increase                              3.4           1.8         5.2
Total Cost La                                           44.0        2L
Fiacing Plan:
Govenmment of Indonesia                    38.7          0.0         38.7
IBRD                                       14.9         44.0        58.9
Total                                      X              
La Includes identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$1.3 million equivalent.



- Ill -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year   1995    1996      1997     1998     1999      2000
Annlual            3.0      11.0     14.0     13.0      12.0      5.9
Cumulative         3.0      14.0     28.0     41.0      53.0     58.9
Rate of Return: N.A.
Powerty Category: N.A.
Map: IBRD No. 25644



- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CHAPTER 1. ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND HUMAN
RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT    ....................                               1
A. Economic Context .       ..................................  1
B. Education Sector in Indonesia  ........       ....................  1
C. Higher Education Sector  ..........         .....................  2
D. Issues for Graduate Education and University Research ............ .
E. Government Strategy ...........  6
CHTER 2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED..                                 8
A. Overview.                                                                8
B. Lessons Learned .................................... 9
C. Rationale and Strategy for Bank Involvement ............  ..... I0
CHAPTER 3. THE PROJECT ...........   11
A. Project Objectives ...........  11
B. Project Description ...........  11
C. Project Management and Implementaion  ...........   14
D. Monitoring and Evaluation ...........    15
E. Readiness of the Project ...........  16
CHAPTER 4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ..... ......   17
A. Costs ........... 17
B. Financing ...........                                                   19
C. Procurement ...........                                                 20
D. Disbursement ...........  23
E. Accounts and Audits ...........  24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in Janmary,
1994 comprising Messrs./Mmes. Sachi Takeda (Economist, Task Manager), Rozany Deen
(Senior Operations Officer), Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (Higher Education and Science and
Technology Specialist), Carl Hall (Consultant, Engineering and Research Management
Specialist), and Carol Ball (Operations Analyst). Peer reviewers were Messrs./Mmes. Thomas
Eisemon, Barbara Bruns, Lawrence Wolff and William Rees. Marianne Hug, Director,
EA3DR, and Himelda Martinez, Chief, EA3PH, have endorsed the report.



-V
Page No.
CHAPTER 5. BENEFrTS AND RISKS  ..........................                                     25
A. Benefits .........................................  25
B. Risks  ..........................................   25
C. Sustainability   ...........               ..........................   26
D. Environmental Impact ................................   26
CHAPTER 6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..... 27
ANNEXRS
1.  Bank Group-financed Education and Training Projects   ..............   28
2.  i-rogram Summaries ....................................   29
3.  University Research Council (URC) Policies and Operating Guidelines                 ....  34
4. Implementation and Management, anc Terms of Reference for the
Secretariat and the Project Implementation Unit  ..................   41
5.  Consultant Services Requirements  ...........................   45
6.  Summary Implementation Schedule  ..........................   46
7.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ...........................   47
8.  Component Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators ..................  50
9.  Supervision Plan  ......................................   52
10. Expenditure Accounts by Components and Year  ..................   53
11. Selection, Contracting and Rex.lew ResDonsibilities .................   55
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  .........................   56
13. Selected Documents and Data in Project Files ....................  57
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the Directorate General of Higher Education ....                .......  58
2.  Organization of the University Research Council ..................   59



CHAPTER 1
ECONOMIC CONTEXT AND
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
A. ECONOMIC CoNTEr
1.1        Indonesia has achieved an impressive long term GDP growth rate, averaging
over 6 percent annually in the past 25 years. Structural reforms successfully laid a
foundation for the diversification of the economy and export-led growth, especially in
labor-intensive manufacturing sectors. The incidence of poverty has been reduced
considerably through the robust growth and improved social services. These past
achitvements have brought Indonesia to a new threshold of development, where the
challenge is to sustain growth, in order to make the transition to a middle-income country.
1.2         Human resources development will play an important role in addressing this
dhallenge. The continued stnrctural change from an economy dominated by agriculture
into a newly industrializing economy will lead to a further shift of employment
opportnities from agriculture to industry and services. At the same time, it is not clear
that Indonesia can maintain the current level of growth even if its labor costs remain low,
in an environment of rapid technological change with strong labor-displacing trends and
more developing countries adopting export-oriented growth strategies using cheap unskilled
labor. To make the transition to a higher productivity economy, quality upgrading at all
levels of education will be necessary. Particularly important is the quality of graduates
from higher education institutions for meeting the needs of the economy for better
scientific, technical and managerial human resources. In order to adapt advanced
technologies successfully, it will also be increasingly importnnt for Indonesia to have a
critical mass of researchers capable of keeping abreast of scientific and technological
innovations world-wide.
B. EDUCATION SECrOR IN INDONESIA
1.3        In Indonesia's first 25-year development plan, educational policy focused
on increasing access to schooling at all levels. Even among the poorest one-fifth of the
population, the net enrollment ratio reached 83 percent in 1992. Net enrollment ratios for
junior and senior secondary education were estimated to have reached 41 percent and
26 percent, respectively, in 1992. At the tertiary level, a gross enrollment ratio of
10.5 percent was achieved through considerable expansion of the private higher education
sector, and through locating at least one public university in almost all of Indonesia's
provinces. These participation rates compare well with Asia's average, and are also



- 2 -
respectable relative to those in newly industrializing economies in East Asia at comparable
stages of development.
1.4         Financing of Education.  Public expenditures for education averaged
3.4 percent and 3.0 percent of GDP respectively during the past two five year development
plan periods, REPELITA IV (1984/85 - 1988/89) and REPELITA V (1989/90 - 1993/94),
including both routine and development expenditures. Again, these figures compare
favorably with other developing countries, but are lower than the 3.5-4 percent range for
countries such as Korea, Mexico, Brazil, Thailand and Singapore. Intra-sectoral allocation
patterns reflect the Government's commitment to basic education. The share of primary
education in total government educational expenditures has remained relatively stable at
46 percent in the past five years. The share of secondary education has been around 27
to 28 percent. For the tertiary sector, the sectoral share has been modest at 13 to
15 percent. In the short to medium term, basic education will continue to receive priority
in public educational investments. As a consequence, higher education will face stiff
competition for public resources. Indeed, the past expansion of higher education has been
supported primarily through increased private financing in the form of tuition. The overall
level of p;ivate financing is estimated at about 80 percent of total tertiary expenditures.
Even in public institutions, the share of tuition in routine expenditures incre2sed from
10 percent in 1985 to over 20 percent in 1992.
C. HGHER EDUCATION SECTOR
Accomplishments
1.5        Indonesia's higher education system developed rapidly from a small base ir
the early post-war period enrolling about 2,000 students to a full fledged system of 1.9
million students in 1992. Access has expanded rapidly as the gross enrollment ratio grew
from 1 percent in 1970 to 10.5 percent in 1993. Female parlicipaion was 36 percent for
undergraduates and 46 percent for diploma students in 1991/92 in public universities,
representing continuous improvement. Promoting regional equIt has been the driving
force behind the establishment of many public universities countrywide. Progress has been
made in improving nernal efficency as the average duration of undergraduate programs
was reduced from 6-8 years in the mid-1980s to 5-6 years in recent years. The system has
become highly dfferendated with a full range of institutions from universities,
polytechnics, teacher training colleges, instit. - and academies to an open university.
Currently, there are 51 public institutions and over 1,000 private institutions, with about
two-thirds of the total enrollment in private institutions. There has also been rapid
diversifaton of flnandng through increasing shares of private financing both through
cost recovery in public institutions and expansion of private institutions.
Challenges
1.6         Educational Quality. The q-ality of higher education has been a key
concern for the Government, especially given the rapid expansion of private sector
enrollments over the past decade. In the early 1980s, the Government began to focus its
investments, supported extensively by external donors, on quality improvement. Programs



-3 -
were launched to provide quality enhancing inputs, such as highly qualified teaching staff
through graduate level fellowships, and laboratory and library facilities. To provide
curriculum oversight, a system of 11 consortia was established within the Directorate
General of Higher Education (DGHE).  Recognizing weaknesses in the 'xisting
accreditation system for private institutions, DGHE has recently commissioned a task force
for developing a single, autonomous body responsible for quality assurance for both
private and public institutions. There are other factors that are important for improving
educational quajity that have not been adequately addressed in the past. These include:
(a) limited domestic graduate education capacity to respond to the staff upgrading needs
of the higher education system; and (b) weak research capacity to keep university staff
updated in their respective subject fields.
1.7         Inadequate Graduate Education Programs. There is an increasing need
for domestic graduate education for upgrading the qualifications of university teaching
staff. About 70% of university staff in public universities and 90% of private university
teaching staff do not have advanced degrees. Access to graduate education programs has
been extremely limited with only about 7,700 places in Master's programs, and about
1,100 places in Ph.D. programs in 1991. Graduate program enrollments constituted
0.7 percent of the total undergraduate enrollments in Indonesia, as compared with
2.4 percent in Thailand; 2.7 percent in Brazil; 3.3 percent in Mexico; 5.7 percent in
Korea; and 3.2 percent in Chin-. Weak domestic graduate education capacity has led to
an extensive use of overseas fellowships for staff upgrading not only for the higher
education sector but for the civil service as a whole. In recent years, over 600 university
teaching staff have been dispatched for graduate education overseas every year, with an
estimated total of about 1,500 students abroad in 1993. Similarly, the development of
professional human resources for the rest of the public sector relies heavily upon overseas
fellowships. During 1990-92, an estimated total of 2,000 civil servants were sent to
foreign graduate programs almost all of them funded by external assistance. In the past
year, there has been a rapid increase in the number of newly accredited graduate programs
Including those in private universities. Increasing pressures for expansion of programs are
adding to difficulties in improving the quality in the programs. Clearly, increasing
attention needs to be given to qualitative improvement of domestic graduate education
programs in order to build capabilities within Indonesia to sustain the effort for staff
development.
1.8         Weak Research Capacity. Research activities in universities have been
limited, and consequently university teachers have not used research as a tool for keeping
themselves abreast of their respective subject fields.  The overall productivity of
Indonesian researchers is low.  The number of scientific articles originating from
researchers in Indonesian institutions in internationally recognized scientific journals per
year is about a third of thcse from Thailand and Kenya, a quarter of Nigeria, less than
10 percent of Korea, and 2 percent of China. The lack of credibility of domestic graduate
education is also directly related to the inadequate research capacity in Indonesian
universities. 4nother problem is that research in universities has often been carried out
in isolation from graduate education. This not only has adverse implications on the quality
of graduate education, but also on research capabilities of universities which could benefit
from effective use of graduate student resources.



-4-
1.9         Achieving Equitable Access. In order to provide for greater regional equity
in the quality of higher education, the Asian Development Bank and some bilateral donors
are financing projects where universities in Jpdonesia's outer islands are targeted for
quality improvement. Providing access to higher education to children from all income
groups has been more difficult. Only the richer half of all households send their children
to tertiary education, with access to public institutions limited to the wealthiest 30 percent.
The central cause of the inequitable access is the selectivity at the lower stages of
education. For instance, for middle income households, there is a decline in the net
enrollment ratio from nearly 90 percent for primary education to 40 percent for lower
secondary education and 20 percent for the senior secondary level. Clearly, the social
selectivity issue has to be addressed at lower levels of education before higher education
can become more accessible to students from lower income families, and the Government
is reviewing options for reducing costs for poorer students in junior secondary schools.
Within higher education, increasing attention has been given to providing financial
assistance to needy students, especially as the level of tuition continues to increase. For
instance, starting in the early 1990s, a new scheme of scholarships based on financial
l eeds was initiated in public institutions. Indonesia's experiment with a student loar.
scheme ended with its termination owing to large default rates and repayment problems
that were costly to the Government. Under the on-going project fnanced by the Asian
Development Bank, the past experience with the student loan scheme will be reviewed in
order to determine possible future options for fmnancial aid to students.
1.10        External Efficdency. There has also been a concern that une-mployment
among graduates of tertiary institutions has risen. However, the incidence of graduate
unemployment has been concentrated at the graduation age-group and has been small for
older age-groups. Graduate unemployment may then reflect long job search periods and
inflated expectations on the part of graduates. Nonetheless, future expansion of access is
likely to require: (a) improvement of the quality of tertiary education; (b) a review of
possible skills mismatch; as well as (c) improved labor market information for prospective
graduates to help them make effective educational and career decisions. The Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC) is conducting a tracer study of recent graduates in order
to provide a sound analytical basis for further actions.
1.11        Defining the Role of the Government: Priorities for Public Investments.
The main question in higher education is how scarce public funds can be used most
efficiently to complement private financing to address these weaknesses. Clearly, public
resources must be targeted to priority areas where private financing is inadequate. These
would include:  (a) quality upgrading, especially through staff development and
investments in subject fields that require high levels of investment; (b) q.ality
improvemert of graduate education and research activities; and (c) f.irncial assistance
schemes for students from lower income families. In addition, there are distinct actions
the Government needs to take to improve the efficiency of public investments. For public
institutions, greater fnancial autonomy needs to be granted to facilitate effective resource
allocation decisions at the institutional level, including those related to staffing, promotion
and remuneration. Another important step is to establish an incentive framework to
encourage public and private institutions to invest in quality upgrading. Public subsidies
should be increasingly tied to some measure of performance.



5 -
D. ISSUIS FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION AND UNVERTY RESEARCH
1.12        Inadequate Fecus on Graduate Education and Research. Among the
priority areas for public investment in higher education, graduate education and university
eearch command special atention. Although accurate data do not exist, various estimates
indicate Inadequacy of funding for domestic graduae education and university research.
Goverment's recurrent support for graduate education has been channelled through
domestic graduate fellowships including tuidon, small research expenses and stipends,
amounting to an annual estmated expenditure of about US$8-10 million. This is to be
contrasted with an estimated annual expenditure on overseas fellowships, of the order of
US$60 million. As for research, out of annual public expenditures on research and
development of about US$160 million, the resources made available to the university
sector is limited to about US$15-20 million. With the total number of university staff with
Master's and Ph.D. degrees of 13,000, whicl. is increasing annually by about 2,000, the
total amount and number of research grants fall short of providing for research activities
in the sector.
1.13        Lack of Integration in Planning and Management for Graduate
Educaon and Research. In spite of the inseparable nature of research and graduate
taining in the context of universities, administrative responsibilities for university research
and graduate education have been placed in two separate Directorates: the Directorate of
Research and Community Service Development (DRCSD) and the Directorate of Academic
Affairs (DAA) within the DGHE (Chart 1). Over the past five years, both units have
accumulated substantial experience in managing programs to award grants and fellowships
on the basis of selection criteria and evaluation procedures using panels of evaluators. The
DRCSD developed a small research grant program under two Bank projects, and
proceeded to develop a larger competitive research grant program using Government's own
resources which is in its third year of implementation with an annual award of over 100
research grants. The DAA has mnaged an overseas graduate fellowship program as well
as a domestic graduate fellowship program for staff development purposes. However,
there is no effective intitutional mechanism to review or to plan Government funding for
graduate education and university research in an integrated manner.
1.14        Obstdes for High Quality Graduate Education and Research. Many
factors influence the quality o4 graduate education and research:
(a)   Physical and Human Resource Infrastructurq. Most university units with
graduate training responsibilities still lack the critical infrastructure to
conduct high quality research. These units typically lack one or more of the
following elements: a critical mass of academic talents qualified and/or
experienced to undertake research activities; laboratory and other facilities;
up-to-date journals and other information resources for research; and
managerial resources committed to institutional development. Another
weakness is that past Government investments typically focussed on these
inputs without establishing clear criteria for performance or accountability.
(b) Incentives for High Quality Research. While the incentives for
conducting high quality research have imProved with the introduction of



-6 -
competitive research grant schemes, they have not adequately taken into
account the poor remuneration of academic staff, the need to encourage the
participation of graduate students, and the need to encourage greater
collaboration with the international scientific community. The existing
schemes also do not provide support for the re-integration of recent Ph.D.
renirnees, who typically lack resources to initiate their research activities
during these formative years of their professional lives.
(c)   Quality of Graduate Students.  Conditions for domestic graduate
education prograns are not conducive to attracting Indonesia's best talents
in many fields. Inadequate funding for stipends for domestic fellows has
made domestic graduate education less attractive than overseas fellowships,
and has also been a disincentive for good undergraduates to continue with
graduate education. As a result, many of the best undergraduates either opt
out of academic careers or go overseas for advanced training. The existing
domestic graduate fellowships are allocated to university staff where
regional equity is used as an important criteria. Consequently, there are
many university staff who are qualified to undertake graduate studies who
cannot find funding. Those that are funded are often inadequately prepared
for proceeding directly to specialized graduate programs. Unless the quality
of entering graduate students is improved, it is difficult for university units
and university staff to actively engage in graduate education.
(d)   Scientific Publication.  Effective scientific publication is one of pre-
requisites in evaluating performance of research activities. In Indonesia,
however, the quality discipline based on publication is underdeveloped.
Most domestic journals are of poor quality and do not have in-house
capabilities for effective scientific editing. A recent study conducted by the
DGHE showed that among 267 Indonesian journals surveyed, only 47
journals were found to be of adequate quality. There is little tradition for
academic writing. Existing criteria for career promotion attempt to apply
different credits depending on types of activities, but do not adequately
distinguish between high-quality and routine tasks.
E. GOVERNMT STRATEGY
1.15        Education Sector. The MOEC plans to focus its effort in the next five
years on four broad areas: equitable access through the implementation of univer4al 9
years education; quality improvement at all levels of education; focussing on the quality
and efficiency of higher education; enhancing the relevance of formal education to labor
market needs. Recognizing that the implementation of 9 years basic education will require
a large amount of resources, the Ministry conducted a donor coordination meeing to call
for both technical and financial assistance in the implementation of this policy. The Bank
was asked to assist them through re-orienting the on-going Second Secondary Education
and Maagement Project (Loan 3158-IND), with an understanding that during the fia
phase of the project, a follow-up secondary education project would be -,eveloped.



-7 -
1.16        Higher Education. In the last decade, there has been a shift in the higher
education policy from quantitative expansion to quality improvement. The public sector
was to concentrate on quality improvement, while private institutions were to be the engine
of growth for the expansion of access. First generation investments focussed on simple
provision of quality upgrading inputs: staff development, and laboratory and library
facilities, with a special focus in engineering and natural sciences. The Government also
started investing in developing domestic capacity for graduate education in the 1970s, in
order to build the capacity to sustain staff development efforts. In the late 1980s, a
recognition that competition for resources can be a powerful stimulus for quality
improvement, Indonesia's first competitive research grant scheme was initiated under one
Bank-funded project.
1.17        Based on these experiences, the Government is focussing its attention on the
role of incentives in guiding quality improvement. It plans to use competition more
rigorously to motivate institutions and staff, and to build accountability for performance.
'Ibis will be achieved through the establishment of a University Research Council (URC)
which will evaluate proposals for funding on the technical merit of proposals under all
existing and new competitive research and graduate fellowship programs in DGHE.
Similarly, the Government plans to revamp its accreditation system, and as the frst step
commissioned a task force to undertake a review (para. 1.6).
1.18        To improve equitable access, the Government is planning to launch a review
of the failed student loan scheme, with a view to developing options for supporting
students from lower income families (para. 1.9). For improving efficiency, the first goal
for the Government is the successful implementation of the policy of granting fiancial
autonomy to public institutions with respect to their private revenues. This includes
development of effective accounting systems within public universities.
1.19        Recently, there has been an added emphasis given to the upgrading of
national research capacity, and the Government has adopted a 'One-Gate' policy, in which
the Ministry of Research and Technology and the National Research Council (DRN) play
a role in fostering competition to improve the quality of research carried out with public
funding in accordance with national research priorities. The Government sees the
proposed project as an integral part of this new emphasis on research, and the proposed
mechanism for research proposal reviev by the URC is considered an essential mechanism
for the implementation of the new policy.



-8 -
CHAPrER 2
BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. OVERmVIEW
2.1         The Banlk has financed 19 projects with the MOEC and 10 projects with
other ministries for education and training in the past 20 years (Annex 1). The present
education portfolio comprises five projects with the MOEC and two with other government
agencies, ranging from primary education, secondary education, higher education, non-
formal education, to manpower and civil service training.
2.2         Higher Education Projects. Of eleven past and on-going projects related
to higher education, three projects focussed on the development of teacher training
capabilities primarily in support of quality improvement for lower levels of education, and
two projects supported the establishment of polytechnics to provide a new stream of post-
secondary education for mid-level technical and managerial human resources. The
remaining six projects descnbed below have the greatest relevance to the proposed project.
2.3         The First and Second University Development Plrojects (Loan 1904-IN
and Loan 2547-IND). The First University Development Project supported investments
to strengthen university management, and to raise the quality and number of gradates in
selected fields at three specific public universities. While the project successfully achieved
the planned targets, it was recognized that a wider effort is needed in establishing an
acidemic tradition for excellence. The Second University Development Project supported
the establishment of 16 new Inter-University Centers (IUCs) to develop research and
advanced training capacity in emerging inter-disciplnary scientific and technological fields.
The on-going review of the project experience indicates an increasing need to focus on
incentives and accountability for performance.
2.4         The First and Second Higher Education Development Projects (Loan
2944-IN  and Loan 3311-IND) financed three-year ffme-slices of broad-based sectoral
programs to address a wide range of issues. Preparation and supervision of these projects
enabled the Bank to have continuous sectoral discussions with the Government, both on
policy issues and implementation problems. One successful outcome of these sectoral
interventions is the developme-nt of a small competitive grant scheme to support university
research activities. Ihis experience led to the establishment of a larger research grant
program which was funded by the Government's own resources.
2.5         Overseas Fellowship Projects. Complementary to these investments, there
were projects that supported staff development trough extnsive use of overseas



-9 -
fellowships for the public sector institutions: e.g., for non-departmental research institutes
through the Science and Technology Training Project (Loan 2599-IND), and more broadly
for civil servants in the Professional Human Resources Development Project (Loan
3134-IND). These projects financed overseas fellowships in light of the limited capacity
of domesdc universities to meet the training needs of the public sector. The experience
from these projects highlights the importance of strengthening domestic graduate programs
to sustain these staff development efforts.
B. LESSONS LEARNM
2.6         The Bank's Best Practice Paper on higher education 1/ highlights the
importance of designing sustainable interventions through increased focus on sectoral
policy issues. It states that strong justification for Bank lending exists to support national
efforts to adopt policy reforms that will allow the sub-sector to operate more efficiently.
It recommends that countries that are prepared to adopt a higher education policy
framework that stresses a differentiated institutional structure, a diversified resource base,
with greater emphasis on private providers and private funding should continue to receive
priority. It also recommends that Bank lending for higher education support sector policy
reforms, institutional development, and quality improvement.
2.7         Discussions with the Government on sectoral issues during project
development led to the following conclusions: (a) Indonesia is well on track for
developing a higher education system consistent with the Bank's recommendations- and
(b) the public investments would need to focus on quality improvement especially through
the developmer.t of graduate education and research capabilities. In the medium to long
term, a reform giving greater financial autonomy to public institutions, including
decentralization of all staffing and promotion decisions to universities, and a rationalized
allocation mechanism for public subsidies is essential for improving the efficiency and
viability of public investments. However, in order for such a reform to be implemented
effectively a system of accountability for performance must first be developed.
2.8         Lessons from  various Project Performance Audit Reports, Project
Completion Reports and the Operations Evaluation Departnent report on Indonesia 2/ as
well as on-going higher education projects in Indonesia include the importance of:
(a) designing compact, targeted projects to ensure effective implementation; (b) developing
domestic graduate education capacity; (c) strengthening the effectiveness of overseas
fellowships through better re-entry conditions for returning fellows; (d) improving financial
and professional incentives for staff; (e) ensuring sustainability of project interventions
through developing institutional capacity based on existing capabilities; and (f) ensuring
effective equipment procurement through users' involvement in decision making.
1/ Higher Education: The Lessons of Erperience, The World Bank, September 1993.
V   Indonesian Education and the World Bank. An Assessment of Io Decades ofLending, The World
Bank, 1991.



- 10-
2.9         The proposed project is designed to reflect these lessons learned. It focuses
on the qualitative improvement of university research and graduate education. Project
support for overseas degree fellowships would be limited to Ph.D. candidates from
selected university units to ensure capacity building for domestic graduate education
programs and formation of a critical mass of academic talents. Programs are designed to
support effective integration of rqturning fellows into university units and their research
activities. Grants include support for increased remuneration for staff with demonstrated
capacity and potential, with accountability for performance, which will be monitored and
evaluated. Support for institutional development is based on careful examination of
existing capabilities. For instance, the URC was designed based on the existing structures
for managing competitive research grant programs. Responsibilities for planning inputs
and procurement are decentralized to universities and their staff.
C. RATIONALE AND STRATEGY FOR BAN INVOLVEMENT
2.10        Rationale. As highlighted in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
Indonesia presented to the Executive Directors on April 12, 1994, human resource
development through a higher quality of education services is a key objective for
Indonesia's development. Strengthening domestic educational capabilit a's to develop
professional, managerial and scientific human resources through quality inprovement of
higher education, is critical for sustaining growth. The proposed project is consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategy. Graduate education and research are a priority area for
public investments within higher education. The funding mechanism being developed
under the project is important for three reasons: (a) it is based on important principles to
ensure the efficiency of public subsidies: competition and incentives; (b) it is the first
attempt by the Government to link funding of university research and graduate education;
and (c) it is an integral component of the long term strategy for reforming the financing
of higher education through promoting greater accountability for performance. The Bank
is well placed to assist the Government in these areas because of its experience in
financing the country's first competitive grant program and several graduate level
fellowship programs as well as the establishment of the IUCs to support graduate education
and research.
2.11        Bank Strategy. Bank strategy is to develop a higher education portfolio
consisting of: (a) well focused investment projects with clearly defined objectives that
address areas of specific weakness, consistent with the long-term policy framework; and
(b) sectoral investment projects, such as the Second Higher Education Development Project
and its possible follow-up, with particular attention given to sector wide policies. In
parallel to these projects, the Bank would continue policy dialogue involving not only the
line ministries but also key agencies in charge of economic policies in order to achieve the
medium to long term goal of reforming the financing of public higher education
institutions. Theproposedprojectwould supportthe development of a competitive funding
system for research and graduate education, which would constitute an integral component
of the financing system.



- 11 -
CHAPTER 3
THE PROJECT
A. ftoner OBJEcTVE
3.1         The overall goal of the project is to improve the quality of graduate
education in Indonesia. Specifically, the project would: (a) increase competitive funding
for domestic graduate education and university research activities, (b) strengthen the
procedures for selecting grant and fellowship proposals; (c) integrate university research
with graduate training in universities; (d) strengthen research capacity and dissemination
of research findings in universities; and (e) attract highly qualified candidates for domestic
graduate education.
B. PRoJEwr DESCRIrTON
3.2         To achieve the above objectives, the project would provide support for:
(a)   Improving Planning and Management of graduate education and
university research through the development of the University Research
Council for administering competitive grant and fellowship programs and
for providing policy advice to the DGHE; and
(b)   Competitive Grant and Fellowship Programs including: (i) the Center
Grant Program; (ii) Research Grant Programs; (iii) Graduate Education
Programs; and (iv) Scientific Publication Programs.
Improving Planning and Management: the URC Component (US$6. 8 million including
contingencies).
3.3         To improve planning and management capacity for graduate education and
university research, the project would provide assistance to the University Research
Council (URC) to carry out its functions. The URC, established through a Ministerial
decree in October 1993, will have two major functions: to administer all existing and new
DGHE grant and fellowship programs for graduate education and research; and to provide
the DGHE with policy advice on the development of graduate education and research
capacity. The URC will take over the functions and responsibilities of the existing
National Graduate Education Council (NGEC), which was established in 1986. The URC
will prepare program announcements inviting proposals, conduct proposal evaluation
through peer reviews and technical site visits as required, select proposals for grant and



- 12 -
fellowship awards, and monitor and evaluate the progress of grant and fellowship
activities. The effectiveness of the URC to carry out these tasks would be enhanced
through technical assistance and overseas training of its staff especially through a twinning
arrangement with a selected foreign research council with similar functions. The URC will
also organize training activides to improve the ability of academic journal editors to
publish scientific fmdings. The URC will be responsible for conducting a mid-term review
and an implementation completion review with inputs from consultants for the project.
Technical audits will be conducted by an independent agency with external technical
assistance. The project will finance: international and local consultants; overseas and
domestic training; incremental recurrent costs for the operation of the URC; and project
man;lagement costs including some equipment, travel and honoraria.
Competitive Grant and Fellowship Programs: the URGE Programs (US$90.8 million
including contingencies).
3.4         The project would support a selected menu of competitive grant and
fellowship programs that strengthen incentives for institutions, university staff, and
graduate students to participate in high quality graduate training and research activities.
AU grants and fellowships would be awarded on a competitive basis through proposals and
applications submitted to the URC, and evaluated by the URC Commissions (para 3.9).
Program summaries indicating objectives, eligibility, selection criteria and methods are
given in Annex 2, and operating procedures for the URC evaluation are summarized in
Annex 3.
3.5         Center Grant Program (US$36.6 million including contingencies). The
project would support grants for investments to upgrade physical, managerial and human
resources infrastructure of selected university units with integrated research and graduate
education programs. Proposals for funding would be invited from university units that
provide graduate training, and units would be selected on the basis of criteria agreed to by
the Bank that measure the capability of the units to conduct a focused, coherent program
of high quality research and graduate education. The project would support three rounds
of competition through which about 30 university units would be selected for multiple year
support. The URC would be responsible for the selection which would be based on peer
review and site visits by panels of international and local experts. The project will finance
grants, which are expected to provide for the costs of overseas fellowships, acquisition of
equipment and scientific journals and books, overseas visiting scholars, remuneration for
a small number of research administrators and support staff, and the purchase of
consumables. Once grant proposals are approved, grant agreements will be signed by the
DGHE and the representatives of the recipient universities, which will include agreed
inputs to be funded under the grants and a schedule of payments. During negotiadons,
the Government agreed that selected universty staff under inst"utional grant support
would be remunerated adequately so hat they can devote all of :elr time outside of their
teacng requiremnts to research and graduate education related tasks pirra. 6.1(a)).
3.6         Research Grant Programs (US$32.3 million including coPntingencies). The
project would support programs to provide research grants to individuals and research
teams of demonstrated potential, based on proposals to be evaluated through peer reviews.
lhe Team Grant Program for Graduate Research would promote high quality research



- 13 -
activities that integrate graduate students as part of research teams, and encourage
collaboration with the international scientific community. Grant proposals would be
submitted by principal investigators who are supervisors of Master's (S2) and/or Ph.D.
(S3) students, and would be evaluated according to agreed criteria. The project would
support three annual competitions, with the expected total of about 160 grants to research
teams. Grants would cover the costs of purchasing research consumables and small
research equipment, overseas and domestic visiting scholars, overseas travel, post-doctoral
fellowships, remuneration for the researchers and research assistantships. lhe Young
Academics Program would facilitate integration of young teaching staff who have recently
returned from domesdc or foreign Ph.D. programs into research programs in their
universities. Grant proposals would be invited from university staff who recently
completed Ph.D. degrees, and evaluated on the basis of agreed criteria. Two-year grants
would be provided to about 200 young academics, selected based on the merit of their
proposals. Grants would cover the costs of purchasing research consumables and small
research equipment, and remuneration for the researchers. During negotations, the
Government agreed at selected university staff under research grant support would be
remunerated adequately so that they can devote all of dteir     outside of their teaching
requienents to research and graduate educaion related tasks li)ara 6.1(a)1
3.7         Graduate Education Programs (US$19.9 million including contingencies).
The project would support a range of programs to improve domestic graduate education.
To attract highly qualified and capable candidates into domestic graduate education
programs, Merit Fellowships would be offered to candidates with demonstrated capabilities
for succeeding in graduate studies. Proposals would be invited from eligible individuals
and evaluated on a competitive basis. About 795 Master's (S2) and 130 Ph.D. (S3)
fellowships would be awarded through three rounds of annual competitions with adequate
financial support to ensure full-time studentships. Fellows would be selected purely on the
basis of academic merit for domestic graduate programs. Of the total, about 500 would
be awarded to fresh graduates from preceding degree programs. Fellowships would cover
the costs of tuition, research expenses, book and travel allowances, and stipends. To
improve the quality of entering graduate students, die Pre-Graduate Training Program
would offer grants to graduate schools to provide additional training to students prior to
their admission to graduate programs. Proposals for establishing comprehensive one-year
training programs for prospective graduate students and running them for a period of four
years would be invited from graduate schools, and evaluated on the basis of agreed
criteria. The project would support five grants to cover the costs of tuition, book and
travel allowances and stipends. To improve domestic graduate education capacity through
encouraging formal collaboration with foreign universities, the Sandwich Program would
support selected graduate programs that have developed institutional linkages with foreign
universities where part of the S3 training would be conducted. The project would support
a total of 20 grants through two batches of competition, to cover the costs for overseas
fellowships, academic advisors and travel.
3.8         Scientific Publication Programs (US$2.0 million including contingencies).
The objective of these programs is to improve scientific publication in Indonesia. To
improve the quality of domestic journals, the Scientific Journal Program would offer
multiple-year grants to selected universities and academic societies that publish journals
of the highest quality and professional impact. The project would support about 25



- 14-
multiple-year grants tirough three rounds of annual competition to cover the costs of
editorial assistance and publication. To encourage university researchers to publish in
reputable international journals, the Research Publication Program would provide grants
to authors who publish in these journals for the first time, to cover the publiction costs
and remuneration for the authors.
C. PRCorr MANAGEMiET AND IMPLEmENATION
3.9         Organizational Structre. The DGHE will be responsible for overall
management of the proposed project. Under the general authority of the DOHE,
implementation responsibilities will rest in the URC, a semi-autonomous body responsible
for policies and programs in support of graduate education and university research. The
URC will consist of:
(a)   a Council, comprising ten to fifteen members selected on the basis of
recognized expertise;
(b)   seven discipline-based Standing Commissions, and Special Commissions for
selected programs, responsible for review of proposals; and
(c)   a Secretariat established within the DGHE as a functional unit with staff
seconded from the DAA and DRCSD, to be responsible for administering
the programs during and following the project implementation period.
A small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established within the DGHE, based
on existing personnel capabilities from an earlier Bank project, with its functions limited
to loan administration for the implementation of the project.
3.10        Policies and Operating Guidelines tur the URC (Annex 3) include
requirements for public dissemination of results of project-funded research, and rules for
professional and academic ethics. Peer review is adopted as an essential mechanism for
URC selection. To ensure fairness in selection, provisions are made for avoiding conflict
of interest, and for maintaining confidentiality of proposals. Responsibilities of the
Chairperns of the URC and its Commissions, rules on how decisions are reached in
meetings, and spheres of responsibilities of the URC and its Commissions are also
stipulated. Specific evaluation procedures to be used for programs to be supported under,
the project are also given in Annex 3.
3.11        The organizaional structure for project implamentation is described in detail
in Annex 4 and Chart 2. During negotations, the Government provided an assurance
that: (a) the URC's activites would be carried out i accordance with polces and
operadng guidelines, criteria and grant conditons acceptabk to the Bank [para. 6.1(aJ;,
and (b) the URC Secretariat and PIU would be maintained witdn the DGHE in
accordance with tenns of reference, quaMed st4f, office space and budgetary resources
to bnplemnt the project induding the operadng costs for the URC acceptable to the
Bak &ara. 6.1(b)).



- 15 -
3.12        Implementation Schedule. Technical assistance and training activities for
strengthening the URC would take place throughout the project period as summarized in
Annex 5. The grant and fellowship programs under project financing would have annual
announcements in the first 3 years of the project as shown in Annex 6.
D. MONITORING AND EVAWAIION
3.13        Monitoring and evaluation activities would be carried out for individual
grants and fellowships, and at the program or project level, as described in Annexes 7 and
8.
3.14        Individual Grants and Fellowships. The progress under individual grants/
fellowships would be monitored generally against plans as stipulated in their original
proposals through: (a) annual reports submitted by grantees and reviewed by the URC;
(b) semi-annual financial reports submitted by grantees; (c) annual site visits or interviews
for larger grants by reviewers appointed by the URC; and (d) fmal reports submitted by
the grantees including a self-assessment with respect to the original plan submitted.
3.15        Program and Project Evaluation. Sectoral indicators, such as the numbers
of graduate students, successful graduates, and research publications, would be monitored
through the baseline data, currently being collected, and updated through the
mxplementation Completion Review. Program-specific input and process indicators would
be monitored throughout the project, and outcome indicators would be used to evaluate the
effectiveness of each program with respect to its objectives (Annex 8). More specifically,
indicators would include: those related to the performance and effectiveness of the URC;
measures of the performance of university centers in providing high quality graduate
education and research; and other grant-specific indicators to evaluate their effectiveness.
Baseline data as well as targets would be established through information submitted in the
proposals and comments from peer reviewers and site visits.
3.16        Annual Progress Report. The Secretariat would prepare, with the support
of the PIU, annual reports at the end of every fiscal year, summarizing: (a) grant and
fellowship program activities including a list of grants awarded, expenditures by
component and category and other input and process indicators as shown in Annex 8;
(b) sectcral data on graduate education and research; (c) a summary of activities by the
URC including input and process indicators as shown in Annex 8; (d) major
implementation problems; and (e) a revised implementation plan for the following year
including training plans to be carried out by the URC. The annual progress reports would
be submitted to the Bank for each fiscal year by August 31.
3.17        Mid-term Review. In addition to these annual reports, the Secretariat
assisted by the PIU and inputs from domestic and international consultants, would prepare
a mid-term review of the project and submit a report to the Bank. This review will focus
on inter alia: (a) assessment of the effectiveness of the URC and its procedures; and
(b) evaluation of a sample of grants awarded, paying special attention to the effectiveness
of Center Grants, Merit Fellowships and remuneration of researchers.  During
negealons, the Goverunent provided an assurmnce tat a mld-tenn review would be



- 16-
conducted based on tenns of reference acceptable to the Bank before March 31, 1998
Ipanz. 6.1(c)).
3.18        Implementation Completion Review. At the completion of the Project, the
Secretariat, assisted by the PIU and inputs from domestic consultants, will compile an
Implementation Completion Report within six months of the closing date of the Loan.
This report will summarize inter alia: (a) program activities in terms of input, process and
outcome indicators as listed in An"ex 8; (b) assessment of URC effectiveness; (c) sectoral
overview on graduate education and university research; (d) the project financial status;
and (e) implementation issues and recommendations.
3.19        Supervision. Bank supervision missions would be conducted twice a year
and are expected to cover: (a) a review of financial status and contractin processes; (b)
discussion of annual reports; (c) post-review of grant and fellowship awards; and
(d) discussion of technical audit reports. The supervision plan is summarized in Annex
9.
E. READINESS OF THE PRoJECr
3.20        A Ministerial Decree to establish the URC was issued in October 1993,
clariting its stucture, roles and functions. A revised decree to ensure that the URC
would take over the responsibilities of the NGEC was issued in April 1994. All URC and
Standing Commission members were nominated through a DGHE Decree in April 1994,
and many of them have been engaged in the design of the project. Office space has been
secured for the URC Secretariat within the MOEC, and key personnel have been assigned
to the PIU and the Secretariat. Policies and operating guidelines for the URC have been
developed (Annex 3, with the full form in Project Files). For each of the programs to be
supported under the project, objectives, eligibility, selection criteria and procedures have
been agreed upon as summarized in Annexes 2 and 3. A draft sample grant agreement
was reviewed by the Bank and comments were provided for its finalization. For the
Center Grant Program, which is the largest and the most complex of all the programs, a
guideline for proposal submission was developed, and disseminated to beneficiary
institutions to invite preliminary proposals. Out of 133 pre-proposals received, 33 were
selected for invitation for full proposals, using agreed criteria for selection. This pre-
selection process was evaluated as satisfactory by the Appraisal Missiorn, based on a
review of the evaluation procedures adopted, and a sample evaluation of selected and
rejected pre-proposals. A revised guideline for full-proposal submission was distributed
to all selected candidates through a workshop. An agreement was reached during
Appraisal on the programs to be introduced in the initial year of implementation, and
program announcements are currently being developed for dissemination. P-oposal
invitation and selection for these programs will be initiated shortly, so that grants and
fellowships for the first year of implementation will be detormined ready for start-up in
the fall of 1994. The budget for the first year of implementation has been put into place.
Draft terms of reference for all consultancy tasks were reviewed and commented upon.
A detailed implementation schedule was developed by the DGHE.



- 17 -
CHAPrER 4
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Com
4.1         The total cost of the project is estimated at US$97.6 million equivalent
(Rp 205.3 billion), including contingencies and identifiable taxes and duties. Tables 4.1
and 4.2 summarize the estimated costs by project component and category of expenditure,
respectively. Detailed project costs by year, purpose and components are given in
Annex 10.  The project consists of: (a) components and sub-components with pre-
identified investments in the URC component; and (b) grant and fellowship programs
which will fund sub-projects (grants and fellowships) on the basis of competitive selection
using agreed criteria and procedures.
4.2         Bases of Cost Estimates. Baseline costs are estimated at May 1994 prices.
Costs for international and domestic consultants are in line with recent education projects
for appropriately qualified experts. Unit costs for domestic fellowships range from
US$4,800 to US$6,000 per staff-year for long-term programs. Overseas training and
fellowships range from US$2,100 per staff-month for short-term training to US$26,500
per staff-year for long term programs. Operational costs are consistent with current
government practices and recent education projects. The numbers of Merit Fellows to be
supported were estimated in light of the eligible beneficiary population and expected levels
of competition. The size of each grant program was estimated based on the expected
numbers of grants to be supported annually in light of the beneficiary population size and
expected levels of competition, and on an average grant cost using expected categories of
support and sample sub-projects.
4.3         Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies (US$0.3 million)
represent 0.3 percent and price contingencies (US$5.2 million) 6 percent of baseline costs.
For all categories under the URC component, physical contingencies of 5 percent have
been allowed. For competitive grant and fellowship programs, no physical contingencies
have been applied, since program success does not depend critically upon the exact number
of grants or fellowships. Price contingencies have been applied for all categories under
the URC component, and for fellowships, visiting scholars and overseas travel under the
grant and fellowship programs. These are calculated at 5.5 percent per year for local costs
and 2.5 percent per year for foreign costs.
4.4         Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$44.0
million (representing about 45 percent of total project costs) based on the following
percentages: (a) international consultants and visiting scholars, overseas training,



v 18 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COmTS BY COMPONENT
% Total
RD Billion_            USS Million        % Foreign  Base
Component            Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costa
Improving Planning
and Management (URC)    jQ        2.0     J       4.8   1J.Q      S.       17      6
Competitive Grant and
Fellowship Programs:
Center Grant Program   19.9    54.0  73.9       9.4   25.7    35.1       73     38
Research Grant Programs  40.6    26.4  67.0    19.3   12.5    31.8       39     35
Graduate Education
Programs            31.9      4.6   36.5    15.2    2.2    17.4        13      19
Scientific Publication
Programs             2.4      1.8   4.2       1.2    0.8      2.0      40      2
Subtotl               "4A      NJ   181.6    MA                 6.       48     94
Total BDse Costs      105.0      J   193.8    429    42.2    2.1        46    100
Physical Contingencies    0.5      0.1    0.6     0.3    0.0      0.3       0       0
Price Contingencies       7.2      3.7   10.9     3.4    1.8      5.2      35       6
Total Cost /a         112.7       .6  20S.3    5.    44.0    97.6        45    106
/a Includes identifiable taxes and duties estimatod at USS1.3 million equivalent.
fellowships and travel - 90 percent; (b) equipment, and books and journals - 80 percent
(c) consumables, research and publications grants - 30 percent, (d) local consultants and
visiting scholars, local fellowships, local training, and PIU project management and
recurrent costs - 0 percent.
4.5           Taxes and Duties. Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at Rp 2.'
billion (US$1.3 million) based on the current 10 percent value added tax on all contracts
for goods and materials.



- 19 -
Table 4.2: SummARY OF PRojEr CoSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDfTURES
% Tota
Category of                RR Billion             USS Million      % Poreign   Base
Expenditure        Local  Foreign  Total  Local  For4ign   Total  Exchange   Cost
Insuona Grarts:         2,      59.1     865   13 0      28.1     AU       68       45
Conter Gn Progam       19.9   54.0    73.9   9.4    25.7    35.1         73       38
Pro-Graduate Training  5.9    0.0       5.9   2.8       0.0      2.8      0        3
Sandwich Program       0.5    4.6       5.1   0.3       2.2      2.5     88        3
Scientfic Jounual       1.1    0.5      1.6   0.5      0.2       0.7     29         1
Research Grants:        41.9   27.6      69.5   19.9    13        33.0     40       36
Team Research         33.5   23.3      56.8   15.9    11.1      27.0     41       29
Young Academics        7.1    3.0      10.1    3.4      1.4      4.8     29         6
Rsearch Publication     1.3    1.3      2.6    0.6      0.6      1.2     50         1
Consultant Servicos      0.6    1.6       2.2    0        '        1.1     73         1
Felowships and Trauing    26.3    0.3    26.6   12.5      0.1     12.6      1        14
Project Management       2.3    02        2.     1.1      0.1     1U2       8         1
Encremental Recunrent Costs  6.5    0.0   65    3.       0         3.1      0        3
Totl Base Costs      1MA.    a        1MA    49&      4L        2,       46       100
Physical Contingencies   0.5    0.1       0.6    0.3     0.0       0.3      0        0
Price Contingencies      7.2    3.7      10.9   3.4       1.8      5.2     35         6
TOt*ICOStSIA    ~ ~~~N        205.3   53.6    ig9                         I
& Includes idefiable taxes and duties estimated at US$1.3 million equivalent.
B. FENANCING
4.6           The total project cost of US$97.6 million equivalent would be financed by
a proposed loan of US$58.9 million equivalent, covering 61 percent of total project costs
excluding taxes (100 percent of foreign and 28 percent of local expenditures). The
Government would finance from its annual budget the remaining costs of US$38.7 million
equivalent (40 percent of total project costs including taxes or 39 percent of the total
project costs excluding taxes).
4.7           Incremental Recurrent Costs. Incremental recurrent costs are additional
costs associated with the URC  and its commissions, and the Secretariat, which are
expected to continue their functions beyond the project lifetime.   These account for
3.4 percent of total base costs. The size of incremental recurrent costs is designed to
depend on the total volume of programs the URC manages. All the project-related
incremental recurrent costs would be fmanced by the Government in order to ensure
sustainability.



- 20 -
Table 4.3: FinmcIng Plan
(US$ million)
Government                          IBRD
of                               Share
Indonesia    IBRD        Total      (%)
Institutional Grants:            1.          30.3        43.3         70
Center Grants                   11.0       25.6        36.6          70
Pre-Graduate Training Grants     1.0        2.3         3.3          70
Sandwich Prcgram Grants          0.8         1.9        2.7          70
Scientific Journal Grants        0.2        0.5         0.7          70
Research Grants:                 13.4        20.133.5                 60
Team Research Grants            11.0        16.5       27.5          60
Young Academics Grants           1.9        2.9         4.8          60
Research Publication Grants      0.5        0.7         1.2          60
Consultant Services                           1.1         1.1        100
Fellowships and Training          7.2         72         14.4         50
Project Management                13          01.3                     0
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                            0 0  3 7
Unallocated                       I           0.2        0.3          67
Total                            38.7                   2Lm           60
C. PROCUREMNT
4.8         The loan proceeds would be used to fnance procurement of goods and
services under both project components, improving planning and management and the
competitive grant and fellowship programs:
(a)   Under the Instonal Grants (US$43.3 million equivalent including
contingencies), and following approval of the proposals by the URC,
separate grant agreements would be signed between the DGHE and the
university units concerned. These agreements could include the fii.ancing
of overseas and domestic fellowships and training, overseas visiting
scholars, equipment, books and journals, consumables and administrative
costs to employ a small number of administrative staff on a full time basis.
Procurement arrangements would be specified in the grant agreements, and
each university unit would be responsible for procurement of all goods and
services included in its agreement. Aggregation of the procurement activities
in various grant agreements signed separately is not practically feasible,
given different specialties, location, and procurement time scheduit; of
university units.



- 21 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
(US$ million)
Procurement
Procedures                   Total Cost
Category of Expenditure          Other La        N.B.F.       including
Contingencies
Institutional Grants             43.3                            43.3
(30.3)                         (30.3)
Research Grants                  33.6                            33.6
(20.1)                         (20.1)
Consultant Services               1.2                             1.2
(1.2)                          (1.2)
Fellowships and                  14.5                            14.5
Training                        (7.3)                           (7.3)
Project Management                                1.3             1.3
(0.0)          (0.0)
Incremental Recurrent Costs                       3.7             3.7
(0.0)          (0.0)
Total                            92.6             5.0            97.6
(58.9)          (0.0)          (58.9)
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F - not Bank financed.
La Includes selection of consultants following Bank guidelines, institutional and research
grants to be awarded on a competitive basis and selection of fellows and their placement
using government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
For the equipment to be purchased, the procurement plans submitted by
university units as part of their grant proposals, would be reviewed by
research specialists through peer reviews and site visits. An estimated total
of about US$12 million equivalent is expected to be used for equipment
purchase under institutional grants. Most packages are expected to range
in cost from US$50,000 to US$200,000. Universities would follow the
procurement procedures as stipulated in grant agreements and as
summarized below. The PIU would provide guidance and monitor the
procurement activities at awarded university units.



- 22 -
Procurement provisions in grant agre.ements would indicate that: (a) any
goods estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more per contract would
be procured under International Competitive Bidding procedures using
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents with a domestic preference of 15%.
In the case of specialized equipment with a limited number of suppliers,
Limited International Bidding procedures will be used; (b) other goods
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$500,000 per contract would
be procured through international and local shopping procedures whereby
bids would be received from at least three eligible suppliers; and
(c) necessary proprietary equipment, accessories and parts with
standardization requirements and licensed intellectual properties, including
books and journals, would be purchased directly in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
The university staff and overseas visiting scholars to be employed under
grant agreements would be proposed and approved as part of the grant
applications.
(b)   Research Grants (US$33.6 million equivalent including contingencies),
would include overseas and domestic visiting scholars, a small amount of
equipment, research consumables, remuneration of researchers, research
assistantships and post-doctoral fellowships.
(c)   Consultant Services (US$1.2 million equivalent including contingencies)
would be selected and contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(d)   Fellowships and Training  (US$14.5 million equivalent including
contingencies). Fellowships would be awarded to candidates on the basis
of individual applications as evaluated by the URC in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank. Training contracts would be
awarded to local training providers in accordance with Government
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.9         Bank Review. Review by the Bank would be as follows:
(a)   For institutional grant agreements, all draft agreements together with the
proposals, and a random sample of rejected proposals, for the first
competition for the center, journal, pre-graduate training and sandwich
program grants would be subject to prior review by the Bank. In
subsequent batches, draft grant agreements estimated to cost more than
US$2.0 million and draft agreements that include equipment purchases
estimated to cost US$500,000 or more would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. All other institutional grant agreements would be subject to
random post-review by the Bank;
(b)   For research grant agreements, from the first round of competition for the
Team Grant Program for Graduate Research, a sample of 10 draft grant
agreements together with proposals including the top-ranked five and the



- 23 -
lowest-ranked five would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Grant
proposals and draft grant agreements estimated to cost a total of
US$250,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other
research grant agreements would be subject to random post-review by the
Bank;
(c)   Fellowships would be subject to random post-review by the Bank;
(d)   Annual training plans for each year under the URC component would be
submitted as part of the annual report for discussion with the Bank (para.
3.16); and
(e)   All individual consultant contracts costing more than US$50,000 and
cGntracts for consulting firms costing more Jhan US$100,000 would be
subject to the Bank's prior review.
Since one of the objectives of the project is to strengthen URC's capability in selecting
grant and fellowship proposals on a competitive basis using agreed criteria and procedures,
it is important that Bank review does not undermine URC's authority or the integrity of
the selection and award process. The prior review requirements by the Bank are designed
to test the process rather than review the details of individual proposals. A procurement
schedule including responsible units and Bank review is summarized in Annex 11.
D. D_S-U-SEMEW
4.10        lle proposed loan of US$58.9 million equivalent would be disbursed over
a period of about 5 years (Annex 12). The project is expected to be completed by August
31, 1999, and the Loan would be closed six months later on February 29, 2000. The
disbursement schedule is based on the implementation schedule and the disbursement
profile for education project in Indonesia. It is somewhat faster than the present profile
reflecting the readiness of this project and the past implementation experience of DGHE.
Disbursements estimated for the first semester of FY95 are based on the proposed initial
deposit into the project Special Account. Disbursements would be made as follot-s:
(a) nsutional grants               70% of total expenditures
(i) Center Grants
(ii) Pre-Gaduate Training Grants
(iii) Sandwich Program Grants
(iv) Journal Gras
(b) Research grants                60% of total expenditues
(i) Team Research Grants
(ii) Young Academics Grants
(xii) Research Publication Grants
(c) Consultant services            100% of total expenditures
(d) Fellowships and training      50% of total expenditures
4.11        Disbusements from the Loan for the following contracts and agreements
would be made against full documentation: (a) consultant services contracts with individual



- 24 -
consultants costing more than US$50,000 ard consulting firm contracts costing more than
US$100,000; (b) institutional grant agreements costing more than US$ 2.0 million and
those including equipment valued above US$500,000; and (c) research grant agreements
costing more than US$250,000. All other disbursements would be made against statements
of expenditures (SOE) for which relevant documents would be retained by responsitble
agencies and made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. 7'o
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established at the Bank Indonesia or
a commercial bank, to be used by DGHE under the direction of the Director GCn:ral of
the Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures.  Upon Loan
Effectiveness and confrmation of the establishment of the Special Account, the Bank, on
receipt of an application from the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance,
would make an initial deposit of up to US$3.0 million, which is based on the need for
funds to cover these expenditures on average for four months. The proposed Special
Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Replenishments to
the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis or whenever the outstanding
balance is less than 80 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
E. AccoNms AmD AUDiTS
4.12        DGHE would establish project accounts for all project expenditures, to be
maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts for the SOEs and
Special Account would be maintained separately. The PIU would prepare financial
reports. The financial statements and financial reports would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the financial report on the project for
each Government fiscal year, together with the auditors' statements, would be furnished
to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance at the project
accounts Including the specal account and SOEs would be audited annually by
ndependent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and audt reports would be furnished to
the Bank within 9 months of the end of the Government's fisell year para. 6.1(d)).
4.13        Technical Audits. The URC Policies and Guidelines, and agreed evaluation
procedures include detailed procedures for maintaining the integrity of the selection
process. The URC will also undertake an annual review of grants and fellowships to
monitor activities under individual grants and fellowships, and program effectiveness
would be evaluated. However, given a large number of contracts that will be financed
under SOE procedures, an independent body with external technical assistance, would be
hired to conduct technical audits of grants and fellowships funded under the project.
Technical audits will have the objective of ensuring that funds are spent under individual
grants and fellowships in accordance with grant agreements and fellowship award
conditions. Technical audits will be conducted annually for a sample of each type of
grant. During negotiations, the Governmentprovided an assurance that technia audits
would be carried out every y6.r during the nplementation of the project, commencdng
not later than April 1, 1996, In accordance with terms of reference and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, and that copies of the technical audit reports would be furnished
to the Bank for comments (pam. 6.1(e)1.



- 25 -
CHAPTIER 5
BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFm
5.1         The project would lead to increased funding for domestic graduate education
and university research, in line with public investment priorities in the sector. With the
responsibilities assigned to it, the URC is expected to play a catalytic role in enabling the
Government to invest more resources in graduate education and research, and increase the
efficiency in the use of these resources. At the end of the project, an estimated total of
1,500 graduate student places would have been improved through project investment under
various grant and fellowship programs. Through fellowships supported by the project,
about 500 students would proceed to their graduate studies, most of whom would be
employed in the public and private universities, and 400 university staff with demonstrated
potential would complete their graduate studies. The project would also strengthen the
DGHE's capacity to select proposals for university research and graduate education on a
competitive basis. This would enable a concentration of research funding in institutions,
principal investigators and teams that are able to conduct research and advanced scientific
ta-inig activities to an international standard. The competitive nature of grant and
fellowship awards will significantly alter the present incentive structure, rewarding high
quality research and training outputs.
B. RISKS
5.2         To alleviate potential risks for the project, the following measures have been
incorporated into project design. To ensure that the project is within the implementation
capacity of the Government, the number of new programs has been reduced, and
contracting and administrative requirements have been simplified. Also, steps have been
taken to facilitate the development of twinning relationships between the URC and a
foreign research council with similar functions. To ensure that project funding will be
directed to high quality activities, the investment level for each program has been
determined during project preparation through a careful assessment of: (a) the size of
currently available resources; (b) tht- size of the beneficiary population; and (c) expected
levels of competition. Monitoring and evaluadon activides by the URC have been
designed in detail, with provisions for discontinuadon of funding for non-performers.
Technical audits have also been built into the project.



- 26 -
C. SUSTAINABDIY
5.3         The institutional development of the URC would play a critical and catalytic
role in ensuring continuity of competitive funding in support of university research and
graduate education. The Government's commitnent to the URC is demonstrated by the
swift issuance of a Ministerial Decree for its establishment, its willingness to revise the
decree to ensure its effectiveness, as well as its decision to transfer all of the existing
DGHE graduate education and research programs to the purview of the URC. The
prospect for government funding for research and graduate education is also good, given
its past commitment to increase funding for competitive research grant programs, its
articulated policy to strengthen research capacity especially through human resource
development, and the increasing attention being paid to the need for domestic capacity
building for graduate education. Incremental recurrent costs will be financed purely from
government resources, and constitute only 3.7% of total project costs, which are moderate
by international standards. In the medium to long term, the viability of investments in
higher education including graduate education depends critically on the systemic changes
in the manner in which public funds are channelled. These include granting greater
financial autonomy to public institutions, decentralizing staffing and promotion decisions
to universities, and rationalizing public subsidies for higher education through funding
mechanisms that are based on performance. All of these are central to the on-going
educational sector policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government. The URC will
be an essential component of the financing system for higher education, and represents a
step in establishing performance-oriented funding mechanisms. Specific categories of
expenditures suc}. as increased remuneration and stipends for high quality university staff
and students are expected to have important demonstration effects to facilitate further
systemic changes in the future.
B. ENVONMETAL IMPACT
5.4         The proposed project would incur no direct environmental costs 2nd has an
environmental rating of 'C." Increased capacity in biological, physical and social
sciences, engineering and environmental management disciplines is expected to have some
favorable impact on the country's capacity to address environmental problems. The
Operating Guidelines for the URC stipulate that all activities to be funded under the URC
must comply with prevailing rules on environmental and ethical concerns.
5.5         Impact on Women. Past studies have found that women face difficulties
in attending overseas graduate programs because of family and other cultural constraints.
Improved domestic graduate education opportunities are expected to have favorable impact
on female participation in graduate programs for two reasons: (a) fellowships are available
directly upon graduation from undergraduate programs at a younger age, which is likely
to reduce conflicts with child bearing responsibilities; and (b) for those who already have
families, it will be easier for them to attend graduate schools in Indonesia.



- 27 -
CHAPTER 6
AGREEMENTS REACHED
AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         During negotiations, the Govermnent provided assurances that:
(a)  the URC's activities would be carried out in accordance with policies and
operating guidelines, procedures, criteria and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, including the adequacy of remuneration for selected university staff
(paras. 3.5, 3.6 and 3.11);
(b)  the URC Secretariat and the PIU would be maintained within DGHE in
accordance with terms of reference, staffing, and other resources such as
office space and budgetary resources, acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(c)   a mid-term review would be conducted in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank before March 31, 1998 (para. 3.17);
(d)  the project accounts including the special account and SOEs would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and audit
reports would be furnished to the Bank within 9 months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year (para 4.12); and
(e)  technical audits would be conducted annually by an independent body,
starting before April 1, 1996, in accordance with terms of reference and in
a manner acceptable to the Bank, to review activities funded under grants
and fellowships on a sample basis, and that copies of the technical audit
reports would be furnished to the Bank for comments (para. 4.13).
6.2         Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$58.9 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECI
Bank Group-financed Education and Traing Projects
Loan    Year of   Ye ot  Prjctb                                     Agy                      Amowo Is
Credt    Board    Actual                                                                   Balk       IDA
Number Approva   Closing                                                                   OUSS mllon) -
Project withMOEC
219     1970      1976   Fint Education                           MOEC/b                              4.5
387     1973      1981   Third Education                          MOEC                               13.5
1237     1976      1981   Fourth Education                         MOEC                      24.1
1433     1977      1984   Firt Teacher Tranng                      MOEC                      124
1486     1977      19%4   Nonfonatd Education                      MOEC                       8.3
869     1978     1985   Polyt"cnio                                MOEC                               49.0
1904     1980      1987   FirstUnveity Devedopmnt                  MOEC                      43.1
2101     1982      1990  SBoend Teacher Traiing                    MOEC                      79.1
2102     1982      19%8   SeoondTextbook                           MOEC                      24.9
2290     1983      1990   SeoondPolytnic                           MOEC                     106.0
2355     1983      1990   Scond Nonformal Education                MOEC                      43.0
2472     1984      1990   Secdaty Education and Mgmt Training      MOEC                      76.6
2547     1985      1993   Seoond Univesity Deveopmt                MOBC                     147.0
2944     1988      1993   HfigherEducationDevelopment              MOEC                     140.3
3158     1990      -      Second Seondary Educaion and Mgmt        MOEC                     154.2
3311     1991      -      SedHigherEduationDeveiopmet              MOEC                     ISOA
3431     1991      -      Thitd Nonformal EduOation                MOEC                      69.5
3448     1992      -      Primay Education Quality Impro ent       MOE'C                     37.0
3496     1992      -      Pm y School TeacherDvelopmwt             MOE'C           ,
S    d   ojf Ptewith MOEC                                      1,1521       67.0
Projects with Other Miisries
288     1972      1978   Seond Education                          MOA/e                               6.3
1692     1979     19S5   Second Agricultural Training              MOA                       34.7
2258     1983      1988   Public Wod&ManpowerDvelopmat             MOPW/d                    29.8
2341     1983      1992   Third Agricultural Tang                  MOA                       62.9
2599     1985      1993   Science and TechnologyTrainng            MORT/c                    93.0
2705     1986      -      Manpower DevAopmnt and Trainig           MOMf                      58.1
2940     1988      -      AccooUty Development                     MOF /g                   113.0
2992     19S8      -      Tre Crop Human Roce Dvelopment           MOA                       18.4
3112     1989      -      Public Wok ldsitution Dv. & Tining       MOPW                      36.1
3134     1989      -      Profbasona Human Rsour  DelpDt   BAPPENAS                         117.5
BPPT/b, MOF
Su**A#J.fProjersiukh OtiEMiaiesfa.rg                             563.5       d3
GRAND TOTAL                                                     1,715.6     73.3
Ia Less cancellaion for the precs whitch have dready bem closd.
/bMOEC  -Mmisiy ofEducation d dcule
/cMOA   -Miit:yofAgrtue
/dMOPW  -Mnisty*ofPublicWodcs
/a MORT  - Misby of Ra       and Tedmolo
If MOM   - Minhtzy of Mnpower
SgMOF   - Miniy of Finance
/hBPPT   - Agency for Asmnt and Applicaton of Tedcnolgr



- 29 -                         ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FYOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
URGE COMPETlTIVE GRANT AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAMS
PROGRAM SUMM IS
Center Grant Program
1.          Objective:  To improve physical, managerial and human resource
infrastructure for high quality research integrated with graduate training in selected
university units with demonstrated potential.
2.          Eligibility:  University units responsible for research-based graduate
training.
3.          Eligible expenditures: Overseas fellowships, equipment, s ientificjournals
and books, overseas visiting scholars, remuneration for administrators and support staff,
and consumables.
4.           Selection criteria: Capability of the unit to conduct a focused, coherent,
integrated program of high quality research and graduate education based on a proven
record of accomplishments. The mission, objectives, and plan should be compatible with
the leadership; scientific environment; and available resources, human and physical; the
track record of the unit as indicated by the capabilities of the members of the unit; and
linkages with other organizations to improve graduate education and to attract additional
resources. Priority would be given to proposals that strengthen Indonesia's capacity for
science and technology.
5.          Selection method: University units will be invited to submit pre-proposals
which will be evaluated to select candidates for invitation for full proposals. Based on
written comments from local as well as international peer reviewers, the URC Commission
will select candidates for a site visit. A site visit will be made by a team consisting of one
local expert, one international expert, and one local generalist, who will ensure consistency
of site visit evaluation. Final awards will be made on the basis of peer reviews, site visits,
and competitive evaluation by an URC Commission.
6.          Monitoring and evaluation: An annual performance evaluation will be
conducted by the Commission based on annual reports and site visits.
Team Grant Program for Graduate Research
7.          Objective: To promote high quality research activities that integrate
graduate students as part of research teams.



-30 -                          ANNEX 2
8            Eligibility: Research teams headed by graduate supervisors that include
his/her graduate students as team members in universities that have the authority to award
graduate degrees.
9.           Eligible expenditures: Research consumables, small research equipment,
overseas and domestic visiting scholars, overseas travel, post-doctoral fellowships,
remuneration for researchers, and research assistantships.
10.          Selection criteria: Quality of proposed research activities in which students
and faculty are jointly involved that are expected to result in publication. Research will
be evaluated on the basis of: expected advances in knowledge generation; relevance to field
as the basis of innovation or improved technology; feasibility of approach, including
methodology and resources; and the effect on the science and technology infrastructure.
Priority would be given to proposals that strengthen Indonesia's capacity for science and
technology.
11.          Selection method: Proposals to be evaluated on a competitive basis by
URC Commissions considering written peer reviews.
12.         Monitoring and evaluation: Research activities and the quality of research
results will be evaluated by the relevant Commission based on annual reports submitted
by principal investigators.  Progress of the participating graduate students will be
monitored and evaluated at the institution.
Young Academics Program
13.          Objective: To facilitate integration of young scholars into research
programs in universities.
14.          Eligibility: People who have obtained a Ph. D.degree within the last two
(three in the first round of competition) years at institutions other than their own.
15.         Eligible expenditures: Research consumables, small research equipment,
remuneration for researchers.
16.          Selection criteria: Potential for being an outstanding staff member as
assessed by: graduate education performance; track record in research based on
accomplishments and publications; and research plan. Priority would be given to
proposals that strengthen Indonesia's capacity for science and technology.
17.          Selection method:  Proposals will be evaluated and selected on a
competitive basis by the appropriate discipline-based URC Commission. Ihe URC
Commission will take into account a confidential written statement from the advisor.



- 31-                         ANNEX 2
18.         Monitoring and evaluation: Progress of the young academics will be
monitored at the institution and productivity evaluated by the appropriate URC
Commission.
In-Country Merit FeUlowship Program
19.         Objective: To attract highly qualified and capable students into domestic
graduate education programs by providing enhanced fmancial support.
20.         Eligibility: Bachelor's degree (Si) graduates with a grade point average
(GPA) of at least 3.0 who are in the top five percent of their class, and are accepted to
graduate programs in Indonesia. Master's degree (S2) graduates/students with a GPA of
at least 3.5 in their S2 programs and a GPA of at least 3.0 in their SI programs.
21.         Eligible expenditures: Tuition, research expenses, book allowances, travel
allowances, and stipends.
22.         Selection criteria: Performance as an undergraduate and during additional
studies, if any, and appropriateness of the applicant's proposed graduate program,
including research. Priority would be given to candidates in fields related to science and
technology.
23.         Selection method: Applications to be selected on a competitive basis by
an URC Commission.
24.         Monitoring and evaluation: The graduate school will monitor the progress
of the student and certify that the student continues to meet the requirements for successful
progress. The graduate school will evaluate the program to determine if it meets its
objective and compare the performance of merit fellows with other graduate students. The
results are reported to the URC Secretariat/PlU for overall program evaluation.
In-Country Ne-Graduate Training Program
25.         Objective: To improve the quality of entering graduate students through
provision of additional training prior to admission to graduate programs.
26.         Eligibility: Indonesian universities with recognized graduate programs of
study that can offer pre-graduate training programs.
27.         Elgible expenditures: Tuition, book allowances, travel allowances, and
stipends.
28.         Selection criteria: Capability of the insftiution to select, receive, and train
the students to prepare them for entrance into a quality graduate program in Indonesia; the
track record of the institution in providing undergraduate and graduate studies; and the



- 32 -                        ANNEX 2
academic content of the proposed pre-graduate instruction. Priority would be given to
proposals that strengthen Indonesia's capacity in science and technology.
29.         Selection method: Proposals submitted by Indonesian universities to
develop comprehensive pre-graduate programs will be selected on a competitive basis by
the URC Special Commission on Graduate Education. Candidates for the pre-graduate
programs will apply to and be selected by the graduate school.
30.         Monitoring and evaluation: The graduate school at the university will
monitor the progress of students and the performance of the program and provide periodic
reports to the URC Special Commission on Graduate Education. Final reports should also
clearly state whether pre-graduate training students were successfully admitted to graduate
programs.
Sandwich Program (Program with Foreign Institutional Linkages)
31.         Objective: To improve the quality of graduate education programs through
sharing of capabilities with foreign institutions.
32.         Eligibility: Indonesian graduate schools that have institutional linkages with
foreign institutions in which part of the training for S3 students can appropriately be done.
33.         Eligible expenditures: Overseas fellowships, travel and academic advisors.
34.         Selection criteria: Soundness of a coherent plan for the linkages between
the institutions; research plans; the potential for continuing interactions; student/staff
qualifications and commitment including proficiency of appropriate foreign language.
Priority would be given to proposals in fields that strengthen Indonesia's capacity for
science and technology.
35.         Selection method: Based on a university proposal incorporating the plans
of the students and staff, the Uf C Special Commission on Graduate Education will select
grantees on a competitive basis.
36.         Monitoring and evaluation: The participating universities will monitor
the progress of the student, the university receiving the grant will be responsible for
periodic reporting to the URC Special Commission on Graduate Education.
Scientific Journal Program
37.         Objective: To improve scientific communication in Indonesia and to
increase recognition internationally through improvement of the quality of refereed national
journals.
38.         Eligibility: Universities and professional societies that publish a scientific
journai.



- 33 -                         ANNEX 2
39.          Eligible expenditures: Overseas visiting scholars, editing of manuscripts,
training of scientific editors and partial publication costs.
40.          Selection criteria: Activities, plans and budget for the journals including
reviewing of articles, regularity of publication, format and appearance, editorial standards,
circulation, and content will be considered. Priority would be given to proposals in fields
related to science and technology.
41.          Selection method:   The URC  Special Commission on Scientific
Publications will review proposals on a competitive basis and reconmmend to the URC for
award.
42.          Monitoring and evaluation: The organization receiving an award will be
required to report on progress periodically, at least once per year, to the Commission,
providing a copy of publications supported, plans developed, budget, and resources
expended. These data will serve as a basis of evaluation and continuing support.
Research Publication Program
43.          Objective: To encourage university researchers to write scientific and
technical articles for publication in reputable and refereed international journals.
44.          Eligibility: University staff member who is the main author of an article
published in a reputable, refereed international scientific journal, who has not previously
received the authorship award.
45.          Eligible expenditures: Publication costs and remuneration for authors.
46.          Selection criteria:  Relationship of Journal to field of work of author,
article to meet international standards of field of study, and international recogniton of the
journal.
47.          Selection method: The appropriate URC Commission will evaluate
proposals and determine whether the criteria and standards for the field of research are
met.
48.          Monitoring and evaluation: The author will provide complete information
on the article, responding to the criteria, with the evaluation of the effectiveness of the
program conducted by the URC Special Commission on Scientific Publications.



-34-                           ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
INIVERSITY RESEARCH COUNCIL (URC)
POLICIES AND OPERATING GUIDELINES
1. INTRODUCTION
URC prograns are based on competitive funding as evaluated by peer
review. The peer review process is therefore a cornerstone of the URC's operation. Peer
review is carried out by discipline based expert Commissions, supported by external
reviewers as required. Where there is a shortage of experts in a field of specialty, foreign
reviewers may participate in the review process.
2. GENERAL OPERATING GUIDELINES
2.1         Policies of the URC and its Commissions . Members of the URC are
appointed b. the Director General of Higher Education (DG) on the basis of recognized
expertise (such as personal research experience), maintaining a balance with respect to
domain of expertise and institutional affiliation. The URC may develop programs and
recommend the Commission structures, memberships, policies, and procedures to the DG.
Commission members and the URC Secretariat work within the policies established by the
URC Council.
The URC Commissions will review applications and make recommendations
based on their relative merits. The Commissions will establish a prioritized short-list and
the URC recommends to the DG which applications are to be supported.
The Commissions will function within established URC rules and
regulations, and will be guided in their function by the URC Vice Chairperson.
Commission members can suggest revisions to the UIRC policies. The URC will
encourage the Commission to set aside time for programmatic discussions at the end of
their meetings and to recommend adjustments of the programs to the URC.
2.2         Recommendations from Commissions. The prime responsibility of the
URC Commissions is to evaluate applications submitted for a particular competition, to
rate them so ta they may be ranked in order of priorihy, and to evaluate the proposed
budget and recommend the funds needed to support the program, if the application is
approved.
Commissions are expected to point out to the URC special issues that may
arise concerning, for example, environment, laboratory safety, eligibility, compatibility
with the Council's policies, and other issues. Such concerns, however, must not prevent
a Commission from evaluating an application placed before it and, unless these issues
directly affect the scientific merit, must not influence the rating. These concerns will be
taken into account by the URC when it recommends whether to award a grant to the
applicant.



- 35 -                         ANNEX 3
Recommendations from the Commissions concerning institutional grants and
team research grants are considered by the URC in reaching its final recommendation.
The URC will, as a general rule, follow the priority rating and budgeting recommendations
of the Commissions and modifies the recommendations only if there are budgetary
restrictions or if conflicts with the general policies of the Directorate General of Higher
Education (DGHE) make it necessary.
Priority lists prepared by the Commissions concerning individual grants such
as fellowships, young academics awards and awards for scientific publication will be
consolidated and recommended for implementation by DGHE by the URC Vice
Chairperson on behalf of the URC and tabled for the first upcoming URC meeting.
2.3         Confi'dentiality. All information contained in applications, comments by
peer reviewers, and Commission discussions are strictly confidential. Commission
members must not give or discuss with applicants or external reviewers any information
relating to the review of a specific application, nor must they offer opinions on the chances
of success or failure. All requests for information on an application or a reviewer report
should be referred to the URC Secretariat.
Applicans will have access to their own application files. Therefore, all
written material used in evaluating an application is made available to the applicants when
they are notified of the DGHE's decision. However, the identity (name) of the reviewers
will not be revealed by the URC Secretariat to applicants. In addition, applicants are
entitled to request further information. The URC Secretariat will provide a summary of
the Commission evaluation in response to a specific request.
2.4         Conflict of Interest. The URC must make every effort to ensure not only
that its recommendations are fair and objective, but also that they are apreciated to be so.
No Commission member with a conflict of interest may participate in the review. The
Commission's Chairperson is responsible for resolving areas of uncertainty.
2.5         Codes of Ethics and Environmental Concerns. URC grants must comply
with codes of ethics as well as codes of environmental concerns, and relevant
environmental regulations.
2.6         Publication of Research Results. All research results funded under the
University Research for Graduate Education (URGE) Project shall be publishable without
restriction.
3. SUMMRY OF PROCESS FOR GRANT APPLICATIONS
All applications received by the deadline are entered into the competition.
Materia arriving after the deadline will be returned to the applicant, and the applicant
informed when the next competitior. will occur.
Commission meetings are held usually within two months of the deadline
and last not more than two days. The URC Secretariat guided by the Vice Chairperson



- 36 -                         ANNEX 3
aims at a maximum work load for a Commission meeting of about 60 applications for a
2-day meeting with no member asked to review more than 20 applications.
In the case of competition for institutional support, the URC considers the
Commission recommendations as soon as possible to reach the final recommendation for
the DG's decision.
In the case of individual grants, the Commission recommendation is
reviewed by the URC Vice Chairperson on behalf of the URC for final recommendation
to the DG.
4. ROLES OF COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON AND URC SECRETARIAT
The Commission Chairperson is central to the proper functioning of the
Commission and is directly responsible to the URC for ensuring that the Commission
functions smoothly, effectively and objectively, according to URC's policies for the
program and agreed URC Commission policies.
4.1         The Commission Chairpersons are required to be fully conversant with URC
policies affecting the procedures of URC Grant Programs and to ensure that the
Commissions operate in a fair and responsible manner.
4.2         Commission Chairpersons and URC Scretariat.  The Commission
Chairpersons and the URC Secretariat are responsible together for ensuring that
applications received by the URC are reviewed by the most appropriate Commission. The
Commission Chairpersons accept responsibility for ensuring that the Commission performs
the review and evaluation of applications. The Commission Chairpersons assisted by the
URC Secretariat in consultation with the Vice Chaiperson identify the Commission
memnbers and external reviewers, whenever justified, who shall review each application.
4.3         The URC Secetariat.  In addition to the duties shared with the
Commission Chairpersons, the URC Secretariat will assist the Commission after the
meeting. The URC Secretariat ensures that the major points from the external reviewer
reports are inserted into the discussion. After the meeting, the Secretariat is reponsible
for responses to applicants regarding their applications. The URC Secretariat supports the
Commission Chairperson in his/her roles during the Commission activities, serves as a link
between the Commissions and the URC, and provides guidance to the Commission on
URC policies.
S. THE COMMISSION PROCESS
It is expected that the Commissions will work in a more consistent manner
if they follow defined procedures developed for each program.
5.1         All Commission members will be familiar with the objectives of each project
and the applicants' experience, as well as with the external reviewer reports. Therefore,
only a brief summary is needed during the meeting.



- 37 -                         ANNEX 3
5.2         Internal reviewers will present proposals including other reviewers'
comments for discussion by the Commission.
5.3         The Commission Chairperson leads the discussion among all Commission
members. All Commission members participate in this discussion, which should consider
both the quality and originality of the proposal as well as the recent productivity of the
applicant(s).
5.4         The Commission Chairperson summarizes the discussion, briefly identifying
the strong and weak points in the propcsal, and its feasibility based on recent productivity.
5.5         The Commission Chairperson seeks consensus on the rating to be given to
the application. If a consensus cannot be reached, a majority vote would be used for the
Commission decision.
5.6         Special concerns of eligibility, ethics, environment, and overlapping sources
of funds or other points are discussed and, if necessary, brought to the attentior. of URC
Secretariat for action.
6     Evaluation Procedures for URGE Programs
6.1   Criteria for Evaluation. All proposals are to be evaluated against the objectives
and criteria stated in the URGE Program Guidelines. Criteria generally consist of
eligibiUly criteria of the proposers, proposal contents, and categories of support, and
selection criteria against which the quality of work proposed would be assessed. Proposals
that are rejected by the Commissions or the Secretariat as ineligible, are summarized along
with the reasons for rejection, and reported to the URC for affirmation.
6.2   Proposal Evaluation Procedures.
Center Grant Program
a.    A program announcement will be issued and distributed to all rectors,
faculty deans, and research center directors in public and private
universities with graduate programs.
b.    Pre-proposals
i.    Universities may screen pre-pro.- . als using internally developed
procedures, usually involving per.. iel of the University. The
procedure for screening pre-propos.,is will be clearly stated and
reported to the URC.
ii.   Pre-proposals will be sent to the URC by the rector, director of
graduate studies, director of research institutes or other persons
designated by the university.
iii.   A preliminary screening will be conducted by the URC Secretariat
for eligibility, format, and conformance to guidelines.



- 38 -                         ANNEX 3
iv.   Pre-proposals will be forwarded to the Special Commnission on the
Center Grant Program for evaluation in order to short-list
approximately twice the number of potential awards for continued
consideration.
v.    Short-listed units will be invited to submit full proposals based on
specific guidelines for a full proposal which will be provided.
vi.   Letters of declination will be sent to those whose proposals are no
longer being considered, along with suggestions for improvement or
for alternative sources of support.
c.    Full Proposals
i.    The URC Secretariat will assemble and classify the proposals,
organize the review and carry out the review process as suggested
by the Special Commission on the Center Grant Program.
ii.    A check list will be developed by the Special Commission on the
Center Grant Program in considering all proposals, based on
selection criteria and indicators included in the Center Grant
announcement and letter of invitation. The check list will be used
by all persons involved in the evaluation process, but will not be
used to limit observations and findings.
iii.   Peer reviewers will be selected from lists of potential reviewers,
generally consisting of three overseas and three in-country
reviewers.
iv.   A team of three experts, consisting of one Indonesian and one
foreign specialist and one Indonesian generalist will be sent to
conduct a site visit.
v.    The Special Commission on the Center Grant Program will evaluate
proposals using peer reviewer comments and site visit evaluation
results.
vi.   Recommendations for potential awards will be made by the Special
Commission on the Center Grant Program to the URC.
vii.  Recommendations for awards will be given by the URC to the DG
for approval.
viii.  The URC Secretariat/P.T will conduct negotiations with the
proposed awardees to develop the grant agreements.
ix.   Letters of declination will be sent to those not to be funded,
including a summary of comments and suggestions by reviewers.
Team Grant Program for Graduate Research and Young Academics Program
a.    An invitation to submit proposals will be issued through Program
announcements, with specific deadlines.
b.    Evaluation of individual proposals will be conducted by the appropriate
URC Commission, or by a combination of Commissions for
interdisciplinary activities.
c.    The criteria stipulated in the Program announcement for each program will
be used as the basis of evaluation. Proposals that do not meet the eligibility
and minimum criteria will be eliminated.



- 39 -                        ANNEX 3
d.    Peer reviewers, generally a minimnurn of three, will be selected and will
provide comments on given grant pr oposals.
e.    Recommendations for potential awards will be made by the Commission to
the URC, which in turn will recomn;end the awards to the DGHE through
the Secretariat for approval.
In-Country Merit Fellowship Programs
a.    An announcement to invite applications for the Programs will be issued
through the public media.
b.    The Secretariat will screen all applications for eligibility as listed in the
program announcement.
c.    The URC Special Commission on Graduate Education will evaluate the
screened applications and will make recommendations to che URC Vice
Chairperson for the granting of fellowships.
d.    Recommendations for award will be made to the DG by tk. URC Vice
Chairperson on behalf of the URC, and reported to the URC in the
subsequent URC meeting.
d.   Award decisions will be notified to candidates, subject to admission to a
graduate program.
e.    The Secretariat and the PIU will be responsible for administering tLe
fellowships.
In-Country re-graduate Training Program and Sandwich Program
a.    An invitation to submit proposals will be issued through Program
announcements with specific deadlines and distributed to all eligible
graduate schools.
b.   The Secretariat will first screen all proposals for eligibility as listed in the
Program announcements.
c.    Recommendations for awards will be made on the basis of evaluation
conducted by the URC Special Commission on Graduate Education.
d.    Specific selection procedures can include interviews with deans of graduate
schools. These procedures should appear in the program announcement.
e.    Following recommendations by the URC and approval by the DGHE, the
Secretariat and PIU will administer the decisions.
Scientific Journal and Research Publication Programs
a.    Announcements of the programs will be issued to all eligible candidates.
b.    The Secretariat will first screen all proposals for eligibility as stated in the
Program announcements.
c.    The Special Commission on Scientific Publications will evaluate proposals.
d.    Recommendations will be made to the URC and DG for consideration and
following approval, will be implemented by the Secretariat, including the
PIU.



-40-                         ANNEX 3
7. BUDGET DETERMINATION
The URC will provide the funds needed to carry out the approved proposal
effectively. The appropriate budget is very much a matter for judgment by the
Commission in accordance with the eligible expenses included in the specific program
guidelines. The Commission may recommend funds for only a part of the proposed sub-
project, if justified, based on other available resources and prograun objectives. The
Commission may be of the opinion that a highly rated project can effectively use a large
grant to increase productivity without sacrificing quality; conversely, the progress made
by an applicant may be judged of high quality, but less than expected from previous
funding, and the Commission may recommend a more modest budget.
Discussion on budgets may be influenced not only by the perceived costs
of the sub-project proposed, but also by judgment of the feasibility of the proposed sub-
project. Considerations on the sustainability will be taken into account in budget
recommendations.



-41-                           ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
UNIVERSfTY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMEM
AND TEM    OF REFERENCE FOR TME SECETARAT AND
THE PRoJECT  mLEmENTATION UNT
Organizational Structure
1.          The Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) in the Ministry of
Education and Culture will be responsible for overall management of the proposed project.
Under the general authority of the DGHE, implementation responsibilities will be shared
among: (a) the University Research Council (URC); (b) seven URC discipline-based
Standing Commissions, special Commissions on the Center Grants Program, Graduate
Education and Scientific Publicatin respectively; (c) the Secretariat to the URC, which
will be established as a functional unit consisting of specially appointed staff and
supplemented by seconded staff from the Directorate of Academic Affairs (DAA) and the
Directorate of Research and Community Service Development (DRCSD), that will provide
administrative support to the implementation of URC programs; and (d) a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) which will specialize in administrative matters that are specific
to Bank projects.
2.           University Researdk Council. The URC has been established through a
Ministerial Decree, as a semi-auto imous body responsible for policies and programs in
support of university research ancs graduate education. More specifically, the URC will
meet at least two times a year to: (a) advise the DGHE on policies and long-term
strategies for university research, training of researchers, and graduate education in
Indonesian universities; (b) recommend priorities among programs related to university
research and graduate education and where appropriate, fields to be supported; (c) approve
program descriptions including eligibility and selection criteria; (d) provide program
oversight based on monitoring and evaluation data; (e) recommend budgetary allocations
for all research programs within DGHE; and (t) maintain the integrity of the selection
process. The URC will absorb all responsibilities formerly held by the National Graduate
Education Council established in 1986, which has been announced through a Ministerial
decree.
3.          URC Membership. The Council will consist of about sixteen members
who have been selected on the basis of recognized expertise such as personal research
experience, maintaining a balance with respect to domain of expertise and institutional
affiliation. Individual members will be recruited from DGHE, universities, the National
Research Council (DRN), and BAPPENAS, as well as from private enterprises. The
Director General will be the Chairperson of the URC, and will appoint a Vice
Chairperson. The Director of Research and Community Service Development, the
Director of Academic Affairs in the DGHE and the chairpersons of the Standing
Commissions will also be members.



2 -                          ANNEX 4
4.           URC Commissions.  Seven URC Standing Commissions have been
established, one each for the Humanities, Education, Social Sciences, Basic Sciences,
Agriculture, Health, and Engineering. Special Commissions would also be established to
manage particular programs such as the Center Grants Program, Graduate Education
Programs and Scientific Publication Programs. The Commissions will: (a) develop
program descriptions and establish eligibility and selection criteria; (b) determine the
timing of proposal submissions and awaid announcements; (c) propose methods of
evaluation; (d) evaluate proposals and make recommendations on awards; and (e) monitor
activities undertaken under grants. Each Commission consists of 6 to 10 experts with
attention given to maintaining a balance between areas of specialization and educational
institutions. A majority of members will be active researchers of international standing.
5.           Secretariat. The DGHE provides the Secretariat to the URC, through
establishing a functional unit. The secretariat is responsible for ensuring consistency and
coherence in DGHE policies on university research and graduate education. The
administrative capacity of the Secretariat will be developed under the project, through
technical assistance and training and according to draft terms of reference for the
Secretariat and a detailed management and staffing plan. 'he Secretariat will delegate
Bank project specific tasks to a small PIU such as disbursement of Bank funds and
monitoring of expenditures.
Terms of Reference for the Secretariat
6.           Structure and Reporting. The Secretariat will be established as a special
functional unit within the DGHE. The Secretariat will report to the URC, chaired by the
Director General of Higher Education, but its day-to-day activities will be supervised by
the Vice Chairperson for the URC.
7.           Supporting Functions for the URC Policies. The Secretariat will provide
administrative support for the URC in formulation of the URC policies. It will:
(a)   draft and finalize under guidance of the URC, rules, guidelines and
procedures for the operation of the URC and its Commissions;
(b)   liaise and coordinate with the DRCSD and the DAA for integration of
graduate research and graduate education;
(c)   develop guidelines for evaluation based on agreed criteria for grant and
fellowship programs under guidance of the URC and its Commissions;
(d)   assemble lists of peer reviewers under directions from  the URC
Commissions;
(e)   following URC approval, submit final recommendations to DGHE on
distribution of funds;
(f)   notify all applicants about the results of the URC selection, and publicize
the list of grants for each competition; and



-43 -                          ANNEX 4
(g)   provide logistic support to URC Commissions and collect data for
monitoring and evaluation of program activities.
8.           Technical/Administrative Functions. The Secretariat will, in consultation
with the URC Commissions:
(a)   prepare announcements for programs;
(b)   receive and distribute proposals for evaluation by the discipline based URC
Commissions;
(c)   submit proposals to peer reviewers;
(d)   organize site visits;
(e)   submit proposals, peer reviews, and results of site visits to URC
Commissions for evaluation and priority ranking; and
(f)   collect rankings from the URC Commissions and prepare under directions
from the Vice Chairperson of the URC, final recommendations to be
adopted by the URC.
9.           The Vice Chairperson will be responsible for operational guidance to the
URC and will provide day-to-day guidance to the Secretariat through its unit manager to
ensure that URGE activities are implemented successfully.
10.         Staffing. The Secretariat will consist of:
(a)   Secretariat manager, who is responsible for assigning tasks as defie by
the URC and its Commissions to the Secretariat staff and will repor. to the
Vice Chairman of the URC who will have day to day oversight
responsibilities for the Secretariat;
(b)   Vice manager, who will assist the Secretariat manager;
(c)   Program assistants for the different URC sub-programs, including URGE,
to be drawn from the DRCSD and DAA and to be recruited under the
project. Program assistants will work closely with URC Commission
members assigned by the URC to conduct program related tasks;
(d)   Policy analyst, who will work closely with the Secretariat manager in
policy related tasks for the URC including overall performance evaluation;
Terms of Reference for the Project Implementation Unit
11.         Bank Loan Related Tasks will be undertaken by the PIU established for
the URGE project. The PIU will deal with the many administrative/clerical functions
resulting from a Bank loan, and will report, on a day to day basis, vo the Secretariat



-44-                           ANNEX 4
manager. The PIU will be dissolved once the URGE project is completed. The PIU will
have the following functions:
(a)   disburse Loan funds following approval of specific research and graduate
education proposals;
(b)   monitor loan expenditures and follow up on no objection letters for
research and graduate education proposals;
(c)   prepare progress reports for the Bank;
(d)   monitor Loan-financed procurement activities;
(e)   assist in collecting data for monitoring and evaluation.
12.          Staffing. The PIU will consist of a unit chief, a financial officer, two
contract officers in charge of research and graduate education programs respectively, and
clerical staff.



INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
Irmrovina Pannina and Manaoement Comoonent
Consultant ServIces Requirements
Standard
Status of TOR                  Contract Responsibility
Implementing  Staffmonth    April, 1994       Work       Prepared for Supervision
Type of Consultant Activity                     Agency    Int'l Local  Draft  Final    Start   Finish   (YIN)   RSI   HO
1. Institutional Capacitv Buildino
a. URC institutional development                DGHE        21       Apr-94   Jun-94 Oct-94    Aug-99    Y                X           I
b. Scientific journal editor                    DGHE        12       Apr-94   Jun-94 Oct-94    Mar-98    Y                X          v
c. Development of databases for prir.cipal      DGHE             30  Apr-94  Sept 94 Mar-95    Feb-96    Y                X
investigators and peer reviewers
tl. Imalamentation Suaoopt
a. Center grant proposal evaluation             DGHE        21       Apr-94   Jun.94 N!ov-94    Dec-94    Y               X
b. Mid-term review                              DGHE         4    4 Apr-94   Apr-96 Sept 96   Dec-96    Y                 X
c. Technical audit                              DGHE             10           Jun-95 Oct-95    Aug-99    Y                X
d. Implementation completion review             DGHE              4  Apr-94  Sept 98 Mar-99   Aug-99    Y                 X
e. Evaluation of quality and relevance of graduate  DGHE         45  Apr-94   Mar-98 Jun-98   May-99    Y                 X
education and research
Total                                                   58   93
2
2
m
x
0"



INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary Implementation Schedule
I004     _          10S6                1996                1097                i9t8                199
Nowe                                     Start   Finish   Award CW210t3r 3|4  tr1|0tr2t3ot4Otr1otr210t3|0tr4OtrtlOtr2Citr3Itr4Qtrttr20ft3jtr41Qtr tr2ft3O tr4
Center Grunt Pwroam                     10-1-94  8-27-99          {
Fint Batch                          10 1-94  8-27-99      B a         O1                                                                 21
Seownd Batch                         4-1-95  8-27-99     10
Thkd Batch                           4-1-98  8-27-99     12                                          _IIL       T         T               1      1     1      N m _
Team Grant Progrm fcr OG duate EducatIon    10-1-94  3-26-99               _
Fa -t f tch                         10-1-94  9-26-97     40           tmIllU        _ WI-
Second Batch                         4-1-95  3-27-98     so _w            m      =151  1=  nmm
Third Batch                          4-1-96  3-268-9     6o 0mm _                                                     Tnn
Yorn Acades  4P1g95 4-                             291-0   92
FMt Batch                            4-1-95  3-28-97    100                       1     1      1    -     E    l   Imilm
Second Batch                         4_ __96  3_27-98 t
Third Batch                          4-1-97  3-29-99     60
Mear feowship Progm                      9-1-94  8-27-99                   _
First Batch                          9-1-04  8-27-07    105         DmDliliill _         _               _                                                                         b
Second Batch                         9-1t96  8-27-98    4tO                                                                                                                        a
Third Batch                          9-1-96  8-27-00    320
Pro-Graduate Trainine Progm              901-06  8-26-90
First 8atch                          9.1 95  8 26-99      b
Sndwikh Pwram                            S-1-96  827-S9
Firt Batch                           9-1-69  8-28-90     10                             Imyliil
Second Batch                         9-1-97  8-27-00    tO                                                                       Z1mn       11                    _
Scintfic Joumal Powgram                 10-1-94  3-26-99                   _
First Betch                         10t1-94  0-26-7       5           (UIE1
Sond Batch                           4-1-96  3-27-98     10                                       _      1     1      _      1     1 mimil
Thid Btch                            4-1-96  3-26-09     10                                                             __               1-11m1m1 111mm
Reserch PublIat  Pogram                  9-1-04  8-30-09 0             w
Firt atch                            9-1-04  _-30-9      30
Soccen Betch                         S twS5  8-29-98     SO-                            milliiilIN
Thco Batch                           9-1.06  8-20-96     EO m60u
Foam Batch                           9 t-97  8 28 9B                                                                             MM Ilil
Fifth Batch                          0-1-06  6-30-00    100
04



- 47 -                        ANNEX 7
ENDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
PtoJECr MoNmroUN=G AD EVAWAnON
1.          Monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project will be undertaken
at several distinct levels:
(a)   Individual Grants/Fellowships:
(i) to monitor financial accounts and performance in order to determine
whether funding should be continued in the case of multiple-year
grants/fellowships; and
(ii) to evaluate the performance and effectiveness of individual
grants/fellowships; and
(b)   Progranm and Project Level: to monitor project implementation, and to
evaluate the effectiveness of the programs supported by the project with
respect to their individual objectives. Input, process and outcome indicators
for programs are listed in Annex 8.
Individual Grants/Fellowships
2.          Individual grants/fellowships will be awarded on the basis of proposals that
include input requirements, proposed activities and output plans. Activities under
imdividual grants and fellowships will be reported annually and monitored through annual
repois submitted by the grantees and reviewed by the URC. In the case of larger grants,
these reports will be complemented by interviews and/or site visits by reviewers appointed
by the URC. Financial reports would be submitted by recipients of institutional and
research grants on a semi-annual basis. Based on these, the continuation of funding would
be detemined.
3.          At the end of the grantfellowship period, beneficiaries will submitfinal
reports, including a self-assessment with respect to the original plan submitted.
Program/Project Level Monitoring and Evaluation
4.          Purpose and Structure. Project level monitoring and evaluation activities
have the following specific purposes:
(a)   to monitor progress of project implementation as compared with the
original plan; and
(b)   to evaluate effectiveness of the project with respect to its objective to
improve the quality of university research and graduate education, both at
the sectoral level and at program specific levels.
To this end, four types of reports would be compiled, as described below.



-48 -                         ANNEX 7
5.          Baseline Report. The Secretariat under guidance from the URC would
summarize the current status of university research and graduate education to establish the
basis of sectoral evaluation using data collected from several distinct sources:
(a)   Quantitative Data on Graduate Educadon collected by the Secretariat
from graduate schools in November 1993 including intake, enrollments,
and graduates by level, source of funding, field, and average duration; and
(b)   Baseline Surveys to be conducted by external consultants to document
qualitative aspects of graduate education and research auivities in all
universities with graduate education programs. The baseline survey would
comprise:
(i)  a survey of qualified graduate supervisors to collect information on
their current research activities and level of graduate supervision
responsibilities; and
(ii)  a sample survey of graduate students to collect information on their
academic and employment backgrounds, problems related to
financing, and graduate supervision.
6.          Annual Reports. Annual reports would consist of two parts: (a) URC
generic information to be compiled by the Secretariat as the URC annual rerort; and
(b) project specific information to be compiled by the PIU. Annual reports will be
submitted to the World Bank by August 31 for the previous fiscal year ending March 31,
and form the basis for discussion during the subsequent supervision mission.
7.          The URC annual report would focus primarily on input and process
indicators as defned in a separate annex and its content will be gradually built up to
include:
(a)   a summary of grant and fellowship program activities in terms of numbers
of applications received and awards made as compared with the original
plan, distribution of awards by institutions and fields;
(b)   sectoral data from graduate schools including intake, enrollments, and
graduates by level, source of funding, field, and average duration;
(c)   a summary of training and other service activities conducted by the URC;
and
(d)   a summary of URC activities including input and process indicators, such
as administrative costs as percentage of total grants administered, number
of grants per Secretariat staff, and average process time for grant
applications.
8.          The PIU report would include: (a) a summary of financial commitments
made as compared with the original plans; (b) major implementation problems; and (c) a
revised implementation plan for the following year.



- 49 -                         ANNEX 7
9.           Mid-term Review. The mid-term review would be conducted by the
Seretariat with the inputs commissioned to external consultants. It would comprise iner
alla:
(a)   evaluation of program activides and their effectiveness in terms of input,
process and selected outcome indicators;
(b)   an assessment of URC effectiveness through examination of its outcome
indicators such as: (i) beneficiary satisfaction as measured through a survey
of researchers and graduate students; (ii) the level of response from the
beneficiary population; (iii) a summary of policy recommendations made
by the URC and those that are adopted; and (iv) a summary of information
disseminated by the URC in terms of its activities and programs.
(c)   a summary of financial commitments as compared with the original plan;
(d)   a summary of implementation issues; and
(e)   recommendations.
10.         Implementation Completion Report. The implementation completion
report would be prepared with inputs from extemal consultants commissioned by the URC,
and would include, in addition to items listed in the Mid-term Review:
(a)   an external evaluation conducted in terms of URC  and Program
effectiveness; and
(b)   an assessment of graduate education and research through externally
commissioned studies (e.g. tracer studies, and follow-up surveys of
graduate supervisors and graduate students).



- 50 -                                           ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
TNIVERSiTY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
COMPONENT MONVrQNG AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
Cmponeant Objectives               Input n1d1aors                     Poces licator                      OuWome Indicators
University Resarch Couc
hmprove slecton mechanism          Number of meeiags by the           Proces   time   per  grant         leneficiary satisfaction:
for enCoagig high qvuity           URC and Commissions                (selection, contracting)            -knowledge of URC programs
research   and   graduate                                                                                 -peception  of fairness  of
education                         AAeandanco in mwetings              Succes  rate: ratio betwen         proces
applications and awad              -adequacy of URC membership
Administative cods as % of
total grants                       Number of grants per staff         Policy  recommendations
adopted
URC memaber satisfaction
Annual reports published and
distributed
Coverage of Programs
Canter Grant Program
Improve physica and human          Number and size  of grants         Process  time   per  grant         Graduate   education
resource infrascture for high      awarded (by field, institution)    (selection. contracing)            perfrmance
quality  graduate  education                                                                              - dissertations completed
integrated with  rearch            Average size of grant awarded      Succes  rate: ratio betwon          - applicants and intake
applications and award             - new graduate courses offered
Budget breakdown by ategory                                           - Average GPA (for new and
of expenditures                                                       on-going students)
* Average duration of S2 and
S3
Research performance
- publications
- research grants obtained
- coilaborative research with
outside institutions
- full-tire researeh staff
. patents
Team Rmac Pm
Pcotvtoies  tuhaty iaegareh        Number of grsu  awaio ed by        Proct    cont   per  gaaci          Publicatio ur in   refereed
aetivities   thtat   integrate    field and inditution                (selection, contractiag)           jousrnas (co-worabip with
graduate asudea  a  part of                                                                              graduat students)
reseac teams                       Average size of grants
Succes  rate: ratio between        Graduate student dissertation
applications Nad award             supported
Yew,g As a_c Prrm                  Number of grants awarded by        Process time per grat              Publications
field and intution,               (selection, contracting)
Application for other grants
Average size of grnts
Success rate: r;o between          Evidence  of  noa-departure
applications and award             from the university
Evidence of increased
responsibility (position held)



-51-                                            ANNEX 8
Component Objewve                 Input IndIcators                   Prees Indicators                   Outcome Indicators
Merit Fellowship Program
Attract bettergraduate tudents    Number  of  fellowships            Process  time  per  grant          Relativeacademicperformanee
awarded by field and institution  (selection, contracting)           compared with other
Size of fellowship (breakdown     Success rate: ratio between        Average duration of degree
by category of support e.g.,      applications and award             training,  by   field  and
tuition, tipead).                                                    institution
No. of graduates compieted,
by field and institution          Publications (co-authorship)by
graduate students
Tracer survey of S32S3
graduates:
-average salary
-position
1peopl, supervism
-research activities (number of
grants obtained)
-accepted articles in refereed
journals since graduation
-rescarch cooperationactivities
-management activities
-international liakages
-graduate studan supervised
Pro-graduate training
Progra                            Deacription of grants awarded      Proces   time  per  grant          % of candidates accepted ia
Improve the cpbiit  of            (type of trainiag, institution,    (selection, congtractin)           graduate programs
eanting grdustdents               size, and number of students
supported)                        Succes  rate: ratio between        Performance  in  subsequent
applications and award            graduate programs
Sndedh Prvgam
Improve  the  quaity   of         Number of gran  awardd             Process  time  per  grant          S3 graduates
domestic gradue  education                                           (selection, contracting)
through sag of capabilities       Average size of grant                                                 Coverageofgraduateprograms
with foreign universitie                                             Sucecss rate. ratio between
applications and award
Joint research projects
Academic exchange
hCo-uthored  publications in
refereed journas (domestie and
iatermational)
Setentific   Publications:
Joual Grnts Pogram
Improve  scientific               Number of grats awarded            Proces   time  per  grant          Increase in eirculation of the
communicationforhighqulality                                         (slcltion, coatracting)            supporedjournals
graduate  education   and         Average size of award
university resarch                                                   Succes  rate: ratio betwoen        Change   in   geographical
applications and award            coverage of eirculation
Number and origin of aricles
submitted for publication
Time between receiving
articles and publication
Seientific   Publication:
Incentives                        Number of grants avwded            Proces   time  per  grant          Change in publication patterns
Encourage  international                                             (selection, contracting)           of authors supported
dissemination  of  rsearch        Average size of grats
reults                                                               Succes rate  ratio between         Citations
applications and ward



- 52 -                          ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Timing     Length    Mission Purpose                 Team Composition
(Staffweeks)
1. Sept. 1994    2      Start-up                        Economlst
Higher Education Specialist
2. Feb. 1995    2       Review of Financial Status      Economist
Review of Contracting Processes   Implementation Specialist
3. Sept. 1995    2      Discussion of Annual Report     Economist
Post Review of Grants           Higher Education Specialist
4. May 1996     2       Review of Financial Status      Economist
Review of Contracting Processes   Implementation Specialist
5. Oct. 1996    2       Discussion of Annual Report     Economist
Post Review of Grants and       Higher Education Specialist
Discussion of Technical Audits
6. May 1997     2       Review of Financial Status      Economist
Review of Contracting Processes   Implementation Specialist
7. Oct. 1997    2       Mid-term Review Discussion      Economist
Post Review of Grants and       Higher Education Specialist
Discussion of Technical Audits  Research Council Specialist
8. May 1998      2      Review of Financial Status      Economist
Review of Contracting Processes   Implementation Specialist
9. Oct. 1998    2       Discussion of Annual Report     Economist
Post-review of Grants and       Higher Education Specialist
Discussion of Technical Audits
10. May 1999    2      Review of Financial Status       Economist
Preparation of the Implementation  Higher Education Specialist
Completion Report
11. Dec. 1999    2      Discussion of the Implementation   Economist
Completion Report               Higher Education Specialist
Research Council Specialist



INDONESIA
University Research fbr Grduate Education Project
Expendit r Account by Components
Totls Including Contingenies tRuphh Blillon)                      Totals Includ   Contin=enes (US$ Million)
CompeWtve Grant and FellwhIp                                     Compii  Gant and FUo@wship
Progrms                                                          Programs
Improving   Cnter Rsch Oduat                                 Improving    C r    Reseach    GrOduat
Planningo &    Ont  OGnt  Education   Scintc                 Planing &    Grant    OGant    Eduction    Scientifi
Managenwnt  "m Poaroam Pmgim   Publicatons  Total    Management Program   Programs   P                     Pubicatom    Total
L Investmen Costs
A. bn Ittional Grant
1. CenterGts                                        -    77.0       -                          77.0                    O366           -           -                 36.6
2. P raduate Ta    Gfant                            -                       6.9            -    6.9              -                              33              -    3.3
3 SnmdwIch Programn Gant                            -                -      5.6                 5 5.8            -         -          -         2.7             -    2.7
4. Journal Grant                                    -1-6_       -     _                          1.6                        -         -           -              0 .7
Subeotall nuOkonalOrs 0                               *    77.0       -      12.5          1.6   91.1                     36.6          -0                     0.7   43.3
L Reseach Grant
1. Team ResearchG s                                 -             57.9                         57.9                        -       27.5                        -   27.5
2. YoungAcademGrant                                 .             101         -           -    10.1                                 4.8           -             -    4.6
3. Reseah Publiation Gmnts                          -       -        -        -          2.6    2.6              -         -          -           -           1.3    13
Subtol Reerch Grant                                           -    680                    2.6   70.6                         -       32.3           -           1.3   33.6
C. Consultnt Se8les
1. Interaonal Caurltan                            2.0       -       -         -           -    2.0             1.0         -          -           -            -    1.0
2. Local Consut                                   0.5       -        -        -           -    0.5             0.2                                             -    0.2
Subtal Consultant Sv                                2.5       -       -                     -    2.5             1.2                    -           -            -    1.2
Q Fellowps and Training
1. Dom.c FdMshps                                                           29.3                29.3             -          -          -        13.9             -   13.9
2. OeSaTraining                                  0.3       -       -                           0.3            0.1                    -           -             -    0.1
3. Domesc TraIi                                   1.0                         -                 1.0            0.5                    -           -             -    0.5
Su1a Fellbwhips andr Tning                         1.3               -      29.3                30.6            0.6         -          -        13.9             -   14.5
L Pro   anageme_ntlI                                2.8                         -                 2.8            1.3                    -           -            -    1.3
Total InvsOtment Coxts                                6.6   77.0    6&0        41.8         4.2  197.6             31       36.6       32.3        19.9           2.0   93.9
L ZInc  ntal Recurrent Costb                          7.7       -                 -           -    7.7             3.7         -                     -             -    3.7
etalP1Wb0CT COSTS                                      14.3   77.0    68.0       41.8         4.2  205.3            6.8      3.6         32.3       19.9           2.0   97.6
Tas                                                         2.7       -         -           -    2.7                       1.3          -           -             -    1.3
Forsp Erohae                                        2.2   56.5    27.1        50           1.8   92.6            1.1      26.9       12.8         2.4           0.8   44.0
Inlnudes PiU operatin coats, Le honorati, tavl. OSM. ema amounr of oie equimnad w  conaum .
. Includes URC and Commlsaon Inmenta honorai, btal, 0M, and co rnable nMtarlalL
0



INDONESIA
Univrity Research for Graduae Educatfon Project
Expenditure Accounts by Yeas
Totals Inclukn ContInr      ttpb slio               Tdals nld   Ct        cUSS          )
99    9W96   96/97   97/56   8J99   Tdal           94/96 99    9/ W N9M7   97/9W    _99M   Tdal
L Investmnt Costs
A. InstItuiona Grants
1. Ceter Grans                                 3.9    129    22.0    20.5    17.7    77.0          1.8    6.1    10.5      9.8     8.4    36.6
2.Pre-GraclateTrn a                              -      1.6     1.6     1.8     1.9     6.9         -      0.8     0.6     0.8     0.9     3.3
3 SPawichPmrogmGats                              -      IA      1.3     1.4     1.5     5.6         -      0.6     0.7     0.7     0.7     27
4. Joural Grants                               02       0.4     0.6     0.3     0.1     1.6        0.1     02      02      0.1     0.1     0.7
SubtotadlnstltutlfuleGt                          4.1    16.3    25.5    24.0    212    91.1          1.9     7.7    122    1i.4    10.1    4&3
I Reswach Grants
1. Teamn Research Grant                        4.4    11.3    18.      15.0     8.3    57.9       2.1      5.4     9.0     7.1     39    27.5
2 YoAgcadenlos Grant                             -      2.5     3.8     2.5     1.3    10.1         -      12      1.8     12      0.6     4.8
3. Research Publation Gmnts                    0.2      0.4     0.6     0.7     0.7     2.6        0.1     02      0.3     0.3     OA      1.3
Subtotd ResearchtCroft                           4.6    142      23.3    182    10.3    70.6        2.2      6.8    11.1     8.6     4.9    33.6        1
C. Consultant Services
1. Inftne ll Consultant                        0.5      0.6     0.6     02      0.1     2.0        02      02      0.3     02      0.1     1.0       X
2. Local Constnts                                -      0.1     0.1     0.1     02      0.5         -      0.1       -       -     0.1     02
Subtotd ConsuttaServlces                         0.5      0.7     0.7     0.3     0.3     2.5       02       0.3     0.3     02      02      12
D. FewshIp. and Training
1. Dometc Felbosha                             1.1     7.3    10.8      7.8     2.3    29.3       0.5      3.5     5.1     3.7     1.1    13.9
2. Ovem   Trai                                   -      02        -     0.1       -     0.3        0.0      1      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1
3. Domes TTnng                                 02       0.2     0.3     0.3       -     1.0        0.1     0.1     0.1     02              0.5
Subtotl Fell_ bpsand Tralrdng                    1.3     7.7    11.1      82      23    30.6        0.6      3.7     52      3.9     1.1    14.5
LProjectM Mngnent/ a                             1.6     05       0.3     02      02      2.8       0.8      02      0.1     0.1     0.1     1.3
Totlm hw.snentCostslb                             12.1    39.4    60.9    50.9    34.3   197.6        5.7    18.7    28.9    242    16.4    939
LI  hcrm    RtaCRsurrentCosts                      1.2     1.7    2.1       1.6    1.1      7.7       0.6      0.8     1.0     0.8     0.5     3.7
Tdal PROJECT COSTS                                 13.3    41.1    63.0    52.5    35.4   205.3        6.3    19.5    29.9    25.0    16.9    97.6
la Iudes PIU opera    cos* Le. horobwla, ftwel, OW, ana  ont of offike equpen and consumbl
lb hnldes URC aid Con _nsso  kIru_nta honom, tel, O&, and conumable materIs
I



INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION (URGE) PROJECT
Selection. Contractina and Review ResoonsibliUtes
Selection and Approval                       Contract
Bank Review
Estimated                                                                                  Disbursement
Contract                                                                     CGHE to Sign  Method from
Category             Year   Quantity     Evaluated      Approved       Prepared Kind /d        By             With      Loan Proceed
Irutional Grant la
Center Grant
First Batch                     1         8      Commission  URC                SEC/PiU   Umited Priot   TM /I     Univ. Canter       SOE
The Rest (12,10)                2        22      Commission  URC                SECIPiU   Random Post   SPN /f    Univ. Center        SOE
Pro-Graduate Training            2         5      Commission  URC                SEC/PIU   Umited Prior    TM       Grad. School       SOE
Sandwich Proatam
First Batch                     1        10      Commission  URC                SEClPIU   Umited Prior    TM       Grad. Sdcoel       SOE
Second Batch                    3        10      Commision   URC                SEC/PIU   Random Poet   SPN        Grad. School       SOE
Journal Grant
First Batch                     1         5      Commission  URC                SEC/PIU   Umited Prior    TM       Sol. Journal       SOE
Second and Third Batches       2,3       20      CommIssion  URC                SEC/PIU   Random Post   SPN        Sci. Journal       SOE
ieereah Grant
Young Academics                 2.3,4     200     Commission  Vice-Chair URC     SEC/PiU   Random Post   SPN         Researcher        SOE
Team Grant la                                                                                                                                               UL
T,e First 10 Grants             1        10      Commission  URC                SEC/PIU   Umited Prior   TM        Researcher         SOE C
The Rest 130,60,80           1t,2,3      1SO     Commisdon   URC                SEC/PIU   Random Post   SPNW       Researcher         SOE
Publieion Incentives         1,2,3,4,5    20     Commission  Vice-Chair URC     SEC/PIU   Random Post   SPN         University        SOE
Graduete Educatien
Fellowships - 82(787); S3(128)  1.2,3     WA      Commission  Vioe-Chair URC
Conwidtant
International (58 months) /b   1,3       23      Secretariat   Vice-Chair URC   PiU       Umited Prior    TM       Consultant     Full Doo/SOE
Local 493 months) /c         1,2,3,4,5    5      Secretariat   Vice-Chair URC   PiU       Umited Prior    TM       Consutant          SOE
Overseas Training (28 months)    1,2,3,4,5  5     Secretariat   Vice-Chair URC    PiU       Umited Prior    TM       Secretariat       SOE
Domestio Training               1,2       WA      Secretariat   Vice-Chair URC
493
Ia Program announcement for all instttional grants and team grants will be reviewed by the Bank.
lb Inludes URC institutional development; Center Grant proposal evaluation; Scientific journal editor, and mid-term review.
Ic Midterm review, implementation completion review, technical audits, database development and evaluation.
Id Prior Review, Random Post Review; and Umited Prior Review (draft contracts should be sent together with a summary of the evaluation process and
proposal, but no need for a NOL for signed contract and disbursement).
Ie Task manager.
/f Supervison missions.
I



-56 -                        ANNEX 12
HiDONESIA
UNIVERSiT RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
ESIMATED SCHEDuLE OF DIsuRsEn
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year    Amount per       (umIaive    Disbursement profile La
semester        Amount %              %
(US$ million) -
199S
1                   3.0           3.0    5                 0
2                   0.0            3.0    5                3
1996
1                   5.5            8.5   14                6
2                   5.5           14.0   24               10
1997
1                   7.0          21.0   36                14
2                   7.0           28.0   48               22
1998
1                   6.5          34.5   59                30
2                   6.5           41.0   70               42
1999
1                   6.0          47.0   80                54
2                   6.0           53.0   90               62
2000
1                   3.0          56.0   95                70
2                   2.9           58.9  100               78
Project Completion Date:       August 31, 1999
Project Closing Date:          February 29, 2000
La Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia (August 1993).



-57-                         ANNEX13
INDONESIA
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECD DOCumETS AND DATA IN PROJEcT FILES
A.    Selected Report and Studies Related to the Sector and Project
A.1 Private Provision and Public Autonomy in Indonesian Higher Education
Institutions in Indonesia, Estelle James, December 1992
A.2 Indonesia: Career Incentives for University Professors, David Steedman, July
1993
A.3 Science and Technology Indicators of Indonesia 1993, STAID, Agency for
the Assessment and Application of Technology, Ministry of Research and
Technology and Indonesian Institute of Sciences, 1993
A.4 Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience, the World Bank Best Practice
Paper, September 1993.
A.5 Indonesia: Higher Education Development Strategy, EA3PH, May 1993.
B.    Project Documents and Working Papers
B.1 Ministry of Education and Culture, "University Research for Graduate
Education Project," project proposal and implementation plan, April, 1994
B.2 Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
B.3 Detailed Cost Tables
B.4 University Research Council: Decrees
B.5 University Research Council: Policies and Operating Guidelines
B.6 Center Grant Program: Guideline for Proposal
B.7 Sample contract/agreement forms



UNIERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
OQrizatlonal Structmre of Directorate General of Higher Education
D| edor Genera of
Higher Education (DGHE)
[~~                                  _I   I
Direcraete of                    Dreteq                            Diretoatweof                     Direcoate of
Resear I Comnity                            OI                                                                
sewc  Devitp _meut                                                  Am_
Swto1 Rm1 DvdepEm                              -
S_"l                                                      Ct__-u.
_d$kMaq                            Li.dh, __ 
Zd_                                                                r_



- 59 -
1'' |  ''   I  ~i,'i,.i
I!     I      IXgI'1i



IBRO 25644
+-5HAILAND                                                                                                                                                  a'    '            t C         \D INDONESIA
~~oS,~oh ~~oO~0  5o~ti. Ch,n~~~, Se~                                                  <'~~      ~'           'd'                       UNIVERSITY  RESEARCH  FOR
',;     0,n8PHILIPPINES                               GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
BRUNE                                                                         UNIVERSmES WITH RESEARCH BASED GRADUATE PROGRAMS
DIRECTORAT GENIERAL OF HIGHER EDUCATIOW/
MA.LAYSIA                                                                                                                                                      UNaRSY RYSEARCH COUNCIL
~~~~~~~~~~ N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El    PUSUC UNIVWI1ES
7~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ s- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  PRivATE uNIVERvnsiE
<~ ~ 1                                                                           MAL %   >    i (   @ g IAYSIA                                                      (7\   <           L
%  05   SInielNGAPORE          (                                                                                                            RI    P ROVIg  ,  _   NCE5 CAPItAL
17                   MOOGdO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
Pokonboo  *~C                                                                                                                                             PROVNCE BOUNDARIES
0*  _  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLA  i9ooog                                                                                     INERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
U M  AT    RA                          9v00             14                 It                                                                L *W 
7nIo 9_cf        iS 6                                        /            5                                                                                                             2 =          NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
1 b  0<n4;u;\Cufi7                                                                                            ULAWES r ) 3   D Z1  >-  $  t  C     ti  ffi    <  0  T   m A N-T AIs
2 IAWA BARAT                   -       o
3 JAWATENGAN                7                                                                                                                        23I2                                                             IR   A   N
4 LI2IYOGYAKIARrA
5  SA1A TIM6UR                                         OTJG                                                                         21A
7 SENGAIWW 
'    8 EJMA   SEATAN                    ;                                                                                                                                                                                             26
9  RLAU                                                ljo ooe,              o,.IAolo14
I-l JAr                                          U- W  -              I-  17=       24
10 IttNNGAnMi                                I J l  INDIANo OCEN2 44o xond1 o                                                                                                                    A
11 SEAATERA BARAT                                                                  0000 P J0,.U~.S
12  SUMA2ERA LTAPA        U-,o~io Thol                                                                                                                                (0 
12  D.I.ACONT.
14  ITMJMANTAN4 MEAT  UJo-,to~ To~o~oonogo'o    ~ 02RI~                          LhUO. A,loo95Y
1s  KALIMANTAJ4 TENGAN                                                                                                                   F (.I,SooJ20l.o11-oo,y  10
16  I(AIjMWdTAN SOI.ATAN  UrWJylooy
1 7AMNA T8I                . LPFIMIOM -                                                                                                                                                                  o, 
19 SUILAWEI IJARA                                                                                                                                                    tz19"     
20 SULAWAESI SESIATAN                                                 (9Y9ool    11 IIs0
21  WILAWAESI TEN'OOWAE     .                ,s-o                                                                                                                                                  40     '       0       a      a
22  MAU                   d-o,iolo   o   o                                                                                                             0o
23  NUSA TENGC-AR,oBARAT       Mo,oo  ho                                                                                             24,                                                            *,                  -     r
24  NUSATENGGARAY1IMUR    Wopy    0~p0                          NOENSPoo                                                                                  IO                         oo              0         0*q
25 MAAJUIJ                                                INDIAN1  OCEAN                                                                                   27
26  IRIAEIJAYA            sf4.o   071000
27 11)681161R 0Toy oosMoo                                                                                                                  I2oo   IeDAt
MAY 1994



