Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23394-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37540; SCL-3754A; SCPD-3754S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 58.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH FOR GRADUATE EDUCATION PROJECT
December 31, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 1994)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million = US$ 475
US$ 1.00 = Rp. 2,105
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
FISCAL YEAR
April I  March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DCRG          Domestic Collaborative Research Grants
DGHE          Director General of Higher Education
DIP           Annual Development Budget
GOI           Government of Indonesia
GPA           Grade Point Average
IDR           Indonesian Rupiah
IRL           International Research Linkages
MOE           Ministry of Education and Culture
MONE          Ministry of National Education
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TG            Team Grants
TTL           Task Team Leader
URC           University Research Council
URGE          University Research for Graduate Education Project
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:  Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:  Maureen Law, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Halsey L.Beemer, Jr., EASHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
ID-UNIV RESEARCH FOR GRAD EDUC (URGE)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004017                                      Project Name: ID-UNIV RESEARCH FOR GRAD
EDUC (URGE)
Team Leader: Halsey L. Beemer                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ID-UNIV RESEARCH FOR GRAD EDUC (URGE) L/C/TF Number: CPL-37540;
SCL-3754A;
SCPD-3754S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: ET - Tertiary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/15/1992                             Effective: 10/24/1994         10/04/1994
Appraisal:  01/10/1994                               MTR: 10/27/1997            02/16/1998
Approval:  06/14/1994                              Closing: 02/29/2000         02/28/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/Ministry of National Education
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jermal-ud-din Kassum                      Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                               Himelda Martinez
Team Leader at ICR:  Halsey L. Beemer                          Sachi Takeda
ICR Primary Author:  Sandra F. Erb
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry. S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Timne: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. When the government initiated the University Research for Graduate Education Project (URGE)
project in 1994 the priority was, in the medium to long-term, to give greater financial autonomy to public
institutions, including decentralization of all staffing and promotion decisions to universities, and a
rationalized allocation mechanism for public subsidies for improving the efficiency and viability of public
investments. In response to the government's medium to long-term priorities the URGE project was
designed. The goal of the project was to improve the quality of graduate education in Indonesia and the
objectives were to: (a) increase competitive funding for domestic graduate education and university
research activities; (b) strengthen the procedures for selecting grant and fellowship proposals; (c) integrate
university research with graduate training in universities; (d) strengthen research capacity and
dissemination of research findings in universities; and (e) attract highly qualified candidates for domestic
graduate education.
These objectives reflected the priorities of higher education in Indonesia to give greater attention to the role
of incentives in guiding quality improvement, the use of competition to motivate institutions and staff, and
increase accountability to enhance performance. The objectives also fit squarely within Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which called for human resource development through a higher quality of
education services and to strengthen domestic educational capabilities to develop professional, managerial
and scientific human resources through quality improvement of higher education which was viewed as
critical for sustaining growth.
During the course of project implementation the Govemment of Indonesia (GOI) experienced (i) the East
Asia Financial Crisis and (ii) rapid decentralization of the delivery of all educational services and the initial
stages of the development of universities as autonomous legal units. Since the project design had taken
into consideration the eventuality of university autonomy the project objectives were completely
appropriate for the change in the political environment within Indonesia.
3.2 Revised Objective.
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: The loan contained a component to Improving Planning and Management.
Cost:         US$ 6.8 Million
This component was developed to improve planning and management capacity for graduate education and
university research by providing assistance to the University Research Council (URC) to carry out its
functions which were oversight and administration of the Project's competitive grant and fellowship
programs.
Component 2. The loan also contained competitive grants programs.
Cost: US$ 90.8 Million
This grant program was designed to support competitive grant and fellowship programs that would
strengthen incentives for institutions, university staff, and graduate students to participate in high quality
graduate training and research activities. The grant program was 94 percent of total project base costs and
supported the following: (i) center grant program; (ii) research grant programs; (iii) graduate education
programs (iv) scientific publication programs; (v) domestic collaborative research grants and (vi)
intemational research linkages.
-2 -



The design of both components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The loan focused on
the development of the URC to manage competitive research grant programs thereby strengthening
procedures for selecting grant and fellowship proposals as well as setting up an effective system for
monitoring and evaluating the progress of grant and fellowship activities. The project also supported
overseas degree programs for Ph.D. candidates to ensure capacity building for domestic graduate education
programs and formation of a critical mass of academic talent. The programs integrated the returning
fellows into university units as well as research activities to improve the quality of education and research.
The project drew on important lessons learned from four previous higher education projects which
indicated that there was a need to develop the domestic graduate education capacity, strengthen the
effectiveness of overseas fellowships, improve financial and professional incentives for staff, and move
from centralized planning and implementation to provide institutions with the capacity and opportunity to
prepare and implement development plans based on their specific needs.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                Cost                 Rating
Improving Planning and Management        $6,800,000.00          S
Competitive Grant and Fellowships        $90,800,000.00         S
New Activities within the second component that provided competitive grants.
The project was extended for one year until February 28, 2001 in order to implement two new activities:
the Domestic Collaborative Research Grants (DCRG) Programs and the International Research Linkages
(IRL). Both of these programs were designed to build on the strengthened university research foundation
which had been supported by the earlier years of the URGE project and provide financial support for
international links between the URGE supported centers and for Indonesian researchers to use the facilities
in the URGE-supported centers. The extension also allowed for the continuation and expansion of the
programs supporting researchers presenting their research results at international conferences.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on the strength of (i) consistency of objectives with the priorities
of the Ministry of National Education (MoNE) and the Director General of Higher Education (DGHE); (ii)
successful experience and lesson learned by the four previous Higher Education Project; (iii) demonstrated
capacity of the DGHE to implement previous projects and their own policy to improve the role of
incentives in guiding quality education; and (iv) project design that anticipated decentralization and
university autonomy by including block grants that gave budgets and implementation responsibility to
individual institutions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the URGE project were satisfactory. Before the
project, the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE) and the Director General of Higher
Education (DGHE) were under increasing pressure to be more responsive to the rapidly changing
research and graduate education goals put forward by the university community, and found that
their capacity to centrally plan this process was limited and by necessity unduly bureaucratic. The
URGE project supported a paradigm shift away from the central planning of establishing research
priorities and funding to a system which enhanced the responsibility and authority of individual
researchers. Only by moving away from the center to the individual institution level were these
changes possible.
-3 -



The Center Grant Programn, which focused on the creation of scientific research units lead by
younger Indonesian academics, provided a dynamic environment within which young graduate
students and researchers were able to carry on their work in Indonesia rather than going abroad.
This is in contrast to earlier Bank-support projects that depended almost exclusively on sending
young researchers abroad for study. The money used to prepare junior faculty from second and
third tier institutions for graduate education allow them more successfully compete for access to
complete programs at first tier institutions. As these junior faculty returned to their home
universities, it became apparent that this system of enhancing the academic quality of the home
institutions worked better than previous systems of trying to provide incentives to have graduates
of first tier institutions move to second and third tier institutions. In addition, small amounts of
funding available to researchers from outside project-supported research units to carry out
collaborative research with project-supported researchers expanded the impact of the project well
beyond its original institutions focus. The provision of these network-supporting funds used in
the Domestic Collaborative Research Grants (DCRG) program allowed for the increased
utilization by researchers throughout Indonesia of project-developed resources and research
programs.
The Graduate Team Research Program and the Young Academic Program were also able to
increase the research capacity of the graduate supervisors which in turn benefited the graduate
students as well as the graduate education programs of Indonesia institutions. The focus on
strengthening domestic institutions rather then sending researchers abroad created stronger and
potentially more sustainable domestic human capacity training.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Improved Planning and Management (US$ 6.8 SAR)
This component is rated satisfactory. One of the five specific Project objectives was to "strengthen
procedures for selecting grant and fellowship proposals". The URC achieved this objective through the
establishment of expert panels (commissions); developing clearly specified selection criteria related to the
objectives of each program; the use of expert reviewers (including foreign reviewers for the key research
programs); and procedures for handling conflicts of interest. The Council also set up an effective system
for monitoring and evaluating the progress of grant and fellowship activities. This system of grant
selection, monitoring, and evaluation, has been accepted by academic researchers and administrators and
has been used as a model for other funding programs. The system developed by the Council has also had a
profound effect on the culture of the universities and, in doing so, has contributed to the universities'
preparedness to give effect to the New Paradigm The essential idea of the new Paradigm is to contribute to
the objectives of equity, relevance and quality in a more decentralized manner by promoting more
autonomy with accountability. The main instruments are: (1) modifications in the way funds are allocated
to public universities and support is given to private universities; and (2) the introduction of an
accreditation system. The modifications are to shift from a system where virtually all funds are allocated in
a noncompetitive way with few performance standards to one where some non-negligible percentage of
funds are allocated through competitive mechanisms and performance based transfers. To take account of
the differing initial conditions of universities, extensive use is made of tiered competition. which balances
the move towards institutional autonomy with increased institutional accountability.
However, the wider responsibilities of administering all existing and new DGHE grant and fellowship
programs for graduate education and research and in providing policy advice to the DGHE on the
- 4 -



development of graduate education and research capacity were not fully realized. While individual
members of the Council, its Commissions and panels of reviewers, have been involved in DGHE programs,
the Council itself has not been formally involved. It has, however, been involved in the provision of policy
advice as one of the three Councils of the Board of Higher Education which was established inl996. The
URC Secretariat, which was established to support the activities of the Research Council, will continue but
the level of support will depend on the future activities or projects that the URC undertakes.
Competitive Grant and Fellowship Programs (US$ 90.8 million SAR) The overall rating of this
component is satisfactory. This grant program was designed to support competitive grant and fellowship
programs that would strengthen incentives for institutions, university staff, and graduate students to
participate in high quality graduate training and research activities. The grant program was 94 percent of
total project base costs and supported the following: (i) center grant program; (ii) research grant programs;
(iii) graduate education programs (iv) scientific publication programs; (v) domestic collaborative research
grants and (vi) international research linkages.
Center Grant Program. The Center Grant Program sub-component was highly successful in achieving
the objectives of improving the physical, managerial and human resource infrastructure and in integrating
high quality research with graduate education. The Center Grant Program is the largest of the competitive
grant and fellowship programs, comprising 40 percent of initially projected competitive program
expenditure. Centers, through the research of affiliated staff and Research Teams, have produced a high
level of research output including some patents and have formed many important links with other national
and international research groups and with industry and other users of research. They have been major
contributors to the increased research capacity of the university system. A measure of this increased
capacity is the ease with which centers were able to act as hosts for DCRGs. Centers have also been a
major contributor to graduate education through the support of masters and doctoral students being
involved in research carried out by researchers affiliated with the 31 centers. However, the project design
did not include quantitative data on the degree of integration between the Centers' research activities and
graduate education such as the number of journal articles jointly authored by staff and students which has
hindered a full evaluation of the Center Grant Program.
Research Grant Programs. The Research Grant Programs sub-component were successful. Research
support was provided to individuals and research teams through two programs - the Team Grant Program
for Graduate Research and the Young Academics Program. Teams from 13 universities received Team
Grants (TGs) while 39 institutions in 20 provinces were given Young Academics programs awards which
widened the institutional and geographic coverage. The output of research supported by TGs was
impressive and includes articles in international journals and papers presented at international conferences.
The TGs have also made a significant contribution to graduate education, providing the vehicle for training
masters students and doctoral. It is also interesting to note that, during the course of the Project, the
proportion of successful TG principal investigators who were women rose from seven percent to 15
percent. This is a substantial increase, although from a very small base and can be seen as a contribution
to the increase in research capacity of the system. Another important factor of the Young Academics
Program is that it provided seed money for young academics, many of whom had recently returned from
overseas fellowships supported by other projects that (I) helped them resettle into their institution; (2)
establish a research agenda and (3) played a significant role in providing incentives which kept talent at the
institutions which increased the pool of highly trained and motivated researchers in the university system.
The challenge now is to provide the resources to allow this greater pool of human resources to be utilized
for the benefit of the country. There is some evidence and concern that whereas the numerical targets in
this part of the project were either met or exceeded, the qualitative results may not have been as robust as
the numbers might indicate. Lessened value of grants may well have resulted in less work done and fewer
- 5 -



results.
Graduate Education Programs. The graduate education program sub-component is rated satisfactory.
The Graduate Education Program had three activities - the Merit Fellowship Program, the Pre-Graduate
Training Program, and the Sanrdwich Program. The Project targets for each program were met or
exceeded.
The Merit Fellowship program awarded a total of 1458 Merit Fellowships: 1370 S-2 (master degree)
students and 88 S-3 (Ph.D.) Students (SAR targets - 800 and 130 respectively). The shortfall in S-3
fellowships, although disappointing, may merely be a consequence of an overly ambitious SAR target,
given the very small number of students who had chosen in-country training before the Project began. The
objective of the Merit Fellowship Program was "to attract highly qualified and capable students into
domestic graduate education programs". This would be achieved by providing enhanced financial support
for the student. A measure of the success in achieving this objective is the Grade Point Average (GPA) of
students holding Merit Fellowships compared to the GPA for other students. Data show that, with only a
few exceptions, the average GPA for Merit Fellows is higher than that for other students. There is a
similar improvement in the time taken to complete the study program. These measures of overall, or
average, quality do not tell the whole story. Impressions gained during supervisions were that there were
some very bright and highly motivated Merit Fellows which enhanced tutorial discussions, challenged staff
to be better prepared and provided a source of students who often took a student leadership role in assisting
staff with laboratory exercises and helped lead tutorial groups.
An unintended outcome of the Merit Fellowship Program was the increased number of women awarded
grants through the program: 771 female S-2 fellows (56.3 percent) and 25 female S-3 fellows or 28.4
percent. Anecdotal evidence would indicate that because the program was domestic based, transparent and
based purely on merit many more women were able to obtain awards that enabled them to continue their
studies.
Pre-Graduate Training Program. The aim of this program was to prepare students for graduate study who
would otherwise not have sufficient background to be accepted into graduate programs. The program was
successful in bringing 584 of the 963 students taking pre-graduate training to a level acceptable for entry
into graduate programs. Unfortunately, the number of S-2 fellowships available was insufficient to allow
all of these students to undertake graduate training. However, the program did give many students the
opportunity to participate in top level university graduate education programs and then return to their
remote area home institutions where they were able to make a contribution to improving the quality of
education. As these junior faculty returned to their home universities, is became apparent that this system
of enhancing the academic quality of the home institutions worked better than previous systems of trying to
provide incentives to have graduates of first tier institutions to move to second and third tier institutions.
This program also provided the foundation for improved linkages between remote and urban universities as
well as collaborative research activities.
Graduate Education Program was aimed primarily at improving the quality of graduate education for a
small number of students rather than improving the quality of the intake (as was the case for the other two
Programs). The program also had the important secondary objective of strengthening the links between
Indonesian and overseas universities. No detailed assessment has been made of the impact of this program
on the quality of education for these students compared to that for students whose entire training was
conducted in-country. Regarding the secondary objective, it is likely that the contacts made by the
students, the vast majority of whom were staff members at their home institution, will contribute to
- 6 -



strengthening the links between Indonesian universities and foreign research organizations.
Scientific Publication Programs. The scientific publications programs sub-component is rated
satisfactory. The objective of this program was to improve the quality of the dissemination of the results of
university research through two components - the Scientific Journal Program, aimed at improving the
quality and standing of refereed national journals, and the Research Publication Program, aimed at
encouraging university researchers to submit articles for publication in refereed international journals.
Both programs slightly exceeded the SAR targets (Scientific Journal Program target 25- 26 supported;
Research Publication program target 350 - 358 supported). The Scientific Journal Program has
contributed to an improvement in the standing of some national journals as evidenced by an increase in the
proportion of articles submitted by researchers from universities other than the journal's home university
and by an increase in circulation. There is less clear evidence of a lasting impact of the research
Publication Program, although it is noteworthy that the DGHE has modified the criteria for promotion to
emphasize the importance of publishing in journals of the standing recognized by the Program.
Domestic Collaborative Research Grants (DCRG). The first objective was to extend Project funding to
researchers in institutions that had not received research funding in the earlier years of the Project,
particularly those institutions at a considerable distance from the nine cities where the majority of research
funding had been directed. DCRGs went to researchers in 29 institutions satisfying this criterion. The
second objective was to provide access to facilities and expertise developed under the Project to researchers
who had not previously been supported and to develop collaborative linkages between them and Centers
and Teams. Awards were made to 168 teams from 62 institutions. The two main objectives of the
program were both achieved. It should be noted that the level of interest in the DCRG activity was high
with 997 applicants for the 168 teams selected, a good indication of the competitiveness of the grant
program. For the grantees, the benefits of a DCRG included access to equipment and libraries requiring a
level of resources far greater than those available in the home institution, close contact with a (usually)
senior researcher with wide expertise and knowledge of the research field and relevant techniques, a period
of uninterrupted research, and the opportunity to be members of a large and active research team. All
grantees interviewed agreed that the level of funding was adequate. For the host Center or Graduate
Research Team the benefits included an opportunity to expand the scope of their research, in some cases to
re-establish links with former students, and to make small additions or upgrades to equipment. In most
cases there is a clear intention to continue the collaboration, of course, subject to the availability of funds.
In addition to these benefits, many of the projects have achieved significant research outcomes that will be
reported in journal articles and conferences. Many of these outcomes have relevance to local or regional
needs. At least two patent applications are likely to be filed. A further point worth noting is that the
program has extended funding to a significant number of women (who were somewhat under-represented in
the other research programs): in this program, 140 of the 316 researchers involved are women. The
program has also significantly extended the scope of Project research funding to private universities, which
received 36 of the 168 awards.
International Research Linkages (IRL). This program was a small, but nevertheless important,
component of the extension of the Project. From a total of 66 proposals, IRL grants were made to eight
Centers and one Team. This small number (less than the twelve awards originally envisaged) was all that
could be accommodated within the budget. The grants provided for three activities - extended periods of
stay at overseas institutions for one or two researchers, short visits overseas to discuss possible
collaborative research activities, and visits by foreign researchers to the grantee's institution. A detailed
assessment of the outcomes for two of the nine awards was made during a visit to the University of
Indonesia. In each case the outcome was very beneficial to the research group: jointly authored
publications will arise from research done during the extended stays; contacts made during these stays and
- 7 -



during the shorter visits overseas will almost certainly lead to ongoing collaboration; the visits to the
university by the foreign researchers further strengthened the potential for collaboration and, through
seminars and informal contacts, exposed students and staff to the knowledge and expertise of the foreign
researchers.
International Seminars/Conferences. A small amount of support for attendance at international
conferences had already been provided under the Project before the extension period. During the extension
phase, the size and scope of this component were increased: eligibility was extended to all university
researchers, not only those who were recipients of Project research funding, and funding was increased to
permit a total of 66 grants to be made. Of these, 41 were made to researchers who were not recipients of
Team Grants or grants to Young Academics. Again, the number of applicants for this activity, 165, is an
indication of the level of competitiveness in this scheme. Two important points emerged from this program:
first, for most researchers, attendance at the conference would not have been possible without the grant:
there are very few other sources of funds and most researchers cannot afford to pay the travel and
accommodation costs, and often very expensive registration fees, from their own pockets. Secondly, they
were often the only Indonesian researcher at the conference. This second point highlights the important
contribution such a relatively small program component can make since attendance at international
conferences not only provides an opportunity for the researcher's paper to be presented; it also provides an
invaluable insight into the latest developments in the field which the researcher can share with his/her
colleagues after returning home.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development imipact.
The URGE Project has had impact on three elements of the higher education system and its management.
First, the University Research Council has developed a capacity for program administration and policy
advice that will be of great value to the DGHE in addressing strategic issues for the further development of
university research and graduate education and in the administration of funding programs.
Secondly, the Project has contributed to significant changes within individual institutions. Some of these
changes are cultural in nature, others relate to management issues including processes for the allocation of
resources. The overall result is an improvement in the effectiveness and efficiency of the universities in
research and graduate education.
Thirdly, the Project has contributed significantly to the development of the university system as a whole in
two important respects. First, as has been referred to at several points in earlier sections, the Project has
substantially increased the research capacity of the system in both its human and its physical resources.
Secondly, it has strengthened linkages between universities and other research organizations within
Indonesia and internationally. Although not a primary objective of the Project, it has also contributed to a
strengthening of links between universities and industry.
Taken together, these three contributions have the potential to assist Indonesia in making more effective use
of its human and financial resources.
-8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Midway through the implementation of the project, the East Asian financial crisis struck Indonesia and had
a substantial impact on all services provided by the GOI as well as the economic environment within which
the project was being implemented. The government chose to focus scarce education resources on funding
the delivery of primary education services, especially in the rural poor areas. The job market for graduates
dried up and the ties with industry weakened as the needs for research and development were superseded by
those of financial viability. The purchasing power of URGE grants deteriorated as the exchange rate fell
and the dollar costs of spare parts for imported instrumentation and consumables - especially chemicals
and reagents - rose rapidly. Costs of the operation of equipment went up while the revenues generated by
the universities for services provided to industry fell.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Grants under the project were initially denominated in Rupiah (IDR) and the project implementation unit
was slow to implement a revision to dual currency contracts. Thus the amount of counterpart and loan
funds requested by the implementation unit for the annual development budget (DIP) represented a fixed
USD / IDR exchange rate. This compounded the impact of the economic crisis. In particular recipients of
center grants faced on-going USD commitments for equipment and their overseas fellowship program while
the purchasing power of their grants were drastically decreased. As a result contracts under the center grant
component were amended to provide additional funds and were extended by a year to address
implementation delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
The URGE Project Implementation Unit was to be responsible for: (i) disbursement of loan funds
following approval of specific research and graduate education; (ii) monitoring loan expenditures; (iii)
progress reports for the Bank; (iv) monitoring procurement activities; and (v) collecting data for monitoring
and evaluation. The PIU did efficient work in making sure that the researchers received their funds so that
their activities could be implemented without any delays. However, the project faced a deficit in the last
year due to an inaccurate calculation of outstanding project commitments when the loan cancellation
process took place. This necessitated the GOI providing funds from other sources to fulfill all contractual
obligations to study centers in order that the budget shortfalls would not negatively affect the
implementation of the project. This could have been avoided if the PIU had done a better job in monitoring
their expenditure records.
5.4 Costs and financinjg:
The project became effective October 4, 1994 and was costed at that time at US$58.9 million. During the
implementation of the project, two loan cancellations were made on December 1998 for USS 11.2 million
and December 1999 for US$ 9.4 million reducing the loan funds to US$ 38.3 million. These cancellations
were the result of substantial exchange rate savings which followed the economic crisis in Indonesia.
Although numerical SAR goals were reached in all categories even in the face of the loan cancellations,
questions have been raised by members of the URC as to whether or not the qualitative goals were met.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that with the exchange rate losses suffered by the counterpart Rupiah funds,
non-dollar denominated grants lost substantial value and even when increased during the life of the project,
were not at the levels originally anticipated and where therefore not able to provide for the same level of
research support originally envisioned in the project design.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospects for overall Project sustainability are mixed. The Project has had an impact on the research
culture within the Indonesia academic and research community. The role of a peer review system for
distribution of research funds through the DGHE seems to be well established and will continue to be used
as a mechanism to distribute research funding. The collaborative research activities have assisted in
connecting individual researchers and research teams within the domestic universities as well as the
international scientific comrnmunity. These connections seem to be well established and will continue well
after the close of the project. However, the overall levels of research funding have decreased over the life
of the project due to government decisions on overall education financing with the context of the East Asia
financial crisis and it will be difficult to sustain the research funding provided by the Project. This is
already showing in the Research Centers where there are limited resources available for Centers to
purchase spare parts to maintain equipment and consumables to conduct experiments. In addition, lack of
resources to continue overall research activities will slow collaborative work. This will certainly limit
expansion of collaborative work and may well reduce the progress made during the project thereby
diminishing the Project impact. It will be extremely important for the DGHE to develop a strategic plan to
make most effective use of the limited research funding in order to build on and sustain the progress made
during the life of the Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities have been institutionalized as a part of the higher education system and the
distribution mechanism for research funding within the Indonesian academic community. However, in
order to sustain the gains made during the period, the DGHE, along with other Indonesia research groups,
will need to develop an overall strategy. A framework for considering this role can be obtained by
considering university research from two dimensions. In the first dimension, university research is viewed
as an activity conducted in the institution. In the second dimension university research is viewed as an
activity conducted by an institution. (Details for the two dimensions can be found in the ICR
aide-memoire.) Regardless, of which dimension some issues need to be addressed in developing the
strategy. These include: (a) the need for balance between concentrating research activity in a small number
of institutions or distributing the activity more widely; (b) the desirability of strengthening links between
university and industry; (c) the desirability of encouraging and facilitating collaboration between all
performers of research; (d) the need for a well constructed, multi-channel system of govemment funding for
university research that recognizes the two dimensional nature of that research; and (e) such a
multi-channel system will also recognize the need for a mix of types of funding including open competition,
targeted, project support, support for infrastructure and block grants.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
The Bank, building on a substantial base of analytical work in Indonesia, experience with a number of
earlier higher education projects in this country and other experience in Bank-supported higher education
reform projects in other large East Asian countries notably China, worked with Indonesian academic
conunissions which had identified problems in their higher education system and been developing their own
ideas for overcoming these problems. This synergy between Bank best practice and intemational
experience, and the senior Indonesian academics analysis of the issues the sector faced allowed for the
development of the project's policy framework and guidelines for increasing competitive funding for
domestic graduate education and university research, strengthening procedures for selecting grant and
fellowship proposals, and integrating university research with graduate education.
- 1 0 -



7.2 Supervision.
Bank supervision in the early days of the project was able to maintain the originally envisioned schedule
although budgetary restrictions limited the composition of the supervision teams so that the participation of
education economists was less intensive than envisioned during preparation. However, the East Asian
financial crisis which had a substantial impact on Indonesia during the period 1997-98, had a equally
deleterious impact on the supervision of this project. On the instruction of the then Bank Sector Director
the task team with responsibility for the project was directed to focus on the social safety net issues of
poverty alleviation and the student scholarship program and day to day focus on the URGE project
suffered. This took place at the time of the Bank's own administrative decentralization and the Bank's own
lessened emphasis on higher education projects which left the task team and its leader in Indonesia without
adequate sectoral or managerial support or guidance when it came to issues such as policy dialogue with
the government. As a result of the redirection of the task team to deal with the crisis driven poverty safety
net issues, supervision of the project suffered for a period until the crisis had passed and the TTL could
reassume responsibilities for the project. However, in retrospect it would seem that policy and
implementation review mechanisms put into place before the financial crisis allowed for continued
implementation of the project at a reasonable pace and with fundamentally good results and so when the
Bank was able to reassume full scale supervision, supervision reports and aide-memoires indicated that the
project was on track and yielding good results.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
The Bank's overall performance is satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were fielded
with several members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision mission included a mix of required
expertise and local staff provide guidance on a regular basis. During the financial crisis period, the Bank
worked closely the DGHE, PIU and GOI to modify the loan so that the counterpart burden would not be so
great.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's overall performance in preparation of the project is assessed as satisfactory and the
performance of the Ministry of Education (MoE) in preparation is assessed as highly satisfactory. In
particular the MoE extended a high level of cooperation to the Bank and committed to a significant
paradigmn shift to establish a transparent competitive grant process with extensive conflict of interest
safeguards. Efforts to socialize the objectives and selection mechanisms of the project among the academic
community by the Ministry of Education were extensive. While representatives of all counterpart agencies
were actively involved and supportive in project preparation commitment by the Ministry of Finance to the
concept of "block grants" took longer to develop.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
Overall the government implementation performance is satisfactory. The reasons for this rating can be
found in Section 4. The projects objectives were achieved as well as the output indicators as stated in the
SAR. The project counterparts were highly committed to this project and were able to deliver the program
as originally designed as well as three additional activities.
7.6 implementingAgency:
Overall the implementing agency performance is satisfactory. The PIU did efficient work in making sure
that the researchers received their funds so that their activities could be implemented without any delays.
However, the project faced a deficit in the last year due to an inaccurate calculation of outstanding project
commitments when the loan cancellation process took place. This could have been avoided if the PIU had
done a better job in monitoring their expenditure records.



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory. The DGHE brought together some of the best academics in
to design and implement a peer view system for the distribution of research fund. They also formed a
project implementation unit that was able to ensure that research funding reached the individual research
units and researchers so that research activities would be implemented in a timely fashion. The URC
conducted regular reviews of project activities and provided ongoing advice for implementation. Financial
management is an area where there could have been additional oversight.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Putting resources in the hands in of directors at the individual research units increased efficiency,
creates greater diversification and breadth and enhanced disciplinary specialization and depth.
*   A peer review process can be developed and used which, in a transparent and consistent manner, can
review proposals and allocated funds in a way that is perceived by the academic community to be fair
and equitable.
*   Providing seed money for young scholars who received degrees abroad kept them in their institutions
engaged in research and teaching rather than losing them to the domestic consultants industry.
*   Small amounts of funds used to upgrade staff from remote institutions allows them to compete for
entry into more prestigious institutions and this is a more successful approach than offering incentives
to graduates from premier institutions.
*   Small amounts of funding available to researchers from outside project-supported research units to
carry out collaborative research with project-supported researchers expanded the impact of the project
well beyond its original institutions focus.. The provision of these network-supporting funds used in
the Domestic Collaborative Research Grants program allowed for the increased utilization by
researchers throughout Indonesia of project-developed resources and research programs.
*   Small amounts of funding for the development of nationally recognized, peer-reviewed scientific
journals, when coupled with increased recognition in their academic promotion process for publishing
in these journals, contributes to the sustainability of these journals. Investing in institutional journals
without either peer review or consistent contributions from outside the institution does not appear to
create journals of the greatest quality or sustainability.
*   Project management must be treated with the same level of seriousness and professional judgment as is
selection of research program directors. The proper selection and continuous training of project
management staff is of critical importance to running scientific research units and avoiding the type of
financial problem that developed at the end of the project. The professionalization of the role of
financial managers must be approached with the same level of importance as the training of first rate
scientific researchers.
*   Merit-based program which use transparent selection criteria and processes, expands the opportunity
for women to apply to and participate in university graduate research.
*   Investment in developing and expanding a domestic capacity to training doctoral students rather than
sending them aboard as in earlier Bank-supported projects, creates a more sustainable human capacity
development investment strategy.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As described in the Borrowers ICR, the URGE project impacted on the research culture of the academic
and research communities in two ways. Firstly, there was the introduction of block funding for research
and secondly there was the introduction of the peer review system for competitive research funding.
Research collaboration among domestic university as well as with the international scientific community
- 12 -



seemed to be well established and both the new research culture and the linkages will continue well after the
close of the project. The URGE project also promoted better dissemination of research results through
support of journal publications, participation in international seminars and incentives for journal article
publication, In general, the DGHE and the URC view project has having been beneficial for the higher
education system in Indonesia. The challenge for the DGHE and the URC will be to maintain the level of
research funding at project levels or even to increase the resources.
(b) Cofinanciers.
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
Not Applicable
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                ActuallLatest Estimate
1. Center Grant Program               Not Available
a. Full Time Staff-Male/Female                                            a. 255/657
b. Number of Graduate Students                                            b. 23441472
Involved in Center Research                                            c. 1461/90
Activities -- S2/S3                                                    d. 33
c. Number of Students Graduated from                                      e. 8901408
Centers -S2/S3                                                         f. 12371685
d. Patents
e. Number of Publications-National/intl.
f. Number of Presentations-National/intl.
2. Team Research Program
a.Number of Team Research Grant      a. 200                                a. 201
Proposals                                                               b. 333/128
b. Publications- NationalVlntemational                                     c. 375/204
c. Seminar Participation - National/Intl.
d. Number of Students involved in Team                                     d. 11491240=1389
Research Program - S21S3
3. Young Academics Program
a. Proposals/Awards                 a. 200                                a. 601/266
b. Graduates                                                              b. Domestic = 36
Domestic Universities                                                   Overseas = 230
Overseas Universities
4. Merit Fellowship Program-S2 Students
a. Average Trend of GPAs                                                  a. 3.58
Merit Fellowship Students                                                 3.39
Other Students in some universities                                    b 33
b. Average Length of Study Programs                                        .   .5
Merit Fellowship Students         c. 800130.0
Other Students                    c. 800/130
c. Merit Fellowships awarded- S21S3                                         622
Men                                                                       796
Women
5. Pre-Graduate Training Program
a. Number of Students in Program                                          a. 963
b. Number of Students Accepted in S2                                      b. 584
programs
6. Sandwich Program (S3 Students)
a. Number of Participants           a. 20                                 a. 65
7. Scientific Journal Support         25                                    26
NOTE: During project preparation , outcome indicators were developed. A baseline data activity was conducted but was not
able to collect baseline data for the outcome indicators as designed. There were some project targets listed in the SAR and
these have been provided. However, since most of the project components and activities involved the creation of new delivery
mechanisms related the to the New Paradigm there would be no available baseline data. Therefore, the final data reflects the
competitive nature of the project rather than the outcomes as measured by outcome indicators.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
Improving Planning and Management (URC)              5.80           4.50           77.6
Competative Grant and Fellowships Program
Center Grant Program                               35.10          24.80           70.6
Research Grant Program                             31.80          17.70           55.6
Graduate Education Programs                        17.40           9.30           53.4
Scientific Publication Programs                    2.00            0.40            20
Total Baseline Cost                                 92.10          56.70
Physical Contingencies                              0.30
Price Contingencies                                 5.20
Total Project Costs             97.60          56.70
Total Financing Required             97.60          56.70
During project implementation of the project, two loan cancellations were made on December 1998 for
US$11.2 million and December 1999 for US$9.4 million reducing the loan funds to US$ 38.3 million.
These cancellations were the result of substantial exchange rate savings which followed the economic crisis
in Indonesia.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB            NCB          Other        N.B.F.        Tolal Cost
1. Institutional Grants      0.00          0.00         43.30         0.00        43.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (30.30)       (0.00)       (30.30)
2. Research Grants            0.00         0.00         33.60         0.00        33.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (20.10)       (0.00)       (20.10)
3. Consultant Services        0.00         0.00          1.20         0.00         1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.20)       (0.00)       (1.20)
4. Fellowships and           0.00          0.00         14.50         0.00        14.50
Training                    (0.00)        (0.00)        (7.30)       (0.00)       (7.30)
5. Project Management         0.00         0.00          0.00         1.30         1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Incremental Recurrent      0.00         0.00          0.00         3.70         3.70
Costs                        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00          0.00        92.60         5.00         97.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (58.90)       (0.00)       (58.90)
- 15-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICR             NCB           Other'        N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Institutional Grants         0.00          O.Q0          27.6          0.00          27.6
(0.00)        (0.00)        (20.2)        (0.00)        (20.2)
2. Research Grants              0.00          0.00          17.7          0.00          18.7
(0.00)        (0.00)        (13.3)        (0.00)        (13.3)
3. Consultant Services          0.00          0.00          0.40          0.00           0.4
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.40)        (0.00)         (0.4)
4. Fellowships and Training     0.00          0.00           5.9          0.00           5.9
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4.4)         (0.00)        (4.4)
5. Project Management           0.00          0.00           0.0           4.5           4.5
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Incrementatl Recurrent       0.00          0.00           0.0           0.57         0.57
Costs                          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        0.00          0.00           56.7          0.00         56.7
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (38.3)
Figures in parenthesis are the arnounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2i Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenmment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component       |     Appraisal Estimate          ActuaULatest Estimate     P
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Insitutional Grants  30.30     13.00               20.20     7.39               66.7   56.8
a. Center Grants        25.60     11.00               17.10      6.70              66.8   60.9
b. Pre-Graduate Training  2.30     1.00                1.50      0.32              65.2   32.0
Grants
c. Sandwich Program      1.90      0.80                1.30      0.25              68.4   31.3
Grants
d. Scientific Journal    0.50      0.20               0.30       0.12              60.0   60.0
Grants
2. Research Grants      20.10     13.40               13.30      4.43              66.2   33.1
a. Team Research Grants  16.50    11.00               11.00      3.91              66.7   35.5
b. Young Academics       2.90     190                 1.80      0.44              62.1   23.2
Grants
c. Research Publication  0.70      0.50               0.50       0.08              71.4   16.0
Grants
3. Consultant Services   1.10      0.00               0.40       0.00              36.4   0.0
4. Fellowships & Training  7.20    7.20               4.40       1.54              61.1   21.4
5. Project Management    0.00      1.30               0.00       4.54              0.0   349.2
6. Incremental           0.00      3.70               0.00       0.57              0.0    15.4
Recurrent Costs
-16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
1/93-Pre                    4    1 Economist, I Science &          S             S
Identification                  Technology Specialist, 1 Higher
Education Specialist, I
Engineering & Research
Financing Specialist
9/93 Idendification         3    1 Economist, I S&T and Higher     S             S
Education Specialist, 1 Public
Sector Management Specialist
7/93 Preparation            4    1 Economist, I S&T and            S             S
Research Specialist, I S&T
Higher Education Specialist, I
Engineering & Research
Financing Specialist
11/93 -                     7    1 Economist, I Sr. Operations     S             S
Pre-Appraisal                    Officer, I Education Specialist, I
S&T and Higher Education
Specialist, 1 Engineering &
Research Specialist, I Program
Assistant, I Procurement
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
1/94                        5    1 Economist, I Sr.                S             S
Operations Officer, I S&T
Higher Education Specialist,
1 Engineering & Reasearch
Management Specialist, I
Operations Analyst
5/94                        8    1 Economist, I Sr. Counsel, I Sr.  S            S
Operations Officer, I Operations
Analyst, I Higher Education &
Technology Specialist, I Sr.
Disbursement, I Disbursement
Analyst, 1 Engineering &
Resesearch Management
Specialist
Supervision
11/94 Project               4    1 Economist, I Operations         S            HS
Launch                           Analyst, I Disbursement
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist
5/95                         4   1 Economist, I Operations         S            HS
Officer, I Research Funding
Specialist, I Higher Education &
Research Funding Specialist
- 18-



ICR
3/01                         3    1 Lead Education Specialist,       S             S
I University Research
Specialist, I Operations
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               80.0                        450.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    25.0                        100.0
Supervision                              135.5                      $370.0
ICR                                        8.0                        30.0
Total                                   248.5                        950.0
These figures are estimates based on the project preparation file information, supervision aide-memoires,
590 forms and staff and salary information that is available.
- 19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H   * SU O M   O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
Li Physical                             O H  * SU O M    O N  O NA
OL Financial                            O H   * SU O M   O N  O NA
O Institutional Development             0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                        O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
OI Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Other (Please specify)          0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
El Private sector development           0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management             0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
a Lending                                            OHS OS       Ou    O HU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS        O U   O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS * S      O U   O HU
Ol Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * S     0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Borrower Project Implementation Completion Report including full Annexes
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
- 22 -



