Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3754 IND
                              Loan Agreement
           (University Research for Graduate Education Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 25, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3754 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
    "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a) "DGHE" means the Directorate General of Higher Education in the
Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture;
    (b) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing April 1
and ending March 31;
    (c) "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower
in part out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Grantee for a Sub-project;
    (d) "Grantee" means an individual, a group of individuals, a university
or a unit thereof, to whom or to which the Borrower proposes to make or has
made a Grant;
    (e) "S1 level" degree means the first academic degree given by a higher
education institution in Indonesia after at least eight semesters of study
beyond high school;
    (f) "S2 level" degree means the academic degree given by a higher
education institution in Indonesia after at least four semesters of study
beyond the S1 level degree;
    (g) "S3 level" degree means a doctorate level degree;
    (h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement;
    (i) "Sub-project" means a specific research, education or technical
support project to be carried out by a Grantee under Part B of the Project;
and
    (j) "URC" means the University Research Council established in the
Borrower's Ministry of Education and Culture in accordance with the Minister
of Education and Culture's Decree No. 096/U/1994 dated April 22, 1994.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies
that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty eight
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($58,900,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in United States dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 29, 2000, or such later
Page  3
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c) For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
          (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  4
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through DGHE with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
          (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
Page  5
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 2458
          Jakarta 10710, Indonesia
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN-IA
                Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       By  /s/  Arigfin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                       By  /s/  Marianne Haug
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
          Category                Equivalent)         Financed
(1)       Grants under:                             70% of
                                                    Grant
          (a) Part B.1 of           25,600,000      amount
              the Project
          (b) Part B.3 (b)           2,300,000
              of the Project
          (c) Part B.3 (c)           1,900,000
              of the Project
          (d) Part B.4 (a)             500,000
              of the Project
(2)       Grants under:                             60% of
                                                    Grant
          (a) Part B.2 (a)          16,500,000      amount
              of the Project
          (b) Part B.2 (b)           2,900,000
              of the Project
          (c) Part B.4 (b)             700,000
          of the Project
(3)       Fellowships and            7,200,000      50%
          Training
(4)       Consultants'               1,100,000      100%
          Services
(5)       Unallocated                  200,000
                                    __________
          TOTAL                     58,900,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under Grants,
fellowships, training, contracts for the employment of consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and contracts for the employment of
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000, under such terms and
Page  7
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of graduate
education and of university research in Indonesia.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Improving Planning and Management
1.  Strengthening the capacity of the University Research Council to
administer competitive grant and fellowship programs, through provision of
technical assistance and overseas training for the staff of the University
Research Council.
2.  Provision of training to editors to improve the quality of their
scientific writing and editing.
3.  Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of technical
audits of the activities under Part B of the Project.
PART B: Competitive Grant and Fellowship Programs
    Provision of grants and fellowships for research, education and
technical support projects in the fields of basic sciences, engineering,
agriculture, health, social sciences, education and humanities as follows:
1.  Center Grant Program
    Provision of grants to about 30 university units with integrated
research and graduate education programs, for overseas fellowships, cost of
visiting scholars from overseas, full-time research administrators and
support staff, acquisition of scientific journals and books, and acquisition
of equipment and consumables.
2.  Research Grant Programs
    (a)   Team Grant Program for Graduate Research
          Provision of about 160 grants to research teams that promote high
quality research activities, integrate graduate students as part of the
research team, and encourage collaboration with the international scientific
community, for cost of visiting scholars, full-time researchers, research
assistantship, post-doctoral fellowships, related research costs, and
acquisition of research equipment and consumables.
    (b)   Young Academics Program
          Provision of about 200 grants to university teaching staff having
recently graduated from doctoral programs for cost of full-time researchers,
related research costs, and acquisition of research equipment and
consumables.
3.  Graduate Education Programs
    (a)   In-Country Merit Fellowships
          Provision of about 800 S2 level fellowships and about 130 S3 level
fellowships to S1 and S2 graduates, including about 420 S2 level and about
70 S3 level fellowships to recent S1 and S2 graduates.
    (b)   In-Country Pre-Graduate Training Program
          Provision of about five grants to graduate schools for the
establishment of one-year training programs for prospective graduate
students to improve the quality of such students.
Page  8
    (c)   Program with Foreign Institutions Linkages
          Provision of about 20 grants to graduate schools having agreements
with foreign institutions for partial S3 training overseas, including cost
of overseas fellowships, visiting scholars and related travel costs.
4.  Scientific Publication Programs
    (a)   Provision of about 25 grants to universities and professional
societies for editorial assistance and publication of academic journals.
    (b)   Provision of about 350 grants to researchers for the preparation
and publication of articles in scientific and technical international
journals.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 2000                               1,115,000
July 15, 2000                                  1,155,000
January 15, 2001                               1,200,000
July 15, 2001                                  1,240,000
January 15, 2002                               1,285,000
July 15, 2002                                  1,335,000
January 15, 2003                               1,380,000
July 15, 2003                                  1,435,000
January 15, 2004                               1,485,000
July 15, 2004                                  1,540,000
January 15, 2005                               1,595,000
July 15, 2005                                  1,655,000
January 15, 2006                               1,715,000
July 15, 2006                                  1,775,000
January 15, 2007                               1,840,000
July 15, 2007                                  1,905,000
January 15, 2008                               1,975,000
July 15, 2008                                  2,045,000
January 15, 2009                               2,120,000
July 15, 2009                                  2,200,000
January 15, 2010                               2,280,000
July 15, 2010                                  2,360,000
January 15, 2011                               2,450,000
July 15, 2011                                  2,535,000
January 15, 2012                               2,630,000
July 15, 2012                                  2,725,000
January 15, 2013                               2,825,000
July 15, 2013                                  2,925,000
January 15, 2014                               3,030,000
July 15, 2014                                  3,145,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment             Premium
Page  9
                                   The interest rate
                                   (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not               0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall cause the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank to be used, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
cause to be used bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or group of items of specialized equipment for which there are
Page  10
only a limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55,
2.56 thereof).
2.  Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.  Standardized equipment and spare parts, and proprietary goods, may be
procured under contracts awarded after direct negotiations with the
suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Part A of this Section, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to
consultants: (A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
Page  11
amendments to contracts for the employment of individuals raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall maintain the Secretariat of the URC and the Project
implementation unit, within DGHE, in accordance with terms of reference,
staffing and other resources, acceptable to the Bank.
2.  The Borrower shall ensure that URC's activities shall be carried out in
accordance with policies and operating guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
3.  In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)    not later than June 1, 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank for
comments, the terms of reference and proposed organizational arrangements
for the carrying out of technical audits under Part B of the Project;
    (b)   cause technical audits to be carried out annually, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank, during the implementation of the Project, commencing
not later than April 1, 1996; and
    (c)   annually, commencing not later than October 1, 1996, furnish to
the Bank for comments a copy of such audit.
4.  The Borrower shall make Grants in accordance with the procedures and on
the conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
5.  Without limitation upon Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than March 31, 1998, carry out a review of the
implementation of the Project in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish the recommendations of such review to
the Bank for comments; and
    (b)   promptly thereafter carry out the recommendations of the review
taking into account the comments of the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                   Procedures and Conditions for Grants
                        under Part B of the Project
1.  Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:
    (a)   to a Grantee who or which shall have established, to the
satisfaction of the Borrower, acting through URC, on the basis of criteria
and procedures, acceptable to the Bank, that said Grantee: (i) (A) in the
case of an individual Grantee, has the qualifications and experience
necessary for the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project, and (B) in all
other cases, has the organization, management, staffing and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of the Sub-project; and (ii) has
prepared an acceptable plan, including terms of reference, for the carrying
out of the Sub-project; and
    (b)   for a Sub-project which is determined by the Borrower, acting
through URC, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank: (i) to be
technically feasible and cost-effective, and (ii) to have been designed in
accordance with appropriate educational standards.
2.  Grants, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, shall be made on
terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, through a single written agreement
with each of the Grantees, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank, including the right, as applicable, to:
    (a)   require the Grantee to carry out the Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial, educational
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
Page  12
    (b)   require that (i) the goods and services required for the Sub-
project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) such
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project,
and (iii) such goods shall be used primarily in the carrying out of the Sub-
project;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and any relevant records and documents;
    (d)   require that the Grantee shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance to cover the hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods required for the Sub-
project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Grantee to replace or repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be
derived from the Sub-project; and
    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such grantee to perform its obligations
under its agreement with the Borrower providing for the Grant.
3.  Grants for the Sub-projects listed below shall be made by the Borrower
only if the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of the Bank's approval of
said Sub-project.
    (a)   Sub-projects under Part B.1, B.3(b), B.3(c), and B.4(a) of the
Project, approved by the Borrower as a result of the first program
advertisement under the Project;
    (b)   the five highest ranked and the five lowest ranked Sub-projects
under Part B.2(a) of the Project, approved by the Borrower as a result of
the first program advertisement under the Project;
    (c)   Sub-projects which include proposed procurement of goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more;
    (d)   Sub-projects under Part B.1, B.3(b), B.3(c) and B.4(a), estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $2,000,000 each; and
    (e)   Sub-projects under Part B.2(a), B.2(b) and B.4(b) estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 each.
4.  When presenting a Sub-project to the Bank for review, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a draft grant agreement, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with a description of the Sub-project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.  The Borrower shall ensure that all university staff assigned to work on
any Sub-project shall be paid, for such work, remuneration at levels at
least equal to the levels applicable to the employment of local consultants
as set forth in the applicable decree on the procedures for the employment
and remuneration of consultants of the Borrower's National Development
Planning Agency (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional).
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
Page  13
    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
Page  14
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
