Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.13919
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2554-TUN)
JANUARY 26, 1995
Industry and Energy Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



List of Abbreviations
API                Agence de Promotion des Investissements
BDET               Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BTEI               Banque de Tunisie et des Emirates d'Investissements
BTKD               Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement
CETIME             Centre Technique des Industries Mecaniques et Electriques
EMI                Electro-Mechanical Industries
ERPR               Economic Rate of Return
FRR                Financial Rate of Return
INNORPI            Institut National de la Normalisation et de la Propriete
Industrielle
MEN                Ministere de l'Economie Nationale
SSI                Small-scale Industries
STUSID             Societe Tuniso-S6oudienne d'Investissements et de
D6veloppement
Currency Equivalent
At    Project Appraisal (1984)
TD .83 = US$ 1
March 1994
TD 1 = US$ 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Second Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project (Loan 2554-TUN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Second Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Project (Loan 2554-TUN). Part II was prepared by only one of the three participating
development banks.
Following the first Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project (Loan 2113-TUN), the project,
as approved in 1982, consisted of two components: (i) a line of credit to provide resources to the private
sector for investment projects in the subsector; and (ii) funds for technical assistance and equipment to
two government agencies, Centre Technique des Industries Mecaniques et Electriques (CETIME) and
Institut National de la Normalization et de la Propriete Industrielle (INNORPI).
In 1988, 43 percent of the $50 million in the line of credit component was cancelled because
of low demand. A study carried out after the cancellations concluded that, in addition to the general
decline in the investment climate, the collapse of the automotive subsector and the increasingly more
favorable opportunities in tourism were important factors in explaining the dearth of demand for private
investment in the electrical and mechanical industries. At closing, in June 1993, only one-third of the
original line  of credit had  been  utilized.    The  two  technical  agencies-CETIME  and
INNORPI-successfully utilized their allocations and enhanced their services to the industry, notably
to firms in the electromechanical subsector.
Bank supervision did not effectively pursue the covenant that required monitoring of the prices
of products manufactured by the subproject borrowers. This was an important issue because, under one
of the loan covenants, quantitative restrictions (QRs) were accepted provided that enterprises maintained
selling prices determined on the basis of international reference prices.
The outcome of the project was marginally satisfactory: the majority of subprojects financed
are expected to have satisfactory financial results. However, given the arrears experienced by the
participating development banks, its sustainability is rated as uncertain. The project, however, had
substantial institutional development impact.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2554-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . .
PART I: REPORT OF THE BANK
1.  Project Identity  .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
2. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
3. Objectives and Description .1
4. Project Design and Preparation.                                                 2
S. Project Implementation.                                                         4
6. Project Results.                                                                7
7. Performance of the Borrower.                                                    8
8.  Performance of the Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
9.  Project Sustainability  ......................   .  10
10. Lessons Learned.   .......................                                    10
PART II: REPORT OF THE BORROWER
Report of STUSID  . . . . . . . . . .                                        * .   12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans .29
2.  Project Timetable ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
3.  Cumulative Loan Disbursements ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  30
4.  Selected Project Implementation Indicators  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
5.  Project Costs and Financing ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
6.  Project Results ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  33
7.  Status of Project Covenants ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
8.  Use of Bank Resources ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  41
9.  Use of Staff Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
10. List of Subprojects and their Investment Costs  . . . . . . . . . . .  43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2554-TUN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Electrical and
Mechanical Industries Project in Tunisia, for which Loan No. 2554-TUN in the
amount of $54.0 million was approved on May 23, 1985. In 1988 the Bank cancelled
a large portion of the loan amount, at the Government of Tunisia's request. When
the loan closed on June 30, 1993, only 39% of the original loan amount was
disbursed, and the remainder was cancelled.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Maghreb and
Iran Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III). The Bank
sent the borrower and the participating development banks Parts I and III, with
the request to prepare Part II, but only one of the three development banks
responded.
3.    Preparation of this PCR was started in November of 1993 and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal and President's Reports, the Loan and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank, the borrower
and the participating development institutions, and internal Bank memoranda and
reports.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2554-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(i)   obiectives and Design.  The project was to provide resources for
investment projects in electrical and mechanical Industries to the private
sector and funds for technical assistance and equipment to two government
agencies, Centre Technique and des Industries Mechanique et Electrique
(CETIME) and Institut National de la Normalisation et de la Propriete
Industrielle (INNORPI), which provided technical assistance and set standards
for the sector. Additionally, the Bank sought to assist Government in its
review and rationalization of tariffs and quota restrictions (QRs) for
electrical and mechanical industries and to encourage the efficient
development of the sub-sector. The Government on-lent the funds through three
DFIs which had been fully appraised and which were participants in another
line of credit that had been recently approved by the bank. Two of the three
DFIs, Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD) and the Soci6t6
Tuniso-S6oudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement (STUSID) had been in
operations for only 3 years. The Banque de Developpement de Tunisie (BDET), on
the other hand, had been a participant in several credit lines, including the
first Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project (Loan 2113-TUN) which was
approved in 1982.
(ii)  Implementation Experiance and Issues.  Negotiations, Board Approval, and
signing were basically within schedule. Effectiveness was delayed by 7 months,
however, as a result of delays in approval in the loan documents by
Parliament. Economic factors caused a two-year slippage in closing.
Appraisal estimates of commitments and disbursements were also optimistic and
relied heavily on projected pipelines of the financial institutions and the
experience of the first Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project, which
was a significantly smaller loan. As a result of the low utilization of
funds, one and a half years after effectiveness the Bank cancelled, 43% of the
loan amount allocated to the three development banks. In addition, to increase
utilization of the funds the Bank extended the deadline for commitments and
for closing by one year.
(iii) Results and Sustainability    The project succeeded in ensuring
resources to the sub-sector through a number of development banks thus
introducing some competition in the retailing of loans. Demand for financing
though was significantly less than anticipated by the Bank. In addition,
arrears affected a high percentage of the portfolio of the DFIs and also
credits to the sub-sector, which raises concerns about the ability of the DFIs
to intermediate funds efficiently and leaves questions about the policy to
encourage development of electrical and mechanical industries through the
targeted credits to DFIs. As for CETIME and INNORPI, the two institutions
created to develop the sector, both institutions extended more services,
though INNORPI was slow in introducing product certification.



iv
(iv)  Performance.         Institution building of the development banks was
effective in improving supervision procedures of two DFIs. Supervision
missions by the Bank, though, were irregular and too short given that missions
usually supervised several credit lines at once. Consequently, missions
focused more on the financial situation of the Banks than the particular
problems in the electrical and mechanical industries sector. No supervision
missions addressed compliance with the important loan covenant concerning
subsector protection, which required monitoring the sub-projects pricing
practices which were to be based on international reference prices. In
general, the Bank was receptive to Government requests from identification
through implementation. Bank efforts to have Government reduce its arrears
with BDET, were not successful. However, Government reached a reasonable
agreement with BDET to compensate it fully for interest charges it incurs, as
a result of borrowing in the money markets, to cover its liquidity gap. In
addition, in compliance with covenants, the Government completed a foreign
exchange risk study which was instrumental in defining a new foreign exchange
risk coverage scheme.
(v)   Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Projects.    Credit line
operations should be open for all private sector investments, unless a
targeted line can be fully justified; as a result of the narrow scope of the
credit line component, the resources were not fully used. Furthermore, for
credit line operations in which the Government bears the foreign exchange
risk, the design of foreign exchange risk schemes should be an integral part
of the design of credit line operations, and such schemes should compensate
Government for bearing the foreign exchange risk. Bank management should also
ensure adequate and regular supervision missions and staff should be
responsible for properly maintained files, timely review of sub-projects, and,
most importantly, verification of compliance with all covenants.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(LOAN 2554-TUN)
PART I: REPORT OF THE BANK
1.  Project Identity
Country           Tunisia
Project Name  IF Second Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project
Loan Number       2554-TUN
Project Code      5TUNPA071
Regional Vice    Middle East and North Africa
Presidency
Supervising       Industry and Energy (MN1IE)
Division
2. Background
2.1   During the 1970's and early 1980's with a shift toward mnore liberal
economic policies, manufacturing industries became one of the main sources of
economic growth in Tunisia. Throughout this period, growth in manufacturing
industry, at an average rate of 11% in real terms, outstripped GDP growth.
Despite this achievement, the share of manufacturing in GDP was only 14% by
1984, leaving ample room for additional expansion.
2.2   Through the sixth five year plan (1982-1986), Government promoted
greater development of the industrial base to support the creation of jobs and
to improve the deficit of the current account. As petroleum exports were
expected to decline, Tunisia faced a deteriorating financial and balance of
payments situation. In response, the five-year plan's emphasis on export
industries as well as selected industries, which would reduce the countries
dependence on imports, seemed logical. Among the selected industries to be
promoted were electrical and mechanical industries, which demonstrated
significant opportunities for both import-substitution and exports, as well as
job creation, according to a Bank study undertaken at Government request.
3. Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1   Obiectives.  The objectives of the project were twofold.  The first was
to promote the development of electrical and mechanical industries by
financing, through three development banks, the establishment, expansion and
modernization of industrial enterprises engaged in exports. The second
objective was to enhance and expand services provided by two institutional



2
agencies which were created to foster the efficient development the EMI
sector.
3.2   Description of Loan Component to Fund Private Sector Investments . The
project consisted of a USS 54 million loan to the Government, of which USS 50
million was to be on-lent to the development banks for the purpose of
developing the private sector. Government passed on USS 20 million to Banque
de Developpement de Tunisie (BDET), and US$ 15 million to each the Banque
Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD) and the Societ6 Tuniso-S6oudienne
d'Investissement et de Developpement (STUSID) to cover part of their resource
needs, for the financing of eligible electrical and mechanical industries
subprojects. The foreign exchange costs of goods, works and services of
subprojects, which was estimated to be about 55% of total costs, was to be
financed by the proceeds from the Bank loan. Electrical and mechanical
industries subprojects eligible for financing covered (a) investments in one
of the priority sub-sectors and (b) investments in the non-priority sub-
sectors provided that a satisfactory level of exports were to be produced as a
result of the project. For subprojects in the non-priority sectors, the
requirement to export was identical to that of the Export Industries Project
(a minimum of 30% of productions for greenfield project and for extension
projects a minimum of 50% of the additional production).
3.3   Interest rates on sub-loans were to be no less than 12%, thereby
ensuring that the banks initially would have a positive income spread for each
sub-project. Government was to on-lend the proceeds of the loan to the
development banks, in local currency, at an interest rate equal to the
prevailing Bank interest rate, and Government was to bear the foreign exchange
risk. The project set limits on the maximum size of subloans in order to
discourage the use of the loan proceeds for a large number of projects: USS 2
million, if the project was to be financed by only one development bank and
USS 4 million, if the project was to be financed by more than one
participating financial institution.
3.4   Description of Grants to be Provided to CETIME and INNORPI.  The
Government was to also make available on a grant basis USS 4 million to Centre
Technique des Industries Mecaniques et Electriques (CETIME) and Institut
National de la Normalisation et de la Propriete Industrielle (INNORPI). The
funds were for the purchase of technical assistance and equipment. CETIME was
to open a Mechanics laboratory and a small Electronics division, expand
services of its Foundries Section, and continue to hire foreign experts to
further develop its program of technical assistance to firms in the EMI
sector. INNORPI was to open a laboratory, to test EMI products, and to hire
foreign experts, for the purpose of producing standards and delivering
certifications for products that met its standards.
4. Project Design and Preparation
4.1   Participation of Three Development Banks.  The structure of the project
differed from other previous lines of credit in which just one financial
institution channeled Bank funds. In addition to BDET, two relatively new
development banks, BTKD and STUSID, were chosen by the Bank to participate in
the project. Previously BDET was the single financial intermediary in nine



3
industrial investment projects, including the first Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Project. Project Completion Reports for many of the Bank loans had
noted considerable improvement in institution-building and management
performance, and BDET's participation in this project was to ensure continued
support by the Bank. Government and the Bank also believed that similarly the
Bank would contribute to important institution-building in the new banks by
providing them with a framework for establishing investment project appraisal
and supervision standards. Both STUSID and BTKD were extremely well
capitalized. Their respective capital bases were double BDET's and the banks'
debt to equity ratios were less than one to one.
4.2   Institution Building and Technical Assistance Component to CETIME and
INNORPI. In the course of a Bank review of the EMI sector in 1979-80, there
proved to be a need for an institution that could provide technical assistance
to firms. In response to the study's findings, the Government created CETIME
as a part of the first Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project financed
by the Bank. CETIME was established to provide three types of support services
to EMI enterprises: i) in-plant guidance and trouble shooting, ii) assistance
in rationalizing product mix and selection of technology and iii) on-the-job
training of technicians. The Center's performance under the first project was
very satisfactory, so inclusion in the second EMI project was a logical step
to further the development of CETIME services. INNORPI also was created at the
beginning of the decade, and it also participated under the first Electrical
and Mechanical Industries Project. Under the first project, INNORPI obtained
technical support of three foreign experts for 26 man-months, including one
expert who advised Government on the orientation and priorities of the
institute. By the time of preparation of the second project, the institute
had produced already 800 standards. Inclusion in the second project was thus
another logical step in Bank support of the EMI sector, for additional funds
would enable the Institute to produce certifications based on its own
standards.
4.3   Major Issues: Reduction of ORs.  One of the two major issues in project
preparation was the use of quota restrictions by the Government to protect
Tunisian EMIs. At various stages of the review process, staff and management
repeatedly addressed the issue and diBcussed the impact of import licensing on
the development of the sector and the sub-projects. Under the project, sub-
projects producing old EMI goods would continue to benefit from the protection
afforded them through QRs, while only new EMI goods (produced for the first
time in Tunisia) would not benefit from protection of QRs. QRs were to be
accepted provided that enterprises could maintain selling prices determined on
the basis of international reference prices. If sub-projects could not
maintain these prices, Government would gradually reduce the QRs. This
understanding concerning protection essentially mirrored agreements reached in
the first Electrical and Mechanical Industries project. But even though the
Bank agreed just two years earlier to these terms of eligibility for sub-
projects, a number of Bank staff members expressed concerns that it would be
difficult for Government to determine appropriate international reference
prices, monitor the industries, and thereby ensure the efficient development
of the sector. Elimination of the QRs was considered necessary, by many staff
members, as a necessary prerequisite for success of the project. In the end,
management decided that the issue of QRs would be tackled best by a broader



4
approach in the context of an adjustment loan, rather than sector by sector.
Under the Industrial Trade and Policy Adjustment Loan, which was approved in
1987, the Bank and Government agreed to eliminate QRs by 1991. The removal of
quota restrictions, though, remained an issue at project completion and
further elimination of QRs is being undertaken under the Economic and
Financial Reform Support Loan.
4.4   Major Issues: BDET's Financial Situation.  Bank management also raised
concerns related to BDET's financial situation. The two immediate concerns
about BDET's financial situation were (i) its substantial arrears on its
project portfolio and (ii) the large amounts the Government owed to BDET as
compensation for foreign exchange losses on foreign borrowings. Although the
Bank found the arrears situation generally acceptable, given the general
slowdown in the economy, it noted the need to monitor the arrears situation
closely. BDET's arrears amounted to about TD 16 million or about 8% of its
loan portfolio. Since almost half of the arrears were in 22 companies, the
Bank requested that BDET design individual action plans for resolving arrears
and closely monitor the companies. The Bank, during negotiations, agreed with
BDET that it would keep the Bank abreast its progress, and BDET agreed to
reduce arrears to less than 5% of its portfolio by 1986.
4.5   That Government had not compensated BDET for DT 16 million in foreign
exchange losses on external borrowings for the years 1983 and 1984 was an
additional concern of the Bank. An agreement was to be reached under the
Export Industries Project, which was to be negotiated a few months prior to
negotiations of the project. Senior management suggested that Board
presentation be conditional on payment of DT 10.5 million, which had been
already been earmarked in the budget for such purposes, and that if this was
not possible, the payment of DT 10.5 million should be made in 1985. The later
was agreed to, but not put in place as a condition of effectiveness, since it
was anticipated that effectiveness could take place as early as November.
Additionally, management agreed that a foreign exchange risk study should be
undertaken, by March of 1986, which could be used to define a new scheme to
assist Government in managing its foreign exchange risk.
5. Project Implementation
5.1   Implementation Schedule. Negotiations, Board Approval and Signing were
within schedule. However, loan effectiveness, which was supposed to take
place on November 11, 1985, was delayed by seven months. The Bank ultimately
extended the date of effectiveness three times as a result of delays in
approval of legal documents by the National Assembly. The signing of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and each participating bank
was the only additional condition of effectiveness.
5.2   Commitments and Disbursements.  Out of an original loan amount of US$ 54
million, USS 23 million was committed and USS 21.1 million was disbursed.
Commitments and disbursements for the two agencies, CETIME and INNORPI, were
generally on schedule. However, only 39% of the proceeds of the Bank loan for
investments were committed and 33% were disbursed, after several cancellations
of subprojects. Relative to their allocations, all three banks experienced
difficulties in lending under the project. BDET committed and disbursed 37% of



5
the original amount of its allocation, and BTKD and STUSID disbursed a
slightly lower proportion of their original allocation, 30% and 32%
respectively. Original allocations and actual disbursed amounts are shown
below.
Table 1
Use of the Loan Proceeds by DFIs and Agencies
(USS million)
PDB's and           Original           Revised               Actual
Agencies           Allocation         Allocation         Disbursements
BDET                  20.0               8.5                   7.3
BTKD                  15.0              10.0                   4.5
STUSID                15.0              10.0                   4.8
CETIME                 2.0               2.0                   2.6
INNORPI                2.0               2.0                   1.9
TOTAL                 54.0              32.5                  21.1
5.3   Cancellation of 43% of Loan Amount Allocated to Develonment Banks.  As
early as late 1987, the supervision mission discussed with Government partial
cancellation of the credit line, less than a year and a half after
effectiveness. In the Spring of 1988, after receiving an official request from
Government, USS 21.5 million of the USS 50 million allocated to the
development banks was cancelled, as shown above. Subsequently in 1989 and
1991, BTKD and STUSID requested additional cancellations, as sub-projects were
cancelled and demand for financing in the private sector failed to increase.
To permit greater use of the funds, the deadlines for commitments and closing
were also extended, at the time of the first cancellation, to June 30 1990 and
June 30 1993, respectively.
5.4   After the large cancellation of the loan amount, the Bank hired a
consultant to study the factors leading to the low level of investment in the
sector and the low utilization rate of the line of credit. The consultant and
the Bank concluded that factors leading to low investment in the economy
coupled with increasingly more favorable opportunities in tourism and the
collapse of the automobile sector, led to a dramatic decline in private
investment in the electrical and mechanical industries. In the economy at
large, from 1984 to 1987, total investment as a share of GDP declined from 31%
to 21%. This, in part, was a reaction of the political uncertainty that
characterized the end of the Bourguiba era, but equally important, investment
costs increased significantly ( by about 60% between 1984 and 1987), as a
result of the devaluation of the Dinar and the increase in customs duties on
imported capital goods. In this environment, tourism projects, which had a
significantly lower component of imported investments costs than manufacturing
projects, became more attractive. Additionally, tourism projects benefited
from a 3% interest rate rebate provided by Government, which was an additional
incentive to invest in tourism rather than industry.



6
5.5   These factors outside the EMI sector explain a large part of the decline
in investments. However, there was in addition a sudden collapse of the
automobile industry, which had a rippling effect throughout the sector. By
1987, the number of automobiles and trucks assembled had fallen to a third of
the number produced in 1984, and, over the same period, the production of
tractors was halved. The Bank could have better anticipated the collapse of
this sector, with its low capacity utilization and high inefficiencies, though
this collapse is only one factor among several responsible for the decline of
private investment in the EMI sector.
5.6   Submission and Review of Sub-pro-ects.   In general the files for the
sub-projects were in poor condition, and for the majority of projects,
separate sub-project files had not been created. Once the files were
organized, the sub-projects were examined. Overall, BDET's appraisal reports
were the most well-organized, complete and detailed. In its evaluation of sub-
projects, BDET appears to have benefited from long standing relationships with
enterprises and its participation under the first EMI Project. Of the 8
subloans which it granted, seven of them were for extension projects, a high
number in comparison with BTKD and STUSID, which together lent to five
extension projects.
5.7   Based on information available in the files, all but one sub-project met
the agreed eligibility criteria. In appraisal reports provided by all three
banks, expected FRR and ERR of sub-projects were well above minimum required
of 12 and 10%. The FRR ranged from 14% to 46% and the ERR ranged from 23% to
64%. Other than these minimum rates of return, no additional financial
indicators such as maximum debt to equity ratios or minimum debt service
coverage ratios were established as eligibility criteria. The majority of sub-
projects entailed the production of intermediate and capital goods and
coincided with the main objective of the project. Of twenty-five completed
sub-projects, seven were for the production of goods to be produced for the
first time in Tunisia, indicative of the risk profile of sub-projects.
5.8   The one project which did not fully meet eligibility criteria was the
largest investment project to receive Bank funds. The sub-project known as
MAKLADA, produced steel wiring. BTKD was the sponsor of the project and took
a 41% equity stake in breach of its policies which was a breach of the Project
Agreement. STUSID also took an equity position in the sub-project, leaving the
private sector less than a 50% share. Technically it was permissible according
to the legal definition of private ownership, which was limited to that in
which the Republic of Tunisia had no more than 50% ownership, to have two
bilateral developments hold a combined equity stake greater than 50%. The
project, however, would not reflect the spirit of the Bank loan to provide
resources to the private sector. The Project files, unfortunately, do not
contain any documentation indicating why the Bank decided to approve the sub-
project, in spite of these issues. MAKLADA received 20% of the total proceeds
of the Bank loan for investments, approximately SUS 3.7 million. The sub-
project's final investment cost was DT 16.2 million, almost equal to the
amount of the Bank loan passed on to the development banks. Currently,
MAKLADA is experiencing financial difficulties and is in arrears with STUSID
though not with BTKD.



7
5.9   Monitoring of Subt,rojects Protection by the Government. During
negotiations the Government agreed to monitor the sub-projects that benefited
from protection afforded to them through import licensing. At the onset on
the project, the Bank noted that Government would require additional resources
to monitor the ex-factory prices of EMI sub-projects and ensure that they did
not exceed acceptable levels based on international reference prices. No
reports or termB of reference in the files demonstrate that this was discussed
in the last years of supervision, although sub-projects were completed and
fully operational.
5.10  Financial Situation of BDET and STUSID.   In the course of project
implementation, BDET and STUSID redesigned their supervision policies and
procedures. According to supervision reports BDET was successful in reducing
arrears. However both banks, as of end 1992, confronted greater financial
difficulties, measured by arrears as a percentage of their portfolio and loans
affected by arrears as a percentage of their portfolio. A multitude of
exogenous factors may explain this deterioration. However, STUSID's
experience in lending for this project may also shed light on reasons for its
current level of bad loans. STUSID had a significantly higher propensity to
lend for greenfield projects than BDET. While this may be attributable to its
recent establishment, its policy regarding equity positions may have also had
an adverse impact on the loan portfolio. STUSID initially had a policy that
mandated the bank to take a large equity holding in a project, when the Bank
provided both loans and equity to a project, and this policy may have limited
the bank's ability to lend for extension projects. It is notable that of the
EMI projects financed by STUSID, most of them were greenfields. Furthermore,
of the ten sub-projects which it financed five of them are in arrears. These
five sub-projects account for 53% of the amount of proceeds from the Bank loan
which were disbursed by STUSID. In contrast only one of BDET's sub-projects is
in arrears.
5.11 Financial Situation of BTKD. Mounting arrears and a deteriorating
portfolio became a concern during implementation of the project. BTKD, by
comparison tended to be more aggressive in building up its portfolio than
STUSID which was created in the same year and had equally large equity base.
When there was a sharp downturn in private sector investment in manufacturing
industries in 1985-1987, BTKD was the last of the three development banks to
slow down approvals. BTKD financed a number of projects of uncertain
feasibility sponsored by state enterprises or state-owned banks. Lax project
supervision standards also contributed to the deteriorating portfolio. As a
result of a mission in 1988, the Bank recommended that BTKD management hire a
consultant to do a thorough review of the bank's portfolio and operational
procedures. In the files there is no evidence that BTKD responded to the
Bank's request. In 1990, however, a major reorganization took place which may
have had an impact on project appraisal and supervision standards.
6. Proiect results
6.1   Achievements and Shortcomings under the Proiect.  Institution building
of the two technical agencies was, on the whole, the most successful component
of the Bank loan. As a consequence of Bank financing, both CETIME and INNORPI
built up their services to EMI firms. CETIME met all objectives of the Bank



8
technical assiBtance, however, INNORPI was slow in developing its
certification capacity. According to a Bank study on the industrial sector,
CETIME created a system for computer aided design and computer aided
manufacture of molds for the production of plastic and rubber parts of tools
for cutting and shaping sheet metal, using-state-of-the-art machine tools,
electro-erosion tools for making complex cavities for molds, and powder
metallurgy plasma spray equipment for repairing worn metal parts. In addition,
the technical facilities in Tunis consisted of a complete system for the
design, manufacture and testing of electronic printed circuit boards (PCBs).
One weakness identified by the Bank's study was CETIME's pricing structure.
The study suggested Government's limiting its contribution to cover costs
related to CETIME's incubator services and pricing other services on entirely
a commercial basis to encourage more efficient use of resources. INNORPI, by
comparison, was not as successful as CETIME in either providing services or
recovering its costs. By 1989, INNORPI had issued only 17 product
certifications for which it had established norms. The institute, which was
fully aware of the importance of certification in enhancing product design and
production processes, prepared a program for certification of 200 industrial
products over from 1989 to 1992. More up-to-date information on CETIME's and
INNORPI's services is not available in the files, since this was not reviewed
during later supervision.
6.2   The three development banks were not fully successful in channeling the
initial amount of funds earmarked for investments. The banks provided loans to
only 25 subprojects. 22 subprojects involved the production of priority goods,
mainly intermediate and capital goods, and 3 subprojects involved the
production of non-priority goods, consumer goods which had export potential.
Supplemental information supplied by the three development banks indicate that
the projects entailed a total investment cost of US$66.8 million,
substantially below initial expectations, given the original Bank loan of SUS
50 million for on-lending. In addition, data collected after most sub-projects
were completed and operating, indicates that for most projects, all three
Banks appear to have systematically over-estimated the performance of sub-
projects. However, the majority of sub-projects should meet the minimum
financial rates of return over their lifetimes.
6.3   The three major benefits which the SAR identified for the economy were
(i) the creation of jobs, (ii) an increase in EMI exports, (iii) and a
decrease in imports of EMI goods. The project's results in creating employment
were marginal. Figures on employment indicate that sub-projects generated
about 1106 jobs with investment costs per job created at DT 54,700 for
extension projects and DT 72,800 for greenfield projects. As for the second
and third benefits general data on EMI imports and exports is inconclusive.
Given that only some sub-projects were completed and in full operation before
1990, the impact of these enterprises on EMI imports and exports is not likely
to be evident for the next few years.
7. Performance of the Borrower
7.1   Responsibilities of Government vis-a-vis the Participatina Development
Banks and Aaencies.   The Government, as the Borrower under the Loan was to
(a) provide on a grant basis funds to CETIME and INNORPI, (b) take



9
responsibility for the conduct of the two agencies and ensure maintenance of
their records and provision of information to the Bank, (c) on-lend the
proceeds of the loan to the participating Banks, (d) ensure that the Banks met
their obligations under the Project Agreement and (e) make satisfactory
provisions to protect them against losses resulting from foreign exchange
changes. The Government's performance of these obligations was satisfactory
except in the protection of BDET from foreign exchange losses. In compliance
with covenants, Government completed a foreign exchange risk study which was
later instrumental in defining a new scheme. However, Government did noc
fulfill its commitments to make payments to BDET for losses due to exchange
rate changes, because of a very tight budget situation. Despite repeated
commitments by Government to pay its arrears related to foreign exchange
losses on external borrowings, the situation worsened. Only in 1988 was the
Treasury able to make payments to BDET ( DT 19.2 million) which exceeded
BDET's losses in that year (DT 15 million ). In 1992 Government's accumulated
debt to BDET, was DT 54 million, considerably greater than when the project
was appraised. For many years during implementation, these arrears had a
serious effect on BDET profitability, however, now as a result of an agreement
reached to settle the arrears and to compensate BDET for Government's failure
to make timely payments in the past, there should be little impact on BDET's
overall financial situation.
8. Performance of the Bank
8.1   Project Preparation and Appraisal.  The Bank established the need for
the credit line and the technical assistance components based on experience
under the first Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project and extensive
sector work completed in 1980. Projections for future investments were based
on pipelines presented to the Bank in 1985, during negotiations, and approvals
of Investments by Agence de Promotion des Investissements (API) for 1986 and
beyond. With hindsight, the Bank should have paid more attention to i) the
uncertainty of the pipelines, for many projects had not yet been approved, ii)
the relationship between the size of the loan and the projected investment
demand, and iii) the Tunisian's request to have a more flexibly designed
credit line, similar to the First Electrical and Mechanical Industries
Project. Furthermore, the Bank should have been more cautious in making a
targeted line of credit to EMIs three and a half times larger than the
previous line directed to EMIs.
8.2   Pro-ect Implementation.  A review of the subproject appraisal reports,
the approval process and documentation available in Bank files reveals a lack
of consistency in the Bank's subproject examination process. Bank staff
requested pertinent additional information, so that it could make a fair
assessment of each project. However, on several occasions, including the
review of the MAKLADA loan, the projects were approved without receipt of
written correspondence that provided all additional information requested by
the Bank. Possibly this could be explained by the Division's poor system of
filing project documents and related correspondence. More than two thirds of
the projects did not have separate files which would have facilitated easy
access to earlier correspondence. Some projects were also pending for as long
as a year and appeared to have been reviewed by different staff. Under these
circumstances, maintaining proper files would have been especially helpful and



10
possibly would have led to the Bank's refusal of sub-projects that were
subsequently approved. Records on the finding of supervision missions were
also absent from the files, possibly because in the later years pre-appraisal
missions for the Industrial Finance Project were also coupled with supervision
missions, thus creating additional demands on staff.
9. Prolect Sustainability
9.1   The issue of sustainability of the project can be viewed from two
perspectives: the broad based objective to encourage the development of the
sector and the aim to assure ample resources to economically and financially
viable enterprises. The later objective was met and appears to be
sustainable. Sub-project documents approved by the Bank indicate that the
sub-projects which received Bank funds would have rates of return well-above
the minimum rate required. Furthermore, preliminary results of sub-projects'
operations, for two of the development banks, indicate that the EMI sub-
projects should meet the minimum financial rates of return criteria over their
lifetime, even though they are not preforming as well as initially
anticipated.
9.2   From a broader prospective, the development of the sector as initially
envisioned in the SAR, was not fully met and thus is not entirely sustainable.
More recognition should have been given to the difficulty in encouraging the
development of a particular sector by essentially providing only financial
resources to the development banks and sector specific institutions. During
the later half of project implementation, many committed projects were
cancelled and fewer projects emerged, as enterprises anticipated and adapted
to new industrial policies that sought to create a more liberalized and
outward-oriented economy.
9.3    As for the sustainability of the three development banks, whether they
will continue to intermediate funds will depend on continued improvements in
their abilities to appraise and supervise projects, as well as their capacity
to adequately provision for bad loans.
10.   Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Pro-ects
10.1 Credit line operations should be open for all private sector
investments, unless a targeted line can be fully justified: as a result of the
narrow scope of the credit line component, the resources were not used. A
larger general line of credit is preferable to a group of targeted lines of
credit, for reasons of flexibility among others. Three successive loans, the
EMI, Export Industries, and Small and Medium Scale Industries (SMI II) had
overlapping objectives and, in hindsight, could have easily been substituted
by a general line of credit that would have offered greater flexibility to the
development banks and better served their resource needs. To date, Government
cancelled a large portion of the Export Industries Project as well, but SMI II
has been committed and disbursed well ahead of schedule, which is a good
indication that the SMIs would have absorbed the slack in investment demand
from EMIs and Export Industries, had the three projects been consolidated into
one.



I1
10.2  Bank management should ensure adequate and reaular supervision missions
with continuity in staffina and staff should be fully responsible for properly
maintained files and timely and through reviews of sub-projects. Additional
supervision missions and improved reporting may have deepened the relationship
between the Bank and the development banks, with the benefits of further
improvement in their appraisal and supervision procedures and higher quality
of their portfolios. Better maintenance of Bank files would also have raised
the quality of the review and approval of sub-projects financed under the
loan. Had more summaries of projects been prepared by Bank staff, the Bank's
own supervision would have been improved immensely. Long delays in approving
sub-project could also have been avoided.
10.3 Supervision missions should also carefully verify compliance with all
covenants. Quota restrictions continue to exist for products manufactured by
electrical and mechanical industries. The benefit of these restrictions for
the subprojects has not been reviewed or discussed in the course of Bank
supervision, although during appraisal this was a key issue. In response to
concerns of the inefficiency of manufacturing industries, a covenant and
supplemental letter was agreed upon to ensure the efficient development of
industries, through Government monitoring of pricing policies based on
international reference prices. Generally, this type of covenant is difficult
for the Bank to monitor, given the short window between project closing and
the full operation of sub-projects. However, in this project where closing
was delayed, it was an oversight to exclude discussing compliance with the
covenant in the last two supervision missions.
10.4 The design of foreign exchange risk schemes should be an integral part
of the desian of credit line operations, and such schemes should reasonably
compensate Government for bearing the foreign exchange risk. Government's
payments to BDET for foreign exchange losses that were incurred as a result of
Bank and other external loans, were untimely and in many years reduced BDET's
profitability. While full compensation to BDET is now expected, Government
ability to repay would have been vastly improved by the existence of a foreign
exchange risk coverage scheme that approximated a market-based scheme. An
annual premium paid by BDET for the foreign exchange risk coverage was
warranted, but for many years BDET paid no premium to Government to bear the
risk.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
PART II
REPORT OF THE BORROWER



13
SOCIETE TUNISO-SEOUDIENNE
D'INVESTISSEMENT ET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 2554-TUN
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
PART II
DEVELOPMENT AND MONITORING DEPARTMENT                   December 1993
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON LOAN WORLD BANK NO. 2554-TUN



14
TUNISIA: SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
I.    OBJECTIVE
This paper seeks to provide a summary presentation of the project
completion report for the World Bank's Second Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Project in Tunisia.
II.   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE LINE OF CREDIT
1.    This line of credit was made available to finance projects in the EMI
sector.
*     Amount of the credit line =   US$54 million, of which
US$15 million onlent through STUSID
*  ~A.Duration:  17 years, including four year's grace
*     Charaes and interest:
-     interest = cost of IBRD resources + 0.5%
-     commitment charge = 75% per annum on the undisbursed amount
of the loan
*     The date of sianature of the credit line was July 9, 1985
*     The effectiveness date of the credit line was June 4, 1986
*     The date of first disbursement on the credit line was September
27, 1988
*     The loan closing date was June 30, 1993.
2.    The project objectives were:
-     to promote the development of the electrical and mechanical
industries (EMI) through the financing of financially sound investments;
-     to support the services provided to the EMI sector by the Centre
Technique des Industries Mecaniques et Electriques (CETIME) and the
Institut National de Normalisation et de la Propriet6 Industrielle
(INNORPI);
-     to assist in the introduction of improvements in the policy
framework for the operation of EMIs.



15
The project included the following parts:
Part A:
The granting by the participating development banks (BDET,
BTKD and STUSID) of sub-loans for the financing of EMI projects.
Part B: CETIME
Development and improvement of the Centre's activities through:
-     the construction of a mechanics laboratory, a unit for the
production of metal tools for foundries and an electronics
division;
-     the extension of technical assistance through the provision of
expert services in the areas of electromechanical construction,
mechanical construction and foundries.
Part C: INNORPI
Expansion and improvement of the Institute's services through:
-     the establishment of a metrology service, including the training
of staff;
-     the construction of a laboratory for testing EMI products;
-     the provision of expert services in the areas of quality
management and control.
3.    The Loan:
The World Bank (IBRD) made a loan available to the Government of
Tunisia in various currencies in an amount ecauivalent to USS54
million.
The effectiveness of the Loan Agreement was also contingent upon
the signature of the subsidiary financing agreements (onlending
agreements) between the Government and the participating
development banks. The loan closing date, scheduled originally
for June 30, 1992, was extended to June 30, 1993.
Revavment of the vrincipal was done on a six-monthly basis (every
May 15 and November 15), beginning with November 15, 1989 and
running until November 15, 2001, in constant amounts, plus a last
payment on May 15, 2002. The duration was therefore 12 and 1/2
years beginning in 1989.



16
Commitment Fees: The Government of Tunisia paid IBRD a commitment
fees of 0.75% per annum on the principal of the loan not yet
utilized (payable on May 15, and November 15).
Interest Charges: The Government of Tunisia is paying interest on
the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and outstanding at an
annual rate, for each interest period (May 15 and November 15),
at one-half of 1% over the cost of IBRD reference loans in the
last six-month period ending before the beginning of the afore-
mentioned period of interest.
Financing: The loan was to be used to finance the following categories:
Categories              Amount Allocated           X of Expenditures
Financed
(1) Subloans Under Part         US$50,000,000         100% of the amount
A  of the Project                                     disbursed by the
development bank on
account of eligible
expenditures
(2) Consultants'                 US$2,100,000         100% of foreign
services and goods                                    expenditures and 70% of
under Part B of the                                    local expenditures
Project                                                                          l
(3) Consultants.                 US$1,900,000         100% of foreign
services and goods                                    expenditures and 70% of
under Part C of the                                    local expenditures
Project
With regard to Category (1), under Part A of the Project, in
virtue of the subsidiary financing agreements that were to be
concluded between the Government and the three participating
development banks, the Government onlent:
to BDET, the equivalent of some $20 million
to BTKD, the equivalent of some US$15 million
to STUSID, the equivalent of some US$15 million
The amounts allocated to the development banks were to be used in
assisting EMI enterprises to carry out EMI projects.
An EMI enterprise was defined as any enterprise in the electrical
or mechanical sector in which less than 50% of the equity was
owned by the Government or any of its departments or agencies.



17
Eligible EMI Proiects
-     any project undertaken in one of the priority subsectors or an
industrial activity producing non-consumer electrical or mechanical
products protected by a tariff on equivalent imported products of not
more than 18% (or 21% in the case of the metal construction and boiler
works-subsectors) at the time of the Bank approval of the subloan;
-     any project in a non-priority subsector, but which is expected, in
accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, to export not
less than 30% of its products, if the EMI project is carried out by a
new EMI enterprise and if not less than 50% of its incremental
production if it is carried out by an existing EMI enterprise;
-     the projects were to have an IRR 2 12% and ERR 2 10%;
-     eligible projects were to have an estimated total investment cost
of no more than the equivalent of US$20 million.
Eligible Expenditures
-     the reasonable cost in foreign exchange for direct imports;
*    70% of the invoice price of goods purchased in Tunisia but
imported previously;
-     the portion of the cost of goods manufactured in Tunisia
representing the cost in foreign exchange of imported inputs for the
manufacture of those goods, that cost being calculated in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank in the appraised report for the EMI project;
-     60% of the cost of construction works;
-     expenditures made after the date of Loan Agreement;
-     expenditures made at the latest 90 days before the date on which
the World Bank received the request and requisite documentation.
The Subsidiary Financing Agreements
The subsidiary financing agreements stipulate that the
development banks, each acting on its own behalf:
-     reimbursed the equivalent in dinars (determined on the respective
date or dates of withdrawal from the loan account) of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the loan account for amounts paid under the
subloans, during a period not to exceed three years and in accordance
with an amortization schedule that essentially conforms, as regards to
the pertinent dates, to the relevant schedules for the subloans granted;



18
-     pay the equivalent in dinars (determined on the date of payment by
the Government to IBRD) of the commitment charge payable by the
Government to the Bank on the undisbursed portion of the loan onlent to
it;
-     pay an interest on the amount onlent to it under its subsidiary
financing agreement at a rate equal to the interest rate applicable to
the loan;
-     implement the measures decided by the exchange risk study.
The Subloans
A free-limit subloan is a subloan made in an amount of less than
US$750,000; however, regardless of their amount, the first three
subloans made by each development bank were not to be treated as free-
limit subloans.
Each request for withdrawal of funds from the loan account in
conjunction with a free-limit subloan was required to include:
-     a brief description of the EMI Enterprise and the EMI project, in
particular, a description of the expenditures to be financed through the
proceeds of the loan;
the conditions accompanying the loan, including the pertinent
amortization schedule;
*    the other subloans were to be subject to approval by the IBRD on
the basis of an appraisal report that had to include in particular;
-     the structure of  share capital, the cost of investments (total
cost and cost in foreign exchange) and the financing plan;
-     *description of the goods to be produced and, for products
manufactured in Tunisia and to be financed by the subloan, the cost of
imported inputs;
-     a detailed analysis of the market and a marketing plan;
-     an estimate of the number of jobs to be created and the average
cost;
-     a detailed study of the financial and economic rate of return of
the project (including calculation of the IRR and ERR);
-     a detailed description of the protection accorded to the project,
specifying the fees and taxes charged on imports in the case of
importation declarations and quota restrictions (level, schedule,
duration of quota restrictions) in the case of import licenses;



19
-     in the case of projects protected by import licenses and quota
restrictions, the comparable prices in foreign exchange were to be
specified and compared to the projected prices of products under the
project;
-     the non-confidential characteristics of the technical assistance
or the licensing contract signed with the foreign partner were to be
furnished in order to allow for a review of issues related to the
specifications and quality standards of the products;
-     at the request of IBRD, a simplified calculation of the level of
actual protection enjoyed by the project (with the prices in foreign
exchange used solely for marketable inputs and products but not for the
capital and labor factors of production);
-     for EMI projects in the mechanical and platework subsector, the
technical assistance program proposed by CETIME (including the scope and
implementation timetable for the above-mentioned program) and agreed
between the participating development bank and the EMI enterprises
applying for the subloan.
The documentation and request for financing were to be submitted
to IBRD by June 30, 1989 at the latest.
Terms and Conditions of the Subloans
-     The subloans were to be granted for a period not to exceed 14
years, including a maximum of three year's grace and carrying an actual
interest rate of at least 12%.
-     The subloans could not exceed the equivalent of US$2 million.  The
subloans for a given EMI project could not exceed the equivalent of US$4
million.
-     The participating development banks were to send for prior
approval of IBRD all major changes envisaged by them with regard to the
repayment conditions of any subloan.
In the event that:
(i)   The foreign exchange loss risk is transferred to the development
banks with regard to any amounts granted to them under the subsidiary
financing agreements; or
(ii) the Government charges the development banks a fee,
the development banks were to ensure that the above-mentioned risk was
transferred or that the fee was passed on to the sub-borrowers.



20
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.    From the outset, the project experienced considerable delays:
(i)   With regard to effectiveness:  The Loan became effective only on
June 4, 1986 following the signature of the onlending agreements (May
16, 1986), i.e. nearly one year after the signature of the loan
agreements (July 9, 1985). This delay was due essentially to
circumstances connected with BDET's situation, as well as the approval
of the guarantee agreements by the House of Deputies.
(ii) With regard to approvals of commitments: The first financing
appraisal reports were sent in March 1986; the World Bank did not notify
us whether they had been approved until one year later (March 1987).
During that time, the World Bank was undergoing a reorganization.
2.          That delay undoubtedly had a negative impact on the proper
utilization of the line of credit, although it was Tunisia's
economic slowdown in late 1986-1987, which coincided with the
start-up of commitments of the line of credit, that considerably
impeded the normal use of the line.
3.    Numerous factors limited the utilization of the EMI credit line:
In addition to the delays in the start-up of the line of
credit and the economic downturn in Tunisia, the other factors
that hindered credit line operations were:
(i)   Very restricted eligibility criteria formulated in the loan
agreements. In particular, two subsectors were distinguished:
-     a priority subsector:  the projects in this subsector were those
that produced capital or intermediate goods (defined in reference to
similar goods for which the import custom duties were less than 18%).
Expenditures in foreign exchange for such projects were eligible for
refinancing under the EMI line of credit;
-     the non-priority subsector:  the complement to the priority
subsector in the EMI sector. In order to be eligible for financing
under the line of credit, projects in the non-priority subsector had to
meet criteria with regard to exports:
-     the export of at least 30% of production for projects carried out
by a new EMI enterprise;



21
-     the export of at least 50% of incremental production for projects
carried out by an existing EMI enterprise.
When compared with the export line of credit, the EMI line of
credit appears to be an export sub-line, with the difference that
it is limited by sector and that it finances projects producing
capital goods (which is rare in Tunisia). This all underscores the
fact utilization of the EMI line of credit, in addition to its
sectoral constraint was highly restricted.
(ii) The new obstacles posed by the World Bank
After the loan agreements became effective, the World Bank
established new restrictions, including:
-     the non-eligibility of Tuniso-Algerian projects;
-     the non-eligibility of projects upstream or downstream of
the automotive sector.
These new obstacles were a factor in the under-utilization of the
EMI II line of credit.
(iii) The difficulties inherent in the proiects in the EMI sector
The projects in the EMI sector were the hardest hit by the
restructuring of the Tunisian economy; the percentage of loans cancelled
was quite high: by the end of 1987, nearly 25% of STUSID approvals for
the EMI sector had been cancelled.
(iv) Rigidity of approvals under the EMI line of credit
This rigidity was due to the setting of a deadline for commitments
(June 30, 1989) that was very remote from the loan closing date (June
30, 1992 at first, and later extended to June 30, 1993).
Thus, despite the upswing in investments in the EMI sector in the
last half of 1989 and especially in 1990, several projects could not be
approved because of the commitment deadline, which was not extended in
the amendments of August 16, 1989.
4.    Cancellations and amendments to the EMI line of credit
Owing to all these difficulties and the slow use of the line
of credit, STUSID and the other participating development banks
requested successive cancellations from the amount of the credit



22
line as well as amendments, so that the portion remaining could be
better utilized.
(i)   Amendments to the loan agreements and iprolect agreements
*     The requests for amendments formulated in March 1988 involved the
following points:
-     cancellation of a part of the loan:  US$5 million for
STUSID;
-     extension of the commitment deadline to June 30, 1990
instead of June 30, 1989;
-     extension of the utilization deadline to June 30, 1993
instead of June 30, 1992 (closing of the loan);
-     greater flexibility in requirements with regards to customs
duties, in particular expansion of the priority subsector to
include projects with a protection rate of less than 25% (instead
of 18% and 21% in the loan agreements);
-     expansion of loan utilization to applications for
reconversion and rehabilitation projects, as well as projects
involving industrial maintenance and services.
*     The amendments to the EMI II Loan, finally concluded on
August 16, 1988, only partially reflected the requests indicated
above.
(ii) Partial cancellations of the credit line
The amount of the credit line actually utilized is US$4,843,629.
Cancellations totalled $10,156,371, and were made on the following
dates:
Cancellation of March 22, 1986                           US$5,000,000
Cancellation of February 15, 1989                        US$4,055,345
Cancellation of June 30, 1990                            US$1,101,026



23
5.    Utilization of the EMI line of credit
(US$ 000)                  Withdrawals          Cumulative withdrawals
for the year
1988                        555                         555
1989                        627                        1382
1990                       2551                        3933
1991                        114                        4047
1992                        797                        4844
1993 (06/30/93)                                              4844
i.e. a utilization rate of 32.3% of the initial amount of the line of credit
and 62% of the amount following the 1988 and 1989 cancellations.



24
Glossary of French Terms in Tables
Approbation                                                 Approval
CoOt final d'investissement                                 Final investment cost
Decalssements                                               Disbursements
D6signation projet                                          Project name
Emplois crees                                               Jobs created
Engagements                                                 Commitments
Imputations                                                 Commitments
Montants des arrier6s de 1'entreprise                       Amount of arrears of sub-borrower
Observations                                                Comments
P;riode d'amortissement du sous-pret                        Amortization of subloan
Projets soumis et approuv6s                                 Projects submitted and approved
Taux d'interet du sous-pret                                 Interest rate on sub-loan



25
Ann3xI
Page 1 of I
STUSD-OOs                                                               'Situenoneu 31/1/93)
|  f TAD 11T,'?SL1A 7ION DF IA ZI IAEP Df CEfDIT
ffIA' -it/-E II N  2'.554
PROJETS   SOUMIS ET APPROUVES
FINANCEMENT      ItMPUTATIONS    DECAISSEMENTS
H IDESIGATION PROJET STUSID(I000DT)    (1000 S US)             (1000 $ US)  OBSERVATIONS
N. J,DESIGKATION     Approb. Debours   DOte    Montent Date ler deb. bontent
cI  rlATAFI                558      558  14-08-87    555  27-09-88    55 
Cz  01 NT3 DE CARDAN      t160      330   9- f 2- 87    302  23- 05- 90    257
CS OITILS DE COUPE         528      528   23- 5- 87    593  23- 05- 90    549
Cs |KADA                  1 741    1 741  28-10-88   1 178  26-06-90   1 178
Cs TUBES& POFI L. CUIYRE    450    450  28-10-88    364  06- 12-89    364
C9 AMORTISSEURS HYDR.      650      650   3-10-89    615  15- 11-90    615
ci ARTICLES EMILLES        175     175   3- 10-89    200  07- 07-92    175
cli FONDAL                 656      603   17-5-90    537  31-01-92    402
c12, TPC,If                100      too   17-5-90    114  09-014-91    114
C13 SOTETEL                600      600   17- 5- 90    635  27-09-88    635
C14 REN. M,OTEURS ELECTR.  560        0   17-5-90    503  27- 09- 88       0
1C15 FAWANIS                220     182   17- 5- 90    25Ql 27-09-88       0
TOTAL                 732991   5 917            5847            (48144



26
Anex2
Page 1 of 2
_ThJSID - OO"-i(R
;:e-93
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEYIENT DU DEUX;E,YE PR C.JET
DINDUSTRJES MECAN. QUES ET ELECTRIQUES
aTUSID: PRET NH  2554 - TUN
TABLEAU I: PROFIL DE3 SOUS-PROJETS FINANCES
N du             Mom Je               CAot final    Emplkis creez  3i Ie Projet a ete annul& .
'Pro),4t       l'Entrpprisa        Tinyestirsem-ent
(1000 OT)
_1-1    Matafi                             I 635             25    _
prujet non realis;; Ie promote.,-
C-2    SOCUOx                                                      5'Fst desiste
C-3    Joints Jd CarJan-Silrao              913              10
projet non rialise tompltxement
C-4    Soqi                                2 55-                         aye,* si4t4 au promot;tir
C-5    Ouitfst do Coop*-Satuasvp.          1 400             30
C-6    Filakda                           16 172             125 
extensioni non reelisee; la societFt
C-7    Sac                _        _ _                             prumotrice  t a rononu
C-B     Soc. Tubes de Cu7vr*-TPC I         2 750             72        _
C-9     Amortis. Hjdramil.-SIA            3 348              30
C-tC    Articles imaillis-Abalros           677              10
C-1t 1    ol4al                            1 600             47
C-12   Soc. Tubes de Cuiyr&-TPC 11        2 750              72                  _-
C-13   SntOt*1                            3 890             90)2   * il sbqit de l'eff*ctif total
projet non rialis4; le promoteur
C-'4    Rencyations Moteurs Elec.          -              _        est d6failant; schema non boucle
C-15  Fr -anIs                              930              46
. rojet non r;alis-; schema -i
C-16   Pre-cast                                          .         finan.:ement non boucli



27
Anne, 2
Page 2 of 2
RAPtRuKT  IJ ACiEYEHENT ii iDUj Eu iEit  PRi3JET
DJiNDUST RIES MECANIQUES ET ELECTRIQUE-S
STUSID : PRET N- 2554 - TUN
TA8LEAU II - PROJFIL DES SOUS-PROJETS F:NAMCES
l ' du  i          moa dt             i  Mentant du   i Taux 4'nterit i    Periode        i  Met-Mat des
5Pro;ot          V 't'tatrepA3i       {   Sose3-Pret     du Sous-Pri$t td irrti.szement'  arr1iirs de
I  I                                                               dni0 liss  I Soes-Prit  l E tr?rits
,__________________________  ____________ _  g (Ana.;es)  | (_     000   T)
C-_I    Matafi                       1       555.2201        13001              10 S               - I
C-      lsi"                          I                        -        I        -I                          !
1C      j    --    --  r!                                               !      -  I  -  I
!       I~                            I                I                              
IC-:$    |oAtsS de Cardan-Sitrac   |1         2S7,357 t,       3,0011't |16                         :42.S   !
,!-4      -  
IC-s   lOutils de Couoe-sotucoupe            549S293          13.00%         _        0               78.8   I
IC-4   !"irklad                             1 177,601         12,00SC            I 0                  63,3 |
'C-7   isaceu                                 -        I       -                -I-
I-iS     Sac. Tubes de Cuirre-TPC I|         363,548          13.00%   |          7
I   I                                 I                                 Ii
jC-9    lAm  ortis.  H gdr.uI.-SIA   | _ _ _ __ _ _     ____ ___ ___ |______ ______  !
c-to  lA-rtAies  mnailhs-Albatres |          174,686 |       12,2S96_  |         7                  109.6
C-t t     _|fondal __                 _      401 ,W14        13 50C%  I{        :0        L.6 
C-12  )Sc. Tubes de Coiire-TPC II             113 T800     1   2.50               8 a
IC-Is    Sotetel                             635,127  1       I3,U%   I          10 I 
C|14  lRinoyations Moteurs Ele _a          |   _   |   _   | 
imxputation                   I      -     
r-1s    Favaais                              250,400          13,001             7
C _,6    Pr_e_-_c_ I                                   - !     -        I- t                        -        I



28
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION



29
Table 1
Related Bank Loans
Loan      Year of   Purpose                                    Amount
No.       Approval                                             Disbursed
US$million
1969      1981       Small-Scale Industry Development          30.0
2113      1982       Electrical and Mechanical Industries    30.5
2301      1983       SOFOMECA Foundry Modernization and        16.8
Expansion
2522      1985       Export Industries Project                 25.7
Source: SAR
Table 2
Proiect Timetable
Stage of Project    Original Date        Actual Date
Cycle__                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Identification      May 1984             May 1984
Appraisal            December 1984       December 1984
Negotiations        April 1985           April 1985
Board Approval      May 1985             May 1985
Effectiveness       November 1985        June 1986
Loan Closing        June 1992            June 1993
Source: MIS



30
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
Table 3
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
by End of Calendar Year
(US $ million)
Original Amount                 Actual Amount
1985                         .26
1986                        4.84                             --
1987                       15.64                            1.61
1988                       28.60                            9.35
1989                       39.94                           11.82
1990                      47.50                            17.88
1991                       51.82                           19.88
1992                       54.00                           20.76
1993                        --                             20.87
Source: MIS



31
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
Table 4
Selected Project Implementation Indicators
Implementing   Indicators                 Expected   Actual    Comments
Agency                                    Date        Date
The            Purchase of US$1.9
Government     million of equipment
of Tunisia     and services for
expansion and improve-
ment of the operations   6/31/92    6/31/93   Purchase of US$ 2.6
of CETIME                                        million of equipment
and services
Purchase of equipment
and services totaling
US$2.1 million for
expansion and improve-
ment of INNORPI's         6/31/93    6/31/93   Purchase of US$1.9 of
operations                                       equipment and services
BDET           Completion of lending    6/31/92    6/31/93   Partial Achievement US$
US$ 20 million from                              7.3 million lent
Loan proceeds to
enterprises for export
projects
BTKD           Completion of lending    06/31/92   6/31/93   Partial Achievement US$
US$ 15 million from                              4.5 million lent
Loan proceeds to
enterprises for export
projects
STUSID         Completion of lending    6/31/92    6/31/92   Partial Achievement US$
US$ 15 million from                              4.8 million lent
Loan proceeds to
enterprises for export
projects
Source:  SAR, supervision reports and MIS



32
Table 5
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs and Financing  Original Est.  Actual Amount
US$ million    US$ million
Subproject Investment Costs   110.0             66.8
Bank Financing                   50.0           16.7
Equipment and services            2.0            2.6
purchased by CETIME
Equipment and Services            2.0            1.9
purchased by INNORPI
Source: SAR and MIS



33
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
Table 6
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Estimated at Appraisal                   Actual
Increase in resources for                Achieved but lower demand for
investments in electrical and            financing than expected.
mechanical industries.
Expansion and improvement of the         Achieved.
operation of CETIME through the
establishment of a mechanics
laboratory and greater availability
of technical assistance.
Expansion and improvement of the         Partially achieved. Based on a 1989
operation of INNORPI through the         report INNORPI had only issued 17
provision of expert services in the    certifications.
areas of quality management and the
establishment of i) a metrology
service and ii) a laboratory for
testing EMI products.
Source: SAR, LA, PA, and supervision reports



34
B. Indirect Benefits
Estimated at Appraisal                   Actual
Increase in output and export            Too early to evaluate impact of sub-
earnings generated by electrical and   projects on EMI exports and imports.
mechanical industries and decrease
in the share of the country's
consumption of EMI goods that is
imported.
Creation of jobs through investment    Partially Achieved.  Statistics
projects financed.                       provided by banks as of 1993 year
end indicate the creation of only
1106 jobs.
ource: Sar and subproject appraisal reports
C. Rates of Return on Subproject Investments
Estimated                                Actual
Minimum ERR of 10%                        25% - 64%
Minimum FRR of 12%                        14% - 46%
Source: SAR and subproject appraisal reports



35
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
Table 7
Status of Project Covenants
A. Loan Agreement (LA)
LA: Section 3.01
Covenant: Borrower Commitment to objectives and responsibilities
under the project.
Status:    Compliance.
LA:         Sections 3.02 - 3.03
Covenant:   General conditions for re-lending funds
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 3.04
Covenant:   Borrower supervision of procurement of goods purchased by
CETIME and the INNORPI, through comparison and evaluation of
price quotations obtained from not less than three reliable
suppliers.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 3.05
Covenant:   Employment of consultants to implement Parts B and C of the
project by CETIME and INNORPI; consultants' qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment being satisfactory to
the Bank.
Status:     Compliance.



36
LA:         Section 4.01
Covenant:   Borrower ensures: i) the maintenance of records and accounts,
in accordance with sound practices, by CETIME and INNORPI; ii)
that annual audits of CETIME and INNORPI are performed by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and iii) the
provision of information reasonably requested by the Bank.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 4.02
Covenant:   Borrower responsibility for the way CETIME and INNORPI carry
out their operations and affairs.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 4.03
Covenant:   Non-interference with the Development banks in the execution of
responsibilities under the Project Agreement.
Status:     Compliance.
LA:         Section 4.04
Covenant:   Completion of a foreign exchange risk study by March 31, 1986.
Status:     Compliance. Results were instrumental in defining a scheme
adopted under SAL I.



37
IA:         Section 4.05
Covenant:   Protection of BDET, BTKD and STUSID from losses resulting from
exchange rate changes.
Status:     Partial compliance.  Delays in compensating BDET for losses
from exchange rate changes.
LA:         Section 4.06
Covenant:   Bank/Borrower review of financial requirements of Development
Banks by December 31 of each year.
Status:     Compliance.  Done in the context of a review of interest rate
structure in Tunisia.
LA:         Section 4.07 and Supplemental Letter No.4
Covenant:   Implementation of measures to ensure gradual increases in the
competitiveness and efficiency of the Borrower's electrical and
mechanical industry including: i) ensuring that prevailing
tariff duties be enforced in a consistent manner with respect
to all imports of all EMI capital goods and supplies; ii)
limiting duties of the fore-mentioned to a maximum of 18%, with
the exception of steel structure and platework products for
which a tariff of a maximum 21% would be allowed; and iii) for
products already produced in Tunisia which are protected by an
import licensing system, ensuring that Tunisian promoters shall
not be allowed to charge ex-factory prices greater than 118% of
the comparable foreign price on EMI capital goods and supplies
(except for steel structure and platework products for which a
level of 121% would be acceptable).
Status:     No record of compliance or non compliance in supervision
reports with Letter No.4, as detailed above.



38
B. Proiect Agreement
PA:         Section 2.01
Covenant:   Commitment of BDET, BTKD and STUSID to project objectives.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.02
Covenant:   Granting of sub-loans by BDET, BTKD and STUSID according to
criteria in Schedule 1.
Status:     General Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.03
Covenant:   Documentation required for presenting sub-loans to the Bank.
Status:     Partial compliance.  Complete documentation not available in
the files for all subprojects.
PA:         Section 2.04
Covenant:   Obligation of BDET, BTKD and STUSID to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower in contracts for sub-loans.
Status:     Compliance.



39
PA:         Section 2.05
Covenant:   Reporting requirements of BDET, BTKD and STUSID on use of Bank
funds.
Status:     Compliance.  Audit reports submitted with delays up to 6
months.
PA:         Section 2.06
Covenant:   Rules governing the establishment of any subsidiaries by BDET,
BTKD or STUSID.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.07
Covenant:   BDET, BTKD and STUSID to perform obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 2.08
Covenant:   Requirement for exchange of views between each of the
participating banks and the Bank on the progress of the
project.
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Section 3.01
Covenant:   BDET, BTKD and STUSID to carry on their operation and conduct
their affairs in accordance with statutes and Statements of
Policy.
Status:     Compliance by BDET and STUSID.  BTKD took at 41% equity stake
in an EMI subproject, in breach of its policies.



40
PA:          Schedule 1
Covenant:   Eligibility criteria for investment projects
Status:     Compliance.
PA:         Schedule 2
Covenant:   Appraisal report format
Status:     Compliance, except details on project sometimes missing from
standard document.



41
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
Staff Time Allocation by Stage of Project Cycle
(Staffweeks)
Preparation and    Negotiations through    Supervision      Total
FY          Appraisal           Effectiveness
1985        61.3                       6.6                 1.0            68.9
1986        ----                       ----               10.2            10.8
1987        ----                       ----               10.7            12.4
1988        ----                       ----                5.9             7.2
1989        ----                       ----               11.9             8.3
1990        ----                       ----               11.3            11.4
1991        ----                       ----               12.6             9.3
1992        ----                       ----                3.3             2.8
1993        ----                       ----                0               0
Total       61.3                        6.6               63.2            131.1
Source: MIS



42
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA: ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN 2554-TUN
Table 9: Use of Staff Resources
Major Project Missions
Activity  Date                # of    # of       Project
days    Persons   Rating
ID         9/84               12       3         NA
APP        11/27-12/15/85    15        6         NA
SP         10/8-10/9/85       19       1         NA
SPN1       12/2-12/17/85      18       3         2
SPN2       4/14-5/1/86        17       2         NR
SPN3       1/19-2/6/87        20       3         3
SPN4       9/17-9/30/87       11       3         NR
SPN5       6/26-7/8/88        13       3         NR
SPN6       9/3-16/89          14       4         NR
SPN7       10/11-24/90        14       5         NR
SPN8       11/4-26/91         16       5         NR
SPN9       11/4-20/92         17       2         2
Source: Project Files
Activities: APP = Appraisal;                       ID =  Identification
SP  = Supervision Preparation         SPN - Supervision
NA = Non Applicable                   NR  - Not Reported
1/ The total number of days in the field for supervision missions is not a
good indication of time spent on the Electrical and Mechanical Industries
Project. Most missions actually covered many more than one project, but back-
to-office reports did not specify the number of days spent on each project.



Table 10              Subprojects and their Investment Costs
FUtAL              DISBURSED
DATE                          GOODS                           EST.  EST  INVESTMENT NWVESTMENT ARfARS            LOAN        JOBS   GREEN    NEW
NAME OF INVESTMENT ACtVlITY        NO. APPROVE                       MANUFACTURED                        ERFR  FRR   COST (TO)   COST (TD)              AMOUNT (USD) CREATED  FIRELD  PRODUCT
Flnanced by BDET:
Soceteo Gon dAppi, Mecan. (GAM)    A-I   06/25/87                 Generstora     diesel enOrns suporchwgen  84%   28%    1,350,000    481.000                  135,760       20       1        0
Tunisacler                         A2   08/12/87                                    galanIzed siheet mea   30%   171    6,300,000    9,234.000                 412,160       33       0        0
Chakira                            A3   08/12/87                                          eldrcel cabls  66%   22%        920,000    2,755,500                 746,458       25      0         0
Embaitage MAufL el Solseons Gaz    A-4   12/09/87                      boe to gaseous drtnkS. eroo cans  35%   21%    3,550,000    4.950,000                 1,737,831       66      0         1
Mecafiax                           A-S   09/19/88                                             PVC pipig    NA    NA       100,000      100,000                  71.364        5      0        0
Acucnul eum Nour                  A46   09/28/88                                            le4d baKerIe  73%   40%    1,050,000      ,000,0)00                499.879       20       0        0
SotupIte                           A-7  04/17/89                                               cancelled
Tunlse-Cables                     A-8   10/03/89                                         eladrlcabes   NA    NA    1,216,000        1,400,000                 851,871      100       0        0
Cablele Chaktra2                  A-9   11/07/89                                        teephone calss   NA   34%    3,000,000      1,500,000                1,515,847      50       0        0
Sotupte 2                          A10  07/26/89                                          Itine bSeCede   32%   15%    3.152,000     3,027,000    62.519      1,228,910       0       0        0
Financed by ETKD:
Tunisacler                         6-1   08/1 3/87                                   galaned  e  mtal  30%   17%    8.300,000    9,234,000                     579,257       33       0        0
MaKlada                            B-2   12/09/87                                       St"t wire-swlg   10%   18%   15.700.000   16.172,000                 2,492,951      180       1        1
TTE                                B-3   12/09/87                                   U_tmal switche, PABX    NA   17%    1,t20,000    1,530,000                 208,727       50       1        1
Sorosa                             B-4   12/09/87 5                                              faob   30%   14%    2.500,000       2,350,000    1.024        517.749       45       1        0
Sogim                              6-5   05/23/8  compresrs, Trconditioned deeengies, tmtSSon boxes  46%   26%    3,350,000    1,833,000                       675.653       40       1        0
Tunisian Telecom Electric (TTE2)  B6   08/29/88                                               canceled                                                             0
Societe Tunwlenne d'Eclairage      5-7   08/29/88                            lfghUng fiure and accesorie   23%   19%      520,000      520,000                 174,387       18       0        0
Pots adEchappemetnt               88   10/28/S8                                               cancelled                                                            0
Flnanced by STUSID:
Malaf                              C-1  08/14/87                                         be exthiquhshen  32%   38%    1,600,000     1,635,000                 ss5.220       25       1        1
Scinox                             C-2   12/06/87                                              canxcee                                                               0
Joints de Cardan                   C-3  12/09/87                                WunZW tutsmbaSon ,of   32%   32%    4.000,000          915,000   142,600       257,358       10       1        1
Sogim                               C-4   12/09/87                                             cancee
Outits de Co4pe                    C-S   05/23/88                                            cutg toob  52%   46%    1,200,000    1.400,000    78,800          549.293       30       1        1
Malkada                            C-4   10/2d/88                                       sL  WstrSAng  19%   18%   15,700,000    18,172.000    63,300          1.177,602     125       1        1
Sacrn                              C-7   10/28/88                                              canceled                                                              0
Societe Tubes CuOre                C-B   10/28/88                                           oopp pipng   NA   30%    2,380,000       2,750,000                 363,549       72       1        0
Amoullsseurs HydratUques           C-9   10/03/89                                  hydrolleshockcaLsortes   kA   37%    Z,000,00     3,348,000                 615,478       30       1        0
Art4cles Emaees                    C-10  10/03/89                     esnarneted Coee pois,t ke    end trays   NA   3t%   600,000      677,000   109,600       174,U57       10       1        0
Fondal                             C-11  S0/17/90                                        Sumfm tundry   NA    NA              NA     1,600,000    70,600       401,514       47       0        0
TPC II                             C-12  05/17/90                                           coppor pipn    NA    NA           NA 2t750,000                     113,800       72       0        0
Sotetel                            C-3  08/17/90                                              teephones   NA    NA            NA     3,890,000                 635,127        0       0        0
Renovton Mt*ues Elec.              C-14  05/17/90                                               canceled
Feweni                             C-1s  05/17/90                                               cacle



