Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P4|flTUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS54.O MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
MAY 3, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofichd duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CY 1984               February 1985
Currency Unit                      Tunisian Dinar (TD)         TD
US $ 1                             TD 0.7768                   TD 0.9037
TD 1=                             US$ 1.2873                  US$ 1.1066
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report is US $1 = TD 0.83.
Fiscal year  =   Calendar year
List of Abbreviations
API                 Agence de Promotion des Investissements Industriels
BCT                 Banque Centrale de Tunisie
BDET                Banque de DMveloppement E.- nomique de Tunisie
BNDT                Banque Nationale de D6veloppement Touristique
BTEI                Banque de Tunisie et des Emirats d'Investissements
BTKD                Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Diveloppemeat
BTQI                Banque Tuniso-Qatarie d'Investissements
CETIME              Centre Technique des Industries Mecaniques et Electriques
EMI                 Electrical and Mechanical Industries
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
INNORPI             Institut National de la Normalisation et de la Propriete
Industrielle
SSI                 Small-Scale Industries
STUSID              Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de
Developpement
.



FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY PROJECT
Borrower:                   Republic of Tunisia.
Beneficiaries:              Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie
(BDET), Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de D1veloppement
(BTKD), Societ; Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement
et de D1veloppement (STUSID), Centre Technique des
Industries Mecaniques et Electriques (CETIME) and
Institut National de la Normalisation et de la
Propriete Industrielle (INNORPI).
Amount:                     $54 million equivalent.
Terms:                      17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:            The Government would onlend in Dinars $50.0
million equivalent of the Bank loan to BDET ($20.0
million equivalent), BTKD ($15.0 million
equivalent) and STUSID ($15.0 million equivalent)
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
BDET, BTKD and STUSID would repay their loans to
the Government according to a composite
amortization schedule of the subloans financed out
of the proceeds of the loan. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Subborrowers
would be charged an effective interest rate of at
least 12 percent per annum. The Government would
grant $2.1 million equivalent to CETIME and $1.9
million equivalent to INNORPI.
Project Description:        The project would assist the Government of Tunisia
in continuing the development of Tunisia's
electrical and mechanical industries (EMI) through
a $50.0 million equivalent line of credit to BDET,
BTKD and STUSID, enabling these banks to make
subloans for eligible EMI projects.  The project
would also provide an equipment and technical
assistance package of $2.1 million equivalent to
CETIME to enable this institution to expand its
services to entrepreneurs in the mechanics, metal
tools for foundries and electronics subsectors.
It would also provide testing and control
equipment and technical assistance for $1.9
million equivalent to INNORPI to enable this
institution to expand its services from technical
standards formulation to testing and certification
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
of instruments and equipment. The project will
assist in the continuing development of EMIs,
increasing output, job availability and foreign
exchange earnings, and will strengthen three
development banks, CETIME and INNORPI. The
project involves no special risks, though some
risk is attached to external factors which could
depress EMI export possibilities. Nevertheless,
the performance oE the EMI sector in the last few
years is encouraging and testifies to the ability
of local entrepreneurs to realistically identify
opportunities and secure their share of identified
markets. On balance, therefore, the risk appears
reasonable and well worth taking in relation to
potential benefits.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank  1Y 1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
- - -                      $ Thousand - - - - - - - - - - …   - -
Annual           540   8,640  12,960  12,960   9,720   5,400   3,240        540
Cumulative       540   9,180  22,140  35,100  44,820  50,220  53,460  54,000
Appraisal Report: No. 5487-TUN of May 1, 1985.
Map: No. IBRD 18707



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECC" 'UCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$54.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance a Second Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
*         interest rate.  Fifty million dollars of the proceeds of the Loan would be
onlent to the Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) ($20.0
million), Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD) ($15.0 million),
and Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne dlnvestissement et de Developpement (STUSID)
($15.0 million) for a term of 17 years, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - TFE ECONOMY -t'
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983. An economic
mission to review the performance of Plan implementation at mid-term visited
Tunisia in April 1984; its findings are reflected in this part and the country
data sheets, attached in Annex I.
3.       Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of
7 million and a per capita income of $1200.' Much of Tunisia is arid or
semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuation
in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every
three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw materials
are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable reserves of oil
and gas are approaching depletion, and new hydrocarbon reserves are limited
and require costly off-shore drilling; priority is now given to slowing down
the growth of domestic consumption by conservation and pricing measures. The
low quality of phosphate deposits constrains the expansion of the highly
efficient Tunisian phosphate processing industry. The country also has
considerable tourism potential, but after a period of rapid expansion, the
sector is experiencing difficulties in maintaining competitive prices and
quality standards.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-3996-TUN of April 2, 1985 for an Export Industries Project.
2/ 1984 preliminary figure at current prices and current exchange rates.



-2-
4.   Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human resources,
paying special attention to family welfare, education, and technical and
vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and the early
1980s, the infant morcality rate declined from almost 160 to 65,
the expectation of life at birth rose from 48 to 61 years, the adult literacy
rate increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply
per capita increased from 83 to 116 percent of minimum standard requirements.
An active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease
in fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to 2.1 percent over the
same period.  However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC cotntries and Libya, the
growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly
growing, serious unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 14 percent
in 1983 and underemployment is extensive. These problems are particularly
serious among young school dropouts.
5.       During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy did extremely well.  Rapid
growth is~ the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by substantial structural
transformvation as manufacturing and tourism became more diversified, and their
share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefitted from
substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30 per-ent of GDP). It also benefitted from improved
economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. The current account deficit, averaging 5 to 6
percent of GDP over the period, was easily financed, much of it by direct
foreign investment. The only major problem was a high rate of vrnemployment
and underemployment.
6.       To accelerate job creation, more than half of total investments of
the Fifth Plan (1977-81) was allocated to directly productive sectors, but the
direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum, phosphate mining
and processing, and LouLibul) wtee small and unemployment continued to
increase. These sectors, however, made a vital contribution to GDP, public
savings and exports. They provided 52 percent of the country's foreign
exchang.e- earnings in 1983, while manufacturing activities, except
phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
7.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposes a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regionaL development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism.  The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-initensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened incomes policy, in particular cautious wage and
salary policies and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditlires.



-3-
8.       The Sixth Plan started poorly.  In 1982, a prolonged drought
depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial production, technical
problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries, and tourism and exports
of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the recession in Europe. The
economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant growth in manufacturing
output, stimulated by rapidly growing local demand. This brought the average
annual growth of GDP in the first three years of the Plan to 3.5 percent,
compared to 5.3 percent targeted. This performance is nonetheless commendable
in view of the world recession and compared with other countries.
9.       More worrisome than the slowdown in economic growth are the
macroeconomic imbalances, which have worsened over the last years. In
contradiction to the Plan's macroeconomic scenario, the investment rate
remained high rather than declined, mainly due to high public enterprise
investments in energy and transportation, and consumption expanded rapidly,
fuelled by sharp increases in wages and salaries. The corresponding strong
demand pressure, facilitated by rather liberal credit policies, was reflected
in rising inflation: 13.6 percent in 1982, compared to a 7.8 percent average
over 1977-81; it was slowed to 9 percent in 1983 through increased price
controls. Lower than planned overall economic growth, higher capital
intensity of new investments, and the sharp increase in labor costs comb2.ned
to keep employment creation below Plan goals, and unemployment further
increased.
10.      Despite a virtual stagnation of imports (in constant prices) due to
tightened import control, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments deteriorated to 8.8 percent of GDP by 1984. A fall in exports of
petroleum and of agricultural products, and a slowdown in tourism, depressed
export receipts. Direct foreign investmeut (mainly in the oil and gas sector)
stagnated in 1983-84. Nevertheless, Tunisia's net foreign exchange reserves
increased substantially to reach 1.6 months of imports at end-1983, as
compared to 1.1 at end-1980. This reflects, inter alia, a revaluation of the
Central Bank's foreign exchange assets, as well as the Government's drawing
down part of a syndicated Eurodollar loan contracted in 1982.
11.      The budgetary situation has also deteriorated since 1981; the Central
Government's overall budget deficit jumped from 2.5 to over 7 percent of GDP
between 1981-84. This reflected increases in public investments and in
recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary increases, higher subsidy
payments to households and public enterprises, and growing dollar-denominated
debt service payments caused by 36 percent dollar appreciation vis_a-vis the
Tunisian dinar between 1981-84. On the other hand, this latter factor helped
keep petroleum revenues from falling, and total revenues showed a continuous
growth despite the recession.  In 1983-84, recurrent expenditure growth slowed
considerably, however, as a result of a freeze in Government salaries and
wages and of lower consumer subsidies.



-4-
12.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors: future developments
in the hydrocarbon sector; and the speed with which the GovernmenL implements
the far-reaching macroeconomic policy changes outlined in the Sixth Plan. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have not been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production could be stabilized at about its present annual level of 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.  Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia would turn into a net importer of oil in the early 1990s.
13.      Making the necessary adjustments to prepare the economy for the post-
hydrocarbon era is made more difficult by increasing financial and balance of
payments constraints.  While ther% is little disagreement about the
desirability or objectives of economic reform, the appropriate implementation
measures and particularly the speed of reform are more controversial. While
undeniable progress has been made since the early 1980s in several respects,
other factors have worked in the opposite direction (para. 14). Over the last
years, the Government has focussed with some success on administrative type
measures. Legitimately concerned with the immediate economic and social
problems, it resorted to short-term measures and direct, quantitative controls
such as mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. Among longer-term
policies, only export promotion was addressed by a sufficiently broad approach
(tax rebates, foreign exchange risk insurance, special credit, trade
companies). The price liberalization process has moved slowly, with some
reductions in price subsidies (particularly for agricultural inputs,
transportation and energy) and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. Economic incentives have been modified to promote
regional development and stimulate smaller firms, but the existing bias in
favor of capital-intensive investment rather than employment has little
changed. Finally, fiscal reform has been initiated.
14.      Policy reforms to address the root causes of the structural
imbalances identified by L'ue- SIXth lidaLl have been less actively pursued.
Specifically, major areas that need greater attention are: (a) wage and
salary policies, which should become more restrictive, so as to slow down
growth of public and private consumption and stimulate savings,
labor-intensive investments and exports and, thus, increase employment
creation. As mentioned befDre, recent trends have been in the opposite
direction; (b) subsidy policies, with consumer subsidies to be reduced so as
to dampen private consumption and stimulate public savings. Some encouraging
first steps have been taken in this respect, but more action is needed;  (c)
interest policies, to make interest rates positive in real terms, so as to
stimulate savings and labor-intensive investments. A thorough reassessment of
these policies is underway; (d) public enterprise reform, to stop the drain of
public enterprise deficits on the Government budget. First steps have been
taken in this direction, and a number of enterprises have been closed; (e)
public investments, which should be reduced to decrease the budget deficit,
but made more efficient and reoriented so as to increase their contribution to
economic growth and employment creation. A particularly careful screening of
projects will be necessary in the future; (f) domestic protection and pricing
policies so as to create more incentives for exports, particularly for
manufactured products; and (g) exchange rate policies, so as to ensure that
exports (including tourism) become more competitive.



-5-
15.      Even if the Government moves more rapidly in implementing all or most
of the above measures, the delays incurred so far in meeting the Sixth Plan
macroeconomic targets and in implementing its policy recommendations will
probably not be recovered by 1986. It is unlikely therefore that medium-term
GDP annual growth will match the 6 to B percent rate achieved in the past. A
growth rate not exceeding 4 percent would be more commensurate with the need
to control current account deficits without a systematic recourse to
quantitative protection measures or excessive external borrowing. This 4
percent growth rate takes account of the projected stagnation or even decline
of hydrocarbon production. It also assumes that while agriculture will remain
sensitive to weather conditions, manufacturing will perform well as the full
impact of the export promotion policies is felt.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in utban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy
finwncial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
social services. On one hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly
aware of and sensitive to the issues of income distribution and the
Government's responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial
effects of past rapid expansion in social services, reflected in the
improvement of the country social data (see Annex I), have created a demand
for improved standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the
provision of adequate social services - education, health, town
infrastructure, housing - is being lacreasingly hampered by budgetary
constraints. Attempts to respond tn protect the workers by raising the levels
of minimum legal wages and social insurance has discouraged private business
Erom increasing employment.
17.     To reduce internal differences, in particular between rural and urban
areas and among workers in the modeia &ector and those precariously employed
in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources into
regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulare productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand. To reduce the financial burden of social services, the administration
is reviewing the cost structure of the various types of social services,
including free or below-cost delivery and the introduction of some user fees.
Special efforts are needed to improve social infrastructure management, in
particular as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities
in deprived zones will have to be asseosed carefully because costs for
servicing and maintaining ther could become rapidly prohibitive.
18.     External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was



-6-
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 10), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. Total public foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1983 reached $3.7 billion, equivalent to about 45
percent of GDP; according to preliminary estimates, it reached about $4.2
billion (52 percent of GDP) at the end of 1984. The relative burden of debt
servicing reached almost 22 percent in 1984. However, a relatively cautious
debt management policy has been followed by the Tunisian authorities. While
the share of short-term borrowings has increased slightly since 1980,
Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains overwhelmingly long and mediumrterm,
and debt service requirements are projected to increase only slowly. During
1978-82, 65 percent of foreign loan commitments were from official sources and
about 30 percent on concessional terms. Just over half of official
coumnitments came from bilateral sources (mainly France, Japan, the Federal
Republic of Germany and some Arab oil-producing countries), and about 24
percent each from the Bank Group and from other multilateral sources. Overall
borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 7.4 percent interest and 15.9 years
maturity, including a grace period of 4.2 years.
19.      In the mediumrterm, external capital requirements will clearly remain
manageable. In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years, and on developments in the hydrocarbon
sector. The Government's medium-term objective is to maintain the present
level of indebtedness; this prospect strongly depends on a timely
implementation of policy measures to accelerate exports, reduce public
investments, lower domestiL demand growth, and liberalize regulation and
controls. On this basis, the current account deficit is projected to
fluctuate around $630 million until 1986, but decline thereafter. New loan
commitments from abroad could be kept below $1.2 billion per year on average
(in current prices at the 1984 exchange rate), while net foreign borrowing
might average about $360 million between now and the early 1990s.
20.      Tunisia, after a decade of outstanding performance, is facing the
major challenge of adapting its economic structure at a time of external and
internal financial constraints. A strategy of demand restraint combined with
more liberal economic policies is called for to preserve the country's
financial stability and creditworthiness and, thus, its considerable long-term
growth potential. Considering its long record of prudent and skillful balance
of payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to assume
that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy changes, and remain
creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-six loans and ten
IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,387.0 million and $75.2 million (net
of cancellations) of which forty-one loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of March 31. 1985, overall disbursements amounted to about
50 percent of appraisal estimates, which is in line with experience in other
countries in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial
finance and port projects has generally been above the country average, while
longer than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and Eisheries projects, due to
project-specific problems that are being addressed through supervision
missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have
been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This adjustment process, as outlined in the
Sixth Development Plan, will require further diversification of exports,
greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer subsidies, gradual
liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger incentives to the
private sector particularly in agriculture and industry, while taking measures
to increase employment and target development to low-income groups. In
support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and which minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets this objective. In
addition to the above, proposed Ba.ik lenuing would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performance, development and conservation of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low-income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
23.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance. Within the
broad framework noted in para. 22, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the already approved Northwest Agricultural Production Project and Export
Industries Project, and this project, proposed lending in the next years would
include projects for irrigation, grain storage, a credit line for small-scale
industry, urban development, energy, and sector loans for agriculture and
industry.



-8-
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to
the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum-exporting to a petroleum-
importing country. This analysis, which was included in the special e-Onomic
report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued
through a number of studies. A mid-term performance review of the Sixth Plan
is being discussed with the Government, as are studies on industrial
employment creation and on the financial sector. A number of key studies
resulted from provisions in Bank loans, for example on the institutional and
incentive framework for electromechanical industries and for exports in
general. In time, the recommendations of these studies, and of those
currently in progress (industrial policy study, agricultural strategy paper)
will provide the basis for policy action programs. Further economic and
sector work includes studies of educational finance and administration,
housing finance, and a review of public enterprise performance.
25.      'The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from private
sources) was an estimated 14 percent, and their share in debt service during
1984 was 13 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed
external debt is expected to increase to 15 percent and their share in the
debt service to about 13.5 percent through 1986.
26.      As of March 31, 1985, IFC's net commitment in Tunisia totalled about
$14.0 million. IFC has invested in the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), in 1966, 1970, and 1978; in the National Bank for Tourism Development
(BNDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects; in the Societe Touristique
et Hoteliere (RYM), a large hotel development; in the Industries Chimiques du
kluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum fluoride from local fluorspar for export;
and in the Soci6t6 d'Etudes et de Developpement de Sousse-Nord for an
integrated tourism development project. In FY84, IFC approved two new equity
investme4s in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a project to privatize, rehabilitate and
expand an existing fluorspar mine; and (ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first
leasing company in Tunisia to provide financing to the industrial sector. IFC
is considering the following activities: (i) participation in an expansion
program under study by ICF; (ii) purchase of additional share capital under
expansion programs planned by BNDT and BDET; and (iii) at the Government's
request, privatization of certain state-owned industrial projects.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES
27.      The role of the sector in the economy.  Manufacturing industry has
been a relatively fast-growing sector. It is well diversified and has
contributed successfully to the Government's main economic objectives of
employment creation, attracting Eoreign investments and know-how, and
generating foreign exchange earnings to offset the decline in oil revenues.
In the long term, traditional exports, such as phosphate-based industries and
agricultural products, will offer only modest growth prospects- Also, the



-9-
size of the domestic market will provide only limited opportunities for
further import substitution. Manufacturing exports, particularly in EMI,
will be the principal instrument for creating additional employment,
stimulating growth and alleviating balance-of-payments problems.
28.      Structure and Performance.  In the 1960s and the 1970s the
manufacturing sector grew by 7.4 percent per annum and by 12 percent per
annum in real terms respectively. Growth stagnated in 1982, but resumed in
1983 and 1984 with rates of 8.2 percent and 9.4 percent in real terms.
Starting in the 1970s, and due largely to the Government's strong support,
the private sector became a major factor in fostering this growth.
Investment in manufacturing, representing 11.7 percent of total investments
in 1971, reached 22 percent in 1983. The public sector accounted for over
half of all investments in the sector and has concentrated its involvement in
chemicals (fertilizers), construction materials (cement) and agro-industries
(sugar). The private sector dominates textile and miscellaneous
nanufacturing industries. Employment creation has been one of the main
objectives of industrial policy and close to one fifth of the labor force is
engaged in Tunisia's manufacturing industries.
EMI Structure, Characteristics and Performance.
29.      Electrical and mechanical industries (EMI) form the link between
component/subassembly and end-product industries by providing the design, the
development and production technology of industrial parts and components.
They represent a crucial sector in Tunisia's industrial development. Almost
nonexistent twenty years ago, EMI grew by 18 percent p.a. in the 1960s, 13
perrert p.a. in the 1970s. and, in spite of a general slowdown in Tunisia's
economy, by about 10 percent p.a. during 1980-1984 as compared to 4.0 percent
p.a. for GDP and 7.9 percent p.a. for the manufacturing sector over the same
period. However, EMI are still underdeveloped; in 1984 they represented only
14 percent of industrial value added and 2.2 percent of GDP. This results
from the still important representation in the subsector of assembly
industries, which produce consumer and durable goods and rely to a large
extent on imported components. Consequently, the value added/output ratio
has remained low, at about 25 percent. EMI consist of about 65 percent of
small and medium-size enterprises with less than 50 workers and are dominated
by 18 large public enterprises accounting for over 50 percent of the sector's
output.
30.      Tunisian EMI can be classified in three categories:  (a) consumer
and durable goods industries (household appliances, automobile assembly)
account for 30 percent of total EMI output and cover about 43 percent of
domestic demand. These are end-product assembly enterprises relying heavily
on imported inputs; they are generally inefficient, capital-intensive and
weakly integrated; (b) intermediate goods industries (foundries, construction
rods, wires, pipes and parts) represent 30 percent of EMI output, cover about
40 percent of domestic demand, and rely more on local inputs. They use more
appropriate technologies, are generally more integrated, and in most cases
operate efficiently; and (c) capital goods industries represent 40 percent of
EMI output, and meet only 20 percent of domestic demand. They comprise



-10-
mainly steel and platework industries, ship repair yards, electrical and
agricultural machinery plants, and small diesel engine assemblies. Recently,
nonelectrical machinery, hoisting/lifting and earth-moving equipment and
agricultural machinery production lines have been added. These industries
use local inputs for up to 45 percent of output value and are
labor-intensive. Labor costs are equivalent to about one third of the
European average and thereby more than offset fiscal charges and the low
productivity of labor, and allow reasonable competitiveness.
EMI Potential and Development Strategy.
31.      Tunisia has a well trained labor force whose wages are still sub-
stantially below European levels; it has liberal investment policies with
regard to foreign and private i.ivestments and it is close to Europe and the
Arab Countries. This gives the couxtry a comparative advantage in efficient
import-substitution and export production of capital and intermediate goods,
particularly in subsectors using labor-intensive and simple or intermediate
technologies, where economies of scale are available at low levels of
production.
32.      The Government development strategy therefore aims at:  (i)
continuing the efforts to substitute imports of capital and intermediate
goods in particular with local production using simple and labor-intensive
technologies, and especially in areas where current local production meets
only a small fraction of local demand, and (ii) promoting the production of
capital and intermediate goods with export potential, especially where
production capacity constraints hold back output and where Tunisia's
comparative advantage is strong. Reflecting the priority given by the
Government to EMI development, investments allocated by the Sixth Plan
(1982-1986) amount to about $460 million or 24 percent of total manufacturing
investments, twice the amount allocated under the previous Plan period
(1977-1981). Sectoral allocations under the Plan to mechanical industries
(47 percent', steel structure and platework (20 percent), basic metals (17
percent) and electrical and electronic -products (11 percent), reflect the
strategy shift away from consumer and durable goods inta capital and
intermediate goods. So far, total realized investments have generally come
close to the planned level. The shortfall was mainly due to delays in
project implementation. While electrical industries have received larger
investments (16 percent) than planned, investment in mechanical industries
has been slightly lower (39 percent).
Industrial Sector Constraints
33.      To attain the full development and export potential in the
manufacturing sector, the Government would need to further address imbalances
in the relative factor costs of labor and capital and in the protection/
incentives structure on three major fronts. First, due to strong unions, the
cost of labor is rigidly determined and has been raised beyond productivity
increases in recent years. At the same time, negative deposit rates and
marginally positive lending rates in real terms have understated the economic
cost of capital. In certain instances, this imbalance has encouraged capital
intensive industries despite the considerable unemployment prevailing in the
country. Second, administered prices, import restrictions, tariff policy and



-11-
investment licensing practices have together encouraged noncompetitive
production in the domestic market and detracted from the export potential of
industry. Third, the present highly regulated industrial environment has not
been conducive to proper sectoral planning and intersectoral linkages.
34.      A study on effective protection in EMI, undertaken in the context of
the first EMI project (Loan No. 2113 of 1982), is substantially completed.
It provides a model for other sectoral and subsectoral studies which are
being carried out. The study establishes that capital/intermediate goods are
the least protected, whereas consumer/durable goods and vehicles are the
highest. The study also shows public EMIs to be less efficient than private
ones and, not surprisingly, export-oriented EMIs to be far more efficient
than domestic-oriented ones. The findings of the study were discussed in
December 1984 in a seminar attended by Government authorities and Bank
staff. The restructuring of the economic incentives system cannot be limited
to the EMI sector only, and must be integrated in the overall reform of
industrial policy, which is currently under study by the Government and the
Bank.
35.      The Financial Environment.  Tunisia's monetary system consists of
the Banque Centrale de Tunisie (BCT), ,en commercial banks and the postal
check system. The other financial institutions consist of eight operating
development banks, two savings organizations, eight portfolio management
companies, eight offshore banks and five foreign bank representative
offices. The stock and bond exchange is in an early stage of development.
The commercial banks, which are essentially deposit-retail banks, are small
by international standards. As of August 1984, the total assets of all
commercial banks did not exceed about $3.6 billion. Commercial banks can
provide short- and medium-term loans up to a maximum of seven years. Loans
over seven years are exceptional and can only be provided by commercial banks
from special resources (i.e., nondeposits), which must have a maturity of
more than seven years. However, credits over seven years can be made to
public enterprises from regular commercial bank resources as long as these
credits do not exceed 3 percent of total Ueposits of the bank in question.
36.      Until 1980, the Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
and the Baaque Nationale de Developpement Touristique (BNDT) were the only
institutions specialized in long-term financing of industry and tourism.
Since then, several new development banks have been created. Three of these
are special-purpose banks (agriculture, bilateral ventures). Five others,
namely Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de D6veloppement (BTKD), the Societe
Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement zt de Developpement (STUSID), the Banque
de Tunisie et des Emirats d'Investissements (BTEI), the Banque Tuniso-Qatarie
d'Investissements (BTQI) and a recently created Tuniso-Bahraini bank, are
joint-ventures between Tunisia and other Arab countries. A Tuniso-Senegalese
and Tuniso-Italian development bank have also been established. In
comparison with the commercial banks, these banks have relatively large share
capitals, which have been subscribed equally between Tunisia and the
respective foreign partners. Long-term lending to industry is provided
essentially by the development banks, which have been created for this
purpose. They have or are developing the capability to appraise, supervise
and promote industrial ventures in all industrial subsectors. Commercial
banks do not have the incentive and resource base to enter into long-term
lending. They provide mostly short- and medium-term credit and only under
exceptional circumstances long-term credit. There is thus a clear division
of focus between commercial and development banks.



-12-
37.      Financial Policy Issues.  In the past, interest rates on deposits
have geneally been negative in real terms. The Government is focussing on
the overall effective interest rate both in regard to deposits and lending in
the context of a Financial Sector Study which has been complh'ed and is being
discussed. This Study proposes an overall upward adjustment in the structure
of interest rates together with a simplification and harmonization of the
complex existing structure. It also proposes the introduction of a more
flexible interest rate system, so as to allow rates to be adjusted more
frequently in relation to changes in the liquidity situation, the domestic
inflation rate and interest rates abroad. In April 1985, the Government
undertook as a first step certain reforms, inter alia, adjusting most
interest rates on lending upwards by between 1 and 3 percent and on deposits
by 1 percent. In addition the term structure has become somewhat simpler as
most short and medium-term financing rates now have a uniform rate rather
than maximum and minimum rates.  Special savings accounts rates now range
between 6.75 to 9.75 percent p.a.; certificates of deposit and long-term
accounts' rates now range between 5.5 to 10.5 percent p.a. With inflation
currently at around 9 perrPnt:. the real rates are beginning to become
positive. While Tunisia's interest rates have been relatively low in
comparison with interest rates abroad, particularly those prevailing in the
international market, savings as a percentage of GDP have remained relatively
stable mainly due to income effects arising from substantial wage increases
in the last few years. The relatively low interest rates on commercial-bank
deposits have kept the average cost of funds for these banks at about 6
percent, taking into account that sight deposits, which constitute between 55
percent and 60 percent of banks' resources, are remunerated at the rate of 1
-ercent for enterprises and 2 percent for individuals. Development banks on
the other hand cannot accept deposits and depend largely on the international
market for raising resources. BDET has raised $60 million in 1983 from the
international market, and its average cost of borrowing has increased to
about 8.5 percent p.a. Its marginal cost has increased to about 11 percent
p.a.
38.      Commercial banks now will make medium-term loans to industry at the
rate of about 11.5 percent, which allows them a financial spread of about 4
percent. The nominal average rate BDET presently charges for its new loans
now stands at about 12.0 percent. However, given the small proportion of new
higher interest loans in the total portfolio, the average rate on lending
remains about 10 percent p.a. The difference between BDET's average
effective borrowing and lending costs attains 2 percent when taking into
consideration the amounts of Government reimbursements for foreign currency
losses on borrowings. Continuing focus on the development banks' interest
rate is necessary. The Bank and BDET, BTKD and STUSID will annually review
the interest rates and structure of BDET, BTKD and STUSID in the light of
their average cost of capital, administrative costs and the general evolution
of interest rates, and, after such reviews, all necessary measures shall be
taken by the development banks to achieve a reasonable spread (2 percent)
permitting the establishment of sufficient reserves and provisions and a
reasonable return on capital- The Government agreed that the development
banks shall be allowed to take the measures to attain such objectives. (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.03; Project Agreement, Section 4.10). BDET, BTKD and
STUSID shall review with the Bank at the same time as the interest rate



-13-
review the resource needs of the development banks for the following year
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.06; Project Agreement, Section 4.11). For 1985
and 1986, undertakings have been reached, and a plan has been developed, to
meet the resource needs.
39.      Foreign Exchange Risk.  In the past, the Government carried the
foreign exchange risk on the foreign borrowings of BDET. Until 1981, the
Dinar appreciated in relation to the basket of currencies used for evaluation
and over a period of ten years the overall result has been positive. Since
1981, however, the situation of the Tunisian Dinar has changed, particularly
vis-a-vis the dollar, and, as of December 31, 1984, BDET had incurred foreign
currency losses oE about $4.0 million on account of interest payments in
foreign currency and about $19.5 million on account of payments of principal
in foreign currency. Although the Government, under the provisions of Loan
2113, is required to reimburse BDET for such losses, certain arrears have
accumulated. The Government has undertaken to reimburse BDET for losses
still outstanding on account of payment of principal on foreign currency
borrowings up to December 31, 1983 (ahniit $13.2 million). The Government has
also undertaken to reimburse BDET for losses in 1984 (about $10.6 million) by
the end of 1986. For the future, the Financial Sector Study has proposed new
principles to cover foreign currency risks in relation to the risk of
devaluation of a particular currency. A study by the Government on
alternatives for foreign exchange risk coverage is underway. Agreement has
been reached with the Government on completion and review with the Bank of
such study by March 31, 1986. The results of the recommendations of the
study will be applied, by the development banks, to subborrowers (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.04 and Schedule 5; Project Agreement, Schedule 1).
Bank Role in the Manufacturing Sector
40.      Through its loans to the manufacturing industries, the Bank aims at
promoting industrial decentralization, export diversification and
labor-intensive industries in support of the Government's high priority
objectives. The Bank has made two direct loans to industry: Loan 2012 of
1981 is helping to improve public sector textile operations and loan 2301 of
1983 is helping to modernize and expand a large foundry. Bank assistance was
otherwise channeled mostly through BDET, which benefitted, as of December 31,
1984, from eight operations totalling $129.2 million (net of cancellations),
of which $14.9 million remained undisbursed as of January 31, 1985. These
Bank loans have contributed to BDET's institutional growth and have confirmed
BDET's role as a catalyst in mobilizing resources for private investment,
specifically in the manufacturing sector. Through its representative on
BDET's Board, IFC has offered a substantial contribution in this regard. The
Project Performance Audit Report of September 1981 on Loans 648, 798, and
881, covering the third (1969), fourth (1972) and fifth (1973) loans to BDET,
concluded that considerable progress had been made in terms of institution
building and management performance, and that these loans had contributed to
changing BDETts role from a supplier of equity funds for public sector
industries, to that of financier and advisor of private investors. The
seventh loan to BDET (Loan 1504 of 1978) included a credit line for a pilot
Small-Scale Industries (SSI) scheme (Loan 1505 of 1978) which prepared the
ground for a $30 million loan to ss5 through commercial banks and BDET as



-14-
intermediaries (Loan 1969 of 1981). Implementation of ongoing projects is
proceeding satisfactorily. BDET has been the channel for the Bank loan (Loan
2113 of 1982) for a first EMI project. Commitments under the credit line for
this project are nearly on target, suffering from a delay in the ratification
of the loan documents by the Tunisian parliament, and it is expected that the
credit line will be fully committed by about June 1985. The project also
helped establish a technical center for support to EMI entrepreneurs, the
Centre Technique des Industries Hecaniques et Electriques (CETIME) and a
national standardization institute, the Institut National de la Normalisation
et de la Propriete Industrielle (INNORPI). On April 25, 1985, a $50 million
Export Industries project was approved, which consists of a credit line for
export projects to BDET ($20.0 million equivalent), to Banque
Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD) ($15.0 million equivalent) and to
Soci6te Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de D6veloppement (STUSID)
($15.0 million equivalent).
41.      CETIME is an autonomous public institution governed by a board on
which 4 out of the 9 members, including the chairman, are representatives Gf
the EMI private sector. CETIME is well managed, has a qualified staff of
about 15 professionals and 10 technicians, assisted by foreign consultants
where local expertise needs to be built up. It is divided in four sectors:
machinery, welding, electricity and quality control and development. In
1983-1984, about 45 technical assistance projects were undertaken. Clients
are billed for services and by 1985 billings should cover about 50 percent of
operating costs. By getting CETIME involved in the early stages of EMI
entrepreneurial development, EMIs could benefit from CETIME's technical
advice. The development banks have, during negotiations, committed
themselves to involve CETIME in project identification, appraisal and
supervision each time CETIME could make a contribution. Under this project,
CETIME will expand its activities in mechanics, metal tools for foundries and
eLectronics (see para. 71). INNORPI, an autonomous public institution, is,
since its creation in the framework of the first EMI project, responsible, in
cooperation with manufacturers, for preparing standards, and, in a second
stage, for promoting quality through delivering certificates of conformity
that meet these standards. INNORPI is well managed and has a staff of about
55 able professionals, assisted when necessary by foreign experts. It has
developed about 30 standards per year with EMI as a priority development
area. INNORPI is now ready to move into delivery of certificates of
conformity, which will increase the export potential of goods as well as
intrasectoral integration, and will earn INNORPI revenue to support further
standards development work.  Support for this expansion is included in the
project (para. 72).
42.      The project is a follow-up of the successful first EMI project.
Maintaining the growth of manufacturing industry, and EMI specifically, is
critical to sustain output and export earnings and to alleviate
unemployment. This further growth is contingent on the country's ability to
raise long-term resources for that sector. Through the Export Industries
project, this project and a scheduled Small Scale Industry project (FY87) the
Bank will support targeted resource needs in the industrial sector. The



-15-
project, as in the first EMI project, is limited to private sector EMI in
priority (intermediate and capital goods) subsectors, with projects having an
ERR of not less than 10 percent and an FRR of not less than 12 percent.
Through this project the Bank continues supporting the high priority the
Government attaches to further EMI development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      Background.  The project was identified in May l984 and prepared by
the Government with Bank assistance. It was appraised in December 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 22 to April 26, 1985.
The Tunisian Delegation was led by the Director-General of Projects of the
Ministry of Planning and included representatives of the Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de
Developpement (BTKD), the Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de
Developpement (STUSID), the Centre Technique des Industries Mecaniques et
Electriques (CETIME), the Institut National de la Normalisation et de la
Propriete Industrielle (INNORPI), the Central Bank (BCT) and the Ministry of
Finance.
44.      Project Objectives and Content.  The objective of the project is to
assist the Government in the continuing development of Tunisia's electrical
and mechanical industries (EMI) through a line of credit to BDET, BTKD and
STUSID. The project also provides an equipment and technical assistance
package to CETIME to enable this institution to expand its services to
entrepreneurs in the mechanics, metal tools for foundries and electronics
subsectors. Finally, it provides testing and control equipment and technical
assistance to INNORPI to enable this institution to expand its services from
technical standards formulation to the testing and certification of
instruments and equipment.
Tne Development Banks
45.      Three institutions will be financial intermediaries under the
project: BDET, BTKD and STUSID. BDET is the country's leading development
bank. BTKD and STUSID, two of the new development banks which were already
selected in the Export Industries Project, were chosen as intermediaries
under this project in response to the Government's request. BTKD and STUSID
have already given priority to EMI projects in the past, and the proposed
Bank loan has led them to identify additional viable EMI projects. BTKD and
STUSID attach great importance to the relation with the Bank because of the
support it provides their overall bank policies and practices, and more
specifically, on appropriate project appraisal/supervision methodology and
standards. Detailed descriptions and analyses of the organization,
operations, financial position and resource requirements of BDET, BTKD and
STUSID are presented below.
A. Banque de D6veloppement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET)
46.      BDET is well known to the Bank since its creation in 1959.  As of
December 31, 1984, the Bank has provided altogether $129.2 million (net of
cancellations) in eight operations. The institution is well managed and has
a competent staff.



-16-
47.      Operations and Portfolio.  BDET's approvals almost doubled between
1980 and 1982. In the 1980-1984 period, 72 percent of BDET's approvals were
for new projects; 86 percent of these new projects were in the private
sector. Operations are well-distributed over the several sectors and regions
of the country. As of December 31, 1984, BDET's portfolio comprised loans
(for about $232.0 million) and equity participations (for about $31.0
million). Seventy-five percent of the loans went to industries, with
agro-industries, construction materials, EMI, textiles and chemicals being
the most important sectors. As of December 31, 1984 BDET's arrears over
three months amounted to about $14.2 million equivalent, or about 6.1 percent
of the outstanding loan portfolio against 4.2 percent on December 31, 1983.
Forty-six percent of the total arrears (arrears over TD 100,000) are
concentrated in 2. companies, most of which are public, the remainder being
primarily in the tourism industry. BDET has begun an action program to
address the arrears of these companies. During negotiations, BDET and che
Bank have analysed the arrears situation and BDET has committed itself to
reduce arrears to the level of 1983 by the end of 1986. The Bank will
closely monitor BDET's overall arrears position and quarterly reporting was
agreed upon to permit the Bank to stay ahreast of future developments.
48.      Financial Position.  During thp 1980-1984 period, assets increased
by an average rate of 21.3 percent per year, reflecting the general growth of
industrial investments in Tunisia. BDET's share capital was increased from
TD 10 million to TD 20 million in 1982/83, partly hy incorporating reserves.
BDET's debt-equity ratio of 5:1 on December 31, 1984 remains well below the
maximum 8:1 allowed under previous Loan Agreements. BDET expects to
consolidate its short-term debt in 1985 thro.Lgh medium-term loans in the
international market. The 1980-84 period has witnessed a decline in the
profitability of BDET, as measured by return on net worth, due to the high
cost of foreign resources and the large capital increase during this period.
49.      Projected Operations and Finance.  Based on its pipeline of
applications, BDET should be able to meet its target of about $66 million
lending per annum during 1985-1988. These projections are conservative and
reflect BDET's intention to scale down its exposure in tourism. During this
period, interest income is projected to increase by about 11.0 percent on
average per year reflecting the increases in interest rates already effected
and planned for the next years. The average interest rate on outstanding
loan portfolio was 8.4 percent in 1981 and 8.9 percent in 1983; it is
projected to increase to 10.3 percent in 1986. Borrowing costs are expected
to ircrease less: the average cost of new borrowing is projected at about
9.5 percent while the cost of existing debt will remain at about 8.3
percent. BDET's return on equity is projected to increase from 6.8 percent
in 1984 to 8.9 percent in 1988. Under these conditions, BDET's profitability
will permit payment of reasonable (8 percent) dividends, and the build-up of
adequate reserves and provisions, while permitting the phasing out of the
Government compensation by 1986. BDET is planning further increases in share
capital from TD 20 million in 1983 to TD 30 million by 1986. Long-term debt
is expected to increase by about $ 97.5 million from 1985 to 1988 but the
debt-equity ratio will remain at the reasonable level of about 5:1. BDET's
debt-equity ratio will not exceed 8:1 (Project Agreement, Section 4.04), and
the debt service coverage ratio would be satisfactory at around 1.1.



-17-
50.      Resource Requirements.  At the end of 1984, IBRD loans constituted
about 24 percent of total foreign exchange borrowings and about 17 percent of
BDET's total resources. For the 1985-1988 period, resource requirements are
forecast at $276 million of which about $170 million would be in foreign
exchange. The foreign exchange requirements would be covered by borrowing in
the international market and from bilateral and multilateral sources. BDET's
local resource gap would be covered by increased access to the local market
and rediscount facilities of BCT.
51.      Organization and Staffing.  BDET employs 73 professional staff, 27
of which are in project promotion and appraisal. While a large number of
staff are employed in administrative departments, it is expected that
following a planned reorganization of these departments many administrative
staff will be shifted to operational departments. BDET has been recruiting
new professional staff to replenish its ranks after losing staff to the new
development banks and industrial enterprises. Nevertheless, on the basis of
its experience, the availability of a large number of project files,
knowledge of the economy and its technical and financial know-how, BDET is
able to process a relatively large number of project applications quickly.
Weaknesses, however, remain in project supervision. To overcome these
weaknesses, BDET has implemented in 1984 a satisfactory supervision and
reporting program with Bank assistance. During negotiations, understandings
have been confirmed to maintain satisfactory supervision and reporting in the
future, especially as regards arrears and rescheduling.
B. Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD)
52.      BTKD was created in 1981.  It aims at identifying, promoting and
financing economically and financially viable projects in all sectors of
economic activity in Tunisia and abroad, and to develop economic and
financial relations between Tunisia and Kuwait and other Arab and African
countries. Its share capital of TD 100 million (about $120 million at the
present exchange rate) is equally divided between the two countries. BTKD
can take equity participations, make loans, give guarantees and provide all
types of banking services including the acceptance of deposits from abroad.
However, it cannot accept domestic deposits.
53.      Organization and Staffing.  BTKD has a 10-member Board of
Directors. A General Manager who is an experienced development banker is in
charge of operations. BTKD is organized in five departments: Promotion,
Appraisal/Follow-up, Equity Participation/Representation, Controllers/
Treasury and Administration. As of December 31, 1984, BTKD had a staff of
74, 30 of whom being professional staff. BTKD is well managed and its staff
is competent.
54-      Operations.  BTKD generally finances projects with an investment
cost of at least about $1.2 million. As a general principle it intends to
invest 60 percent of its operations in industry, 20 percent in agriculture,
15 percent in tourism and 5 percent in other sectors. BTKD is particularly
interested in technologically advanced projects. Its equity participations



-18-
are limited to 50 percent of BTKD's net worth. It cannot normally take more
than 15 percent of a firm's share capital, unless BTKD is the promoter of a
company and lead financier, in which case its participation can go up to 30
percent. Its maximum exposure in a single company is limited to 10 percent
of its own net worth or 15 percent when BTKD in the project promotor. BTKD
charges 12 percent per year for loans up to 11 years, rising to 13 percent
for loans with maximum durations of 15 years. These rates are revised from
time to time.  The financial, technical and market analysis under BTKD
appraisals is of satisfactory quality; however, in the first years, BTKD has
relied on reports of other institutions for a comprehensive assessment of the
economic returns. Also, efforts with respect to supervision have been
modest. To strengthen these, BTKD has prepared a satisfactory plan and
understandings have been reached as to satisfactory procedures for future
supervision and reporting.
55.      Portfolio.  As of September 30, 1984, BTKD had approved loan and
equity operations for 138 projects for a total amount of about $282 million,
of which about 17 percent is in equity participations. Commitments amounted
to about $182.0 million, while disbursements up to September 30, 1984
totalled about $129.0 million. As of September 30, 1984, loans in arrears
amounted to about $0.68 million, however, BTKD is making satisfactory
provisions for portfolio losses.
56.      Financial Position.  BTKD's financial position is sound.
Seventy-five percent of its share capital has been paid in, and the remainder
is to be paid in during 1985. The company made a net profit of about $5.9
million in 1983 and about $8.0 million for 1984, which is considered
satisfactory. The return on average equity in 1983 and 1984 (preliminary)
was 8 and 8.8 percent respectively. In accordance with BTKD's policy
statement, a maximum debt-equity ratio of 4:1 would be maintained (Project
Agreement, Section 4.06). BTKD's financial policies as stipulated in its
Policy Statement are considered satisfactory.
57.      Projected Operations and Finance.  BTKD's loan and equity approval
level was about $60 million in 1984, and loan approvals will grow from 1985
by about $12 million per year. BTKD's equity investment will correspond to
about one fifth of total approvals. On this basis, commitments for the
1985-1988 period are projected at about $314 million.
58.      Resource Requirements.  Overall, BTKD's resource requirements for
1985-1988 are about $378 million of which about $209 million in foreign
exchange. Foreign currency requirements are expected to be covered by share
capital increases from foreign partners and through recourse to the
international market. Local currency resource requirements are expected to
be covered by cash generation, loan collections and share capital increases.
Resources have been identified for a substantial part of the foreign exchange
requirements. The proposed subloan would help cover part of the remaining
foreign exchange needs.
C. Societ6 Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement (STUSID)
59.      STUSID was created in 1981.  Its main objectives are to promote and
finance industrial, tourism, agricultural and other economically and
financially viable projects in Tunisia, and to mobilize capital abroad for



-19-
these projects. The company has a share capital of TD 100 million, equally
divided between the two countries. STUSID can take equity participations,
make loans, provide guarantees and give technical assistance. STUSID charges
12 percent for loans up tc 11 vears and 13 percent for loans up to 15 years.
STUSID focuses on projects with a favorable impact on the balance of payments
and employment. It also focuses on large projects with investments over $2.4
million for industrial projects and over $3.6 million for other projects.
Equity participation in projects is considered important and in practice
STUSID provides its financial assistance in the form of equity and loans in
the ratio of 1:2. STUSID's financial and operational policies, as detailed
in its Policy Statement, are satisfactory. The company has put in place
satisfactory appraisal and supervision procedures and reporting methods that
emphasize financial, economic, and technical criteria. Understandings have
been reached to maintain satisfactory future supervision and reporting
procedures.
60.      Organization and Staffing.  STUSID has a 10-member Board of
Directors. It is managed by an experienced and able Executive Officer.
STUSID has se"en departments: Planning/Follow-up, Industry, Tourism,
Agriculture/Agro-industry, Promotion, Administration and Finance. STUSID has
recruited about 45 professional staff since it started operations. STUSID is
well-managed and its staff is competent.
61.      Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1984, STUSID had approved 99 projects
for a total amount of about $190 million, of which about one-third is in
equity participations. Commitments amounted to about $110 million while
disbursements were about $74 million. A considerable number of projects are
joint-ventures where STUSID has attrarr-d capital from Arab and other sources
and obtained technical or marketing experience for projects. About 63
percent of STUSID's approvals were for the industrial sector, and about 31
percent of those were for EMI projects. There are no arrears, however,
STUSID is making adequate provisions for eventual portfolio losses.
62.      Financial Position.  STUSID's financial position is sound.  Seventy
percent of its capital is paid in, the remainder to be paid in over the next
two years. The company made profits nf about $4.1 million in 1983 and about
$5.5 million for 1984. This translates into a return on average net worth of
about 5.9 and 6.5 percent for 1983 and 1984 (preliminary), respectively. In
accordance with its policy statement, a maximum debt-equity ratio of 4:1
would be maintained (Project Agreement, Section 4.06). STUSID's financial
policies are satisfactory.
63.      Projected Operations and Finance.  STUSID's loan approvals are
projected to grow gradually from about $25.5 million in 1984 to about $46
million in 1988. Equity participations are forecast to remain at about
one-third of total approvals. Commitments for the 1985-1988 period are
projected at about $203.0 million. STUSID's projected income statements shlow
lower levels of profitability than BTKD, mainly due to STUSID's significant
equity participation portfolio on which returns are uncertain and generally
low in the early years. As agreed by its shareholders, STUSID would not
distribute dividends in the foreseeable future. The debt:equity ratio is
expected to be below 1:1 until 1988 and the debt:service ratio is projected
to be satisfactory.



-20-
64.      Resource requirements.  STUSID's resource position for 1985-1988
shows a requirement of about $216 million, $129 million of which is in
foreign exchange. Foreign currency requirements would be covered by share
capital increases, from foreign partners and through recourse to the
international market. The proposed Bank subloan would help STUSID raise
other resour^es in the international market. Local currency requirements are
expected to be covered by cash generation, loan collections and share capital
increases.
Implementation of the Project
65.      Onlending Arrangements.  Out of a $54.0 million equivalent loan, the
Government would onlend $20.0 million equivalent to BDET and $15.0 million
equivalent each to BTKD and STUSID, in Dinars at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule 5). The signing of satisfactory
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and BDET, BTKD and STUSID
would be a special condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01). BDET, BTKD and STUSID would repay their loans according to a
composite amortization schedule of the subloans financed by the subsidiary
loans. $2.1 million equivalent would be made available to CETIME and $1.9
million equivalent would be made available to INNORPI through budgetary
allocations to finance the expansion of the services of these institutions.
66.      Lending Targets for EMI Projects.  For the 1986-1988 period, BDET
expects to approve a total of about $53.9 million equivalent for EMI
projects, while BTKD's pipeline of EMI projects will require a total of about
$42 million equivalent and STUSID's about $38.5 million equivalent. In terms
of total projected approvals, the proposed loan would cover about 37 percent
of BDET's total requirements, about 35 percent of BTKD's total requirements
and about 38 percent of STUSID's total requirements over 1985-1988.
Eligibility Criteria for EMI Projects and Terms of Subloans.
67.      The proposed loan would finance the foreign currency cost of goods,
works and services for eligible EMI projects. To be eligible, EMI projects
would have to: (i) be in the private sector, i.e. involve enterprises in
which the Government holds, directly or indirectly, less than 50 percent of
equity; (ii) have a total investment cost of less than $20.0 million
equivalent; (iii) be in priority subsectors, i.e. a sector of industrial
activity producing nonconsumer electrical and mechanical products having a
tariff duty protection of 18 percent or less of the value of imported
products (or, in the case of the steel structure and platework subsector, a
tariff duty protection of 21 percent or less); and (iv) meet the test of an
FRR and ERR of 12 and 10 percent minimum, respectively. Subloans would carry
an interest rate of at least 12 percent per annum. This would ensure the
development banks a spread of more than 2 percent initially. Taking into
account projected inflation in Tunisia (9 percent annually projected for the
implementation time period), the interest rate would be positive in real
terms. The maximum term of a subloan would be 14 years including a maximum
of 3 years of grace.



-21-
Subloan commitments would be completed by June 30, 1989. The Loan Closing
Date would be June 30, 1992.
68.      BDET's maximum exposure in a single enterprise will remain, as per
its policy statement, at 25 percent of BDET's consolidated capital and
surplus; this exposure limit will be fixed at 15 percent for BTKD and STUSID
in accordance with their policy statements. To ensure that the proceeds of
the proposed loan will be used for a large number of projects, these proceeds
will be limited to a maximum of $2 million per individual subloan. A free
limit of $0.75 million equivalent would be granted after the first three
subloans would have been agreed upon. Subproject appraisal reports shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. To ensure that subprojects do not depend on
excessive domestic protection for their profitability, each subproject
appraisal report would describe the relevant protection environment and the
projected profitability.
69.      Procurement and Disbursement under Subloans.  Procurement for the
loan will follow the normal procedures used in development finance projects
and the main responsibility for supervising the subborrowers' procurement
will rest with BDET, BTKD and STUSID, respectively. The procurement
procedures of these three institutions have been reviewed during appraisal
and have been found satisractory. They require, in particular, subborrowers
to obtain at least three price quotations from suppliers/manufacturers. The
Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the cost of directly
imported goods, 70 percent of the price of goods previously imported, 60
percent of the cost of construction work, and the justified cost of imported
inputs integrated in goods manufactured in Tunisia. Disbursements would be
made on the basis of standard documentation as described in the Bank's
disbursement procedures, except for expenditures below $20,000 which would be
made against statements of expenditure.
70.      Protection Measures for EMI.  A set of policy measures specifically
geared to EMI are continued under this project from the first EMI project,
and an additional measure aimed at improving the efficiency and
competitiveness of the subsector has been agreed upon by the Government (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.07). For all EMI products in priority (i.e.,non-
consumer product producing) sub-sectors . tariff duties are allowed up to 18
percent (21 percent for steel structure and platework products). For all EMI
products protected by quantitative restrictions, the manufacturer would be
obliged during the first three years of production to price products not
exceeding 118 percent (or 121 percent for the steel structure and platework
subsector) of the international reference price. If, after the third year,
the above maximum price could not be maintained by the manufacturer, the
Government would start authorizing imports of competitive goods, representing
an increasing fraction of local demand. However, for all new EMI priority
sub-sector products manufactured for the first time in Tunisia and financed
in the framework of this line of credit, only tariff protection at a maximum
of 18 (or 21 for tiie steel structure and platework sub-sectors) percent would
be allowed, and such goods would be placed under a free-import administrative
regime, save in exceptional cases, identified and evaluated by a development
bank in consultation with the Bank. After such evaluation, other protection
could be granted, but only for a period of five years from the date of first
production of the product.



-22-
Assictance to CETIME and INNORPI
71.      CETIME has performed well under the first EMI project and is now
ready to expand its services by opening a mechanics laboratory and by the
creation of a section dealing with metal tools for foundries and of a section
dealing with electronics. To support this expansion, the project would
finance equipment and nine man-years of consultant services to support and
train CETIME staff. The employment by CETIME of at least two experts is a
condition of disbursement of the technical assistance component (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1).
72.      INNORPI is now ready to go beyond developing standards aii- prov;'e
testing, control and measuring services and the certificaLiuLI ot prod--;t.s in
the EMI sector, which would enhance the quality and the export pote-Lial of
such products. To do this, this project would assist in setting lip a
metrology section and an EMI laboratory through the provision or equipment
and technical assistance of 30 man-weeks over - years to support quality
audits, quality management and trainitig of IrwORPI staff. The employment by
INNORPI of at least one expert is a condit4on of disbursement of the
technical assistance component (Loaq Agreement, Schedule 1). Consultants
financed under the Bank loan would be selected in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Because of the specialized nature of the equipment involved,
CETIME and INNORPI would procure such equipment by obtaining and comparing
quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The Bank would
finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent of local
expenditures for equipment and technical assistance.
73.     Audits.  BDET, BTKD, STUSID, CETIME and INNORPI would have their
annual accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
furnaish audit reports to the Bank within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
74.     The project will assist in the further development of EMIs,
increasing output and foreign exchange earnings. Through realizing part of
the country's potential in EMI development, this financing would help better
integration, thus contributing to the strengthening of this priority
subsector. Simultaneously, the project should help alleviate some of the
pressure on the country's balance of payments, since some import substitution
should result from the development of EMIs in the country, and therefore, a
lesser share of the country's consumption of EMI goods will need to be met by
imports in the future. Also, the country should be able to expand further
its exports in a number of EMI subsectors, thus increasing the inflow of
foreign currency. The project will continue institution building efforts
with BDET and would act as a catalyst in securing resources from financial
markets. The project would contribute in a significant manner to strengthen
further the recently created development banks in project appraisal and
supervision. Secondly, it would strengthen CETIME, and through CETIME's
growth, help disseminate technical know-how throughout the EMI sector. At



-23-
the same time, INNORPI's activities will foster better sectoral integration
and expanded exports, by gradually establishing a steady concern for quality
and a trustworthy quality label.
75.      The project presents no special risks.  However, a shortfall in
demand for EMI products, especially in EMI exports, could affect EMI
investments. Nevertheless, the performance of the EMI sector in the last few
years is encouraging and testifies to the ability of local entrepreneurs to
realistically identify opportunities and secure their share of identified
markets. On balance, therefore, the risk appears reasonable and well worth
taking in relation to potential benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.      The draft Loan Agreement Latween the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BDET, BTKD and STUSID,
and the Report of the Committee provided in Article TII, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the
Bank between the Government and BDET, BTKD and STUSID, would be a special
condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01), and the employment
of at least two experts by CETIME and at least one exnert by INNORPI would be
conditions of disbursement for the technical assistance component (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1).
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.      I recomm end that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 3, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
T A B LE S3A
TUNISIA           -SOCL L INDICATOIS IDATA SIHT
UNSAy                               ICERENCE CWOUPS (f91CTD AVERAGS) /
MOST                (HOST RECENT -SE.2iU) a
mtcar         NIUOL  INCOME 1        t&aO  IteM
196a4b-    19701-1!  EISTIHaTtW1   P. AFRICA G HID EAST    AT. flAX *-.& CAR
AREA (DU       E   Ell)
TOTAL                               163.6      163.6        :63.6
ACRICULTURAL                        68.1        70.3         72.2
CII mn CPITA (DSS)                    210.0       340.0       3190.0            1169.6                 210U.6
WnSE= COUEIIPTOU PE CAPITA
(X:LOCRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)       119.0      230.0       497.0              b22.1                  995.5
OPiTan ANlD VrTAL ETATTSErCS
POPULATION.IID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    4221.0     5121.0       6683.0
URBAN POPUlATION (2 or TOTAL)       36.0        43.5        53.6               U8.2                    6.S
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 200D (KILL)                             10.0
STATIONARY POPULATION CHILL)                               18.8
PoPuLATION NOMENTIM                                         1-8*
POPULATIIl DRNSITY
PER SQ. IE.                       25.8        31.3         39.9              36.3                   35.7
PER SQ. IEN. ACRS. LAND           61.4        72.9        90.3              461.7                   92.4
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                          43.4       46.2         39.9              43.6                   39.9
15-64 YRS                         52.5        50.0        56.2               53.1                    6.0
65 AND ABOVE                        4.2        1.8          3.8               3.3                    4.1
POPIUATZON CR0111 IRATF
TOTAL                               1.6 /e     1.5 Ie       Z.2 /e            2.8                    2.4
URAN"                              3.2         1.5         3.9                6.5                    3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER    ;          46.6        39.4        33.9               40.4                   31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THit5          19.1       14.3         9.2               11.5                    8.3
GROSS REP .OULTlION RATE              3. 5       3.2         2.1                2.8                    2.0
FAUILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..       29.2        180.9 /d
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WIDF)                 ..              41.0 7             22.2                   40.3
OOD ASD NRIrTrO
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       97.0        96.0        128.0              97.3                  114.3
PER CAPITA RUPPLY o0
CALORiES   or REQUIRDIENTS)       83.0        88.0        1!6.0             110.8                  110.6
PROTT.-  :-q PER DAY)             5Z.0        57.0        74.0               70.1 J.3
O-          AL AND PULSE         13.0       14.0         23.0 L!           17.6                   34.1
CHILD    -      'EATH RATE          36.1        2%.0         6.0               14.6                    5.7
LIFE REPEC:. B. BIRTN (YEARS)       48.3        53.0        61.1               57.5                   64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      158.9       121.0        65.0              101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                               *'        49.0         70.0 /1           59.7                   65.6
URPBAN                              ..          ..        91.0 JR            84.5                   78.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        46.0 /g            38.4                   46.2
ACCESS rO EXCRETA DISPOSAI
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .        62.0          ..                 ..                   52.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0        42.0                 ..                   67.0
RURAL                               .         34.0          ..                 ..                   24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIA          10030.0      5930.0      3690.0             4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               ..       730.0       890.0             1831.1                  815.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            410.0       610.0        460.0 /d          632.9                  367.2
URBAN                            230.0 /b   310.0        35O.0 7-i          U5A5                   411.5
RURAL                            1040.0 7i   1270.0      1230.0oW          2513.5                 2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..        24.1        25.0 It            26.2                   27.3
HOInD
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                          5.3I1        5.5/Ik
-   URIIAN                          *-         si /        5.5
RUiAL                               '51 SIf                5.6W
AERAGE  NO. OF PERSONSIROCI
TOTAL                               ..         3.2L/       3.1 /k
uBN                                 ..         2.7f        2.6.                       
ReRAL                               *-         3.5         3.8-
ACCESS TO ELECT. (E OF ILLIGS)
TOTAL                               ''        24.0 U      34.2 /t            46.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        68.2 7k-           77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..         6.0 W             16.1



25  -                                                  ANNEX  I
-                         ~                       Page 2 of 6
T AS LE  3A
TUNISIXA               - SOCIAL llDICATORU DATA BMIEW
TUNESXA                              RERNCE GROUPS WZIKD AVERAGES) 
KOST               t(pBT RECENT ESTMAT)  k
RECENTS        MIXDDLE X              INCOD
196igk    19701k    ES-TIATE/k   W. AFRICA &  IMD AST    LAY. AMEICA & CAR
EDCATION
ADJUSTeD ENROLZMNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   66.0       101.0        106.0              88.3                  103.4
MALE                    88.0       121.0       119.0              102.5                  106.3
PEIALE                  43.0        60.0        92.0              73.6                   104.5
SECODARY  TOtAL                   12.0        23.0         30.0              43.0                   43.2
MALE                    19.0        33.0        37.0              52.3                    42.3
PDIALI                   5.0       13.0         23.0              33.0                    44.5
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SZCNDAY)           23.5        11.1         25.2              10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-TICACHER RATIO
PRIM1ARY                          61.0        £7.0         36.0              30.3                   30.1
SZCONDARY                         16.0        28.0         21.0              23.1                   16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)             15.5        24.0 1       62.0 /            43.5                   79.5
PASSENE CARS/THOUSAND POP           10.5        13.0         18.3 iL           17.8                   46.0
I:ADIO RECZI'"hl/THOUSAND POP       £0.3        75.7        157.0             138.8                  225.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND 20            0. 1       14.0         47.1              46.1                  107.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSND POPULATION            I6          15.9         43.6 /d           31.2                   63.5
CINEDA ADNAL ATTENDANC/CAPITA        1.6          ..          1.5 A             1.7                    2.8
TOTAL LBOOR tTO0HCROUS)           1138.0      1215.0       1751.0
ViKALs (PERCENT)                   6.0         7.7          8.5              1O.6                   23.2
ACRXCULTURE (PERCENT)             56.0        50.0         35.0              42.4                   31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        21.0         32.0              27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             27.0        23.7         26.2              26.2                   32.2
MAILE                             50.2        44.2         47.3              46.4                   49.3
PEMiAE                             3.3         3.6          4.5               5.8                   15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.8         2.1          1.7               1.6                    1.4
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSENOLDS            .           ..         17.0 A.
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            .          ..         42.0 A
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            .                       6.0 A
LCOEST 40S OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .                15.0 A
PuOVRTY TARCET GROPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          .         204.0 i           274.8                  288.2
RURAL                                .          ..         97.07            177.2                  184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     .               193.0 i           402.6                  522.8
RURAL                                                     193.0  f          284.9                  372.4
ESTSlrATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY :NCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                           .          20. D f
RURAL                                           ..         15.0 7f
NOT AVAILIAME
NOT APPLICABLE
/.  The group averages for each Indicator are population-%aighted aritbletic  eas. Coverage of coantriem among the
indicator, depends on availability of data and ts not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted 'Data for 1960" refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dets for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
2c  Due to emigration population growtb rase ia lower then rate of natural Increase; Id 1979; le 1983; /f 1977;
LI Access to piped water only; /b 1962; /1 1976; Li 1966; A 1975.
JUnE. 198£



-26-                                                                           ANNEX I
____________                                                      ~~~~Page 3 of 6
bostal    L Sib  . ieoWs  -  ira, 'les, sc. saboMkpL jolefit o      esblesis   ad mLt"iaie  it saeid tie. Is bad as4 ala, -e, ba  Is issnieaallpbi
o.s.  n  .  a, '.5 c  okm.iiadtlI          ba d nets.dm  ao  be dlglame  awlsb it ei                abigle, is..  W. isad ate. ob.steltt.l. mated g.
dne,ab,      ..  s-le.a.  Sine.e Stabb. aol tknerWltc, tenet, mjti difltei   mm  m taiomls.
W. ida-    lnsI an, iii a1   at - assn seemS  lbs ne as.         sitebelm  -d (II  5 5 R sumb-1I .%    I            -lbc    ..i   Rh- Cami eni   sow .8 lb
' Pi   tatyV t.i"  1.. 'Mt% Ieet, oil Repfl5 W' at    hate, gnita lEs t il = Mott dea mIdii. Imlem  la e%ne  btttal 51 c4 t nlacnltaila
a.011.4s.1u.  .. en.  idles...  a1." i. at.eq. .8 tIeans               st  idiste    m    f-  fti  nto .limple abis d       is-1  at- eejlt.p tauwke abota h
settblS I. Damaiab    oi."- cIa   iseteSs.to,1  .btctk. lia.l -am. eat. smle, aon.l welostern     .m e ci -   lloida-   .....asod is bobe dedi
S   (tkn~~   Oq.b.l                                          tu,~~gj~Lqjgj)¶.t.sIise-   iili, tt h .aie Dot i#tWIst"t
Yscl-  at tnleo sue asooeiltt    ates    eta-rk nen   95 P.-"Il  "aat,- lbel...ti owl-  ent. , 
.td  mi is..isr                                                                             I-          it-olaetit.iroWae   be tar IIbes.tialIn
S±Ilus -St...   st.triat  u.  tqslya   ierti                                      aaa   sI    .cseo   .sietes..nl.  ..   .
IpLiBmi"u   - do                pn_.                        -at-bt- 1. PWMI- ~ P"-    ~~~~~--sits  S4 tcigt.1-d lePsii ,
ssss..iabel  bet gold         £ttt 'A.tim-ti bnlalt                   lsbmotiidet- bUelt.. ttitiaii at. etlluslfteoeae V.ci Ip ttdi.i
Mos. two, ad turn is..                                                                  be a tat -   pbpeieoe.  mttcbitembeee  pi.tiiic.4 sisaeplly =..tdie
!".;.ba-I "p-    --toe. .0  -,aL.1                -so- awlear- iWii rbratol,Mefob b  S .  k    lqsi,    Ob..i knO, . .ds
Mofttn.. bessiesi a.  steia ci-                               at.oo.i ne    . ea.dell ..det. tt.%l be  toek.tittc  (tebe 9si
not.Z ates  seL. -pa1  aI bqi-, 4      la                 ste.,tweted Shhpte  atL.)  Is  is   splasaa
Slb oab 8 led..
I    UE1.o,3- tiled.0 *tk se cete  sopoesseees                                AIsdrt  atiat. ttcrl,aetsa  .ot  li.sn
dar L",      . ues ut  atims  6195  eceebt                 .8 isa.S es                   ti    . nisd.  a boda,IiDt sielw eq   - s  ad me tatleidt .
- .%Le-kAnt  tOIe. Iet, ad 11Da Isa                                                             F-el   Pt.,tWe seleaiteteqs.
be-4111MI1214     - (cited pamatl"o isptttse   e  tees -  mIte                  es%MTmsicc'F.ei,          Met.  1.ms, a.  *oa       neM tei
. M             W..       -   a4 at.  satee, a  tocteetep                           islets. ..oap-eforit7.  Obamis  -eIsi                t   men
Doms.  TaJents psnets aenailmy biless  -e,rLs at tbte                                      I  peate.
I-oele balmsai  lilt es.n    a  Malt Ict.ee   otab t-11         i                  c..  eier.iqs.e   riwW.                      oe.a               .o 
sspee6   e   m-..t  a  I-La. kite. -Pa-aps esloteo -I 7.1.)tn0iatbi.elIqI   wn   o.'5ti-a
Isisb. lp.0-1t  is  -%l.Itilg   sa, Les km ebt  best.                               W sik. eibtea. ad tset is dgitqp  -epeesi1.i
eec-c. tis-re.tas mat ie aloo s.iid  .8 ethbe, ti
aiie    .8 boNatte   a  ttnaeeey ereda Itt poelets pttpttso.                                b
m n~r'na -. en  t. man op  a  so,-pitstet                                                                                 be   et eaae
eOM    at -D   Wall m  n.i. alWaxs-op..1e. Fitiltyse.es st ont "Mse- --  icssee=                                                  i sett
ins- km- .ciety otAailo  se twineboa  itse (est                                       p.1st, eskelse. sealsen  s--omI. WIIfia. skida..led 1ell
iesasl  is-li   I.a.meI.    tie ban  ye  to s-s                                  P-ss  15 tijesis  Is. diti.ess  IssUe .8 "Laoea, e.si9 Is
ad Mn teat 6sek pat.    "P M  .tttanao A. ses eattnw. a  tbv                     talsal    SIb sissic  .d.atst  atibeimss  op s d lPM petmeet
,isi  tot Is n-a  ThaS.    st  peaisiise lits - elsac  - uk.                          ala   aspt 5.19 tets - stew  oft dtn.eo  teal "M.
bad  ie -o)ns  sb-in-el.a.  ts.qelai  b   s                                            sCat - .t.t steS is.. -  eeS   w- ~ S a
mmlh k.t  tIo Na irs.  ro N l.oeata,sas -t -.ck i -al                                             II,ct   s.l     Ie. Z   .tsbre.ti.  ieeit=e
etl   I.i eti-e.t ..ates- Isiki  .slte .p  it %. year   , . "                        looled. i..bsit. iat .tttle. 1 i -- Ite  pmn.                 4-.esrt
Ie.e.   s t ia ift   t ellis tseI." *- I.-etlsa  tss.t  t  teTh.leA-ti.sol,e o da it.ts.*e                              ni.14 i.i
- Ibi-es, it ci..te .si sie-W.-n 1.1 frlrsi.                          OtSistt  ons
....tli . O   aWO Ilugdi -..
g moe       Inset.. tm-ase a-ritu. 14i  ectooia.ei  "d                            eas 1..D                  .1        t      llt,
IMMsEe,     aws.S M4it5   5ns)-fneqc   -etI.... ctntt.me tattlaeaale -d y. P.-~  .sy  teq.iend Ifs..
Ttistatistl 115.4i9-1,Ia:iCe sea,                                                 me neee-       Dte.  e.Ite    sn sDetda        h. Cses. Ioese a1    
cnet4ab  etluRaI   --9 deatt  tW ste  5  s    Si-.11.0wss to- .is.V    t                                                           r   .ft 9e
,b. Wir        4        974.                                        sio  el.ttIs ite  oesco."""'ttye.a  stole.'W a..7i
ie.lsln  s  940.4  aiL-r af   siapot-C.sissieslot   . s.tfle                                                          .  n.        e.areite  nb
be._b1eistee.t     eIie   1..iylma   iS-                                        ot     i     t,ss  ttIac  lp  o  -  bt" "al setebasne 
I- ~i.kse Ie. 1Wtia  tn  ise                                                    cesattles oclya..tea.-Ito...,  is
'Sol.   di-- kned      Oc0   ete                 f     15ws1                                    e Ilsi o-il      i  sc i              f..teS.t tsiab
slt.i9..  a  a ~t.)at...  O-A 1.".                                              Wiy  mit  tlsa. -PP-itesdr-t -ei.iseft
-      -                --           ~      ~      ~      ~      ~                         oiflcea.lcaiIt.e.~'eII  ok
d   E=           :Lownadpetot)   .  -t  M-tt  -1o                           -it.r.sesot
151.                                                                          pslloatis a-coa%ilnre. oe ot-a=e- s-ta-.-                tastseI
voqtyPlnae-a~siets..isesctttt..isad.  - a..t    bo. .8 sosomosi.-Isclt  it I.  a~or  soL mane ls lisa-    a.
.reeiic-vetsiStisaeai.tnp.w   at teenel laz   pioslot          -ls,esi tctcac site aIone &.- ss-tas   b  t t.
I          oe.....                                                               An ~tloeca  i jeSt. tL pe.Iede sSeeot   tt.l es
telL Pi.ic-tier. soiee 8 eitias) -  Psttee.1 sittsd                                             1,,       F-la soil...    root,
iO-is-ir     -L tale.1  sirsioee,  teI, aoilaesesid en.  kV7. tio                  LeSati"9 e
oclh-knse.  e Oe ~tilt Med  l-l, stbse  1w    t            ~      ~        U~~mj.pjgad.q    iseeeni. .  ielza11-., isfet  sted
--111,      eis.i-  Caooa. sastecllt    --W tibe  e-acel,n..-0                        O-blap~~. olj-a asiils   kn4ssieos, coes.. sc. .cote.
4".  Wallofia, -ad- -qm- W-oW  _A-aA. Wpooa 1-                  19ptpt"ai. .1  oil  da.tei lelt IS  Ic  orl.e uresete 5-215 55   ee
..P-t. JiDo    ctAbil  .b-l e,Sto (fesa-l-t, l - ld..  ao '. lot. es                  bribbite,   iesl   1.. .syo. pt,patt.oiec .8 W.agl Icie 2ess..
._je  _edop C.  s--tais-  L_ tel ma imittos- ryc toa,oft..is .ed  a                                           f   ..-.-I.aeit   ts .keica
oa  a  Ianoslesis test teoao -ileataoOl te.0 0i.-       ad   o                   tunic. so istaceneM att -es late.o fliLeysi  iitl~ sic  re  tea4 1t
afltce  Ised ao-tl -ano')   t -" -eic.-I  selesee- stilt -lef.i.                     3S f4               L-Ieas. iai  it% ttsot I" tt.iLs)tltslI   i
dat.  ~ ~      ~     ~     ltD4_                                           qscttplilstniisom               e   aea             .ysiiesc
ats   mks .1 es   a  ttsiitea s.stsa. itfta  siteqs. siaetn-lis.sealsapstl   taem   eoelot
Le     .   5re lad,  peI tic. laKI4 i-    te ilesri-ats  -elt-                        ise-.Aelesn    .    ns
t.- ~ l"'      in-  aS-   a filmsle,tesinL  eW an  s. :ci                   tt.sfq               t - Wtto wpelit   at it sa-as aI-L. i
"aa"sdesobet. .0 _ siate.. ba   aisa.~   taa-W bse   too seLsts-m                                   a"M_k-l  
VothaS,id lent 3,p-6. fIWO. aM id lea" t-                                                                   I 0MU1-m,tmt=
Iec   en. -L1o tirei "la-    se det- 5  itsi sese,   ci re  osus            ~L,o  IO-.   ibib is-  OSA, a  15                         tci -dI
aI dt..   let 1.iltes MM tc1 itl  byi.pe.d   c  S                                      s
elea  .8",4-. t6ie    i t.o nt. perl 3del tar  ii tie1 .- slate  aCat                                        C7.ft          -11   ea-         -   t
otadatO  -  tni Ca  sad  71 ct   61 teal posit. a  it, t-%-   bft  1 Iota 1..0-alale
.1  os  pettt     aeatn'le  ate saee. pispn. hi ItI tte -gm.                                  Isoestetisaies                ste
I bela   ssae   dsls  tsnpc   ntsti,ls Wa   Iol =bowhat        Ii                    rcalpaes.da   1   swateeia  rctnai                              Begast
dnbataeoo   C                  eaovedlaoaea  m-ia.I-
Me e7 -t s-e -         net-thsM  a'ssi let                flies- e                          mitcpioytsleLS seeidc   nmpee  e
mDeba dbe,e  IDtn Is" tIelI             hi.t-    ale, te.a                            sieo    e    ilb   siy    t..tn   ti0siI.  i   eo
lt.NeaIe. D ao. (a    f )-ss  dett bl, itist  n
e.1  Me w tssd s. cie.ket irs. in a1L.. tea ac. e,a
at ct  .plc(sect  -        eeCtleltboaocate,  aces.. tebareirntsei  a takt
at          "'i isld  essied ssittt si    "'sia"'tS "e 'o"l    sea.attetss    p tt
ad n-         a.t          Wa ti   piheCeeto    Iti.esa,- erldg,aSa 



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECOONOIC INDICATORS
Population:  6.85 uillion (id-1983)
rNP per Capita: $1.290 (1983) (a)
Annual Crowth Rates
Ameunt                                             (at 1980 prices)
(million US*                          Actual                      Prel.           Projected
Indicator                  at current prices)
1983            1979    1980    1981    1982    1983           1984    1985      1966      1991
NATIONAL ACONTrS
Gross domettic product /1              8,136.5         6.6      7.4      5.5      0.0     4.8        5.5      4.4       3.5      3.5
Agriculture                            998.6        -4.8      9.8      6.5    -9.9      2.7       11.6      2.0      2.5      2.5
Industry                             2,503.7        10.8      9.0      6.8     0.3      6.7        3.7     3.2       3.2      3.3
Services                             3.542.6         8.4      7.7      6.6      2.6     3.9        5.0      3.9       3.9     3.9
Consumption                            6,454.5         4.1    12.7       7.5      3.4     5.9        4.9      4.3      4.1       3.8
Gross investment                       2.402.6          6.3     0.9    15.1       1.7    -4.0        4.5    -3.3      -0.5       2.8
Exports of good. and NFS               2,863.3        21.4'    0.1       3.4    -6.9       1.4       2.2      9.3      4.5      2.7
Lmports of goods and NFS               3,583.9        15.1      4.5    13.0      0.9    -1.8         1.8      3.0      3.0      3.0
Gross national product                 8.241.9         6.8      7.3      5.8      0.3     5.0        5.0      3.6       3.4      3.4
Cross national savings                 1.787.4        15.2    -4.7       0.7    -9.8       1.4       4.S      4.3      0.3       1.7
PRICES
CDP deflator (1980 - 1003                             87.2   100.0   111.4   128.9   141.0         151.0
Exchange rate                                          2.46    2.47    2.03    1.69    1.47          1.29
Share of GDP at market prices (S)                              Average Annual Increaee (2)
(at current price() 2/                                 (et const nt prices)
1971      1976       1981       1983       1986       1991    1971-76         1976-81         1981-66          1986-91
Cross domestic product /1  100.0        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       8.B            5.8             3.6              3.9
Agriculture               19.0       17.8       11.3       12.3       12.9       12.0      8.2             1.2             1.5             2.5
Industry                  25.9       25.2      32.0       30.8       31.2       32.1      10.0            8.6              3.4             4.5
Services                  43.1       44.0       41.8       43.5      42.2       42.1       7.6            6.1              3.6             3.9
Consumption                   80.5       ?7.3       76.1       79.3       80.8       80.4       9.6            7.6             4.5              3.8
Gross investment              21.5       30.7       32.3       29.5       26.3       23.1      14.1            6.9            -0.4              1.3
Exports of goods and NPS    24.1         29.1       41.4       35.2       36.4       38.8       5.7            7.7             2.0              5.3
Imports of goods and UFS    26.1         37.1       49.8       44.0       43.5       42.4      13.1           11.2             1.3              3.4
Gross national product        99.6       98.7      100.8      101.3      lOO.2       99.0       8.5            6.3             3.4              3.0
Net factor income             -0.4       -1.3        0.8        1.3        0.2       -1.0        -              -               -                -
Gross national savings         19.1      21.4       24.7       22.0       Z0.6       19.6       2.9            2.7             0.1              3.7
As 2 of GDP
(at current prices)
1976      1981       1982       1983
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                24.2       30.0       32.6       34.5
Current expenditure                                            18.5       22.4       24.9       27.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-3                                      5.7        7.5        7.6        6.9
Capital expenditure                                            11.4        9.2        9.8       10.4
Foreign financing                                               1.0        2.6        3.7        1.4
1971-76         1976-8L         1981-86         1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
CNP grouth rate (Z)                                            8.5              6.3             3.4             3.8
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                                 5.9              3.6             1.0             1.2
ICOR                                                           2.5             5.1             10.4             6.3
Marginal savings rate                                         24.0             11.30            0.4            19.2
Import elasticity                                              1.               1.9            0.4              0.9
(W) Vorld Bank Atlas Methodology.
/I  CDP at market prices and components at factor cost.                                                         ENENA CP 11-C
/2  Projected years in constant prices.                                                                         April 1985
0777s, p. I



- 23-                                                 1tANUX I
Page 5 of 6
ITUNISIA - _im       TRAOE
Population. 6.85 million (mid-1963)
CNP per Capita:  81,290 (1963)
Annual Orwoth latces
Amount                                                  (at 19M0 Priees)
(million UJ                              Actuel                        Prol.         Projected
at current prices)
Indicator                        1983               1979    1960    1981    1982    1933            1964     193.   1986    1991
EXTURNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports              1661.1               18.0   -0.4      3.9   -3.6       3.8            1.7    11.3     4.3      1.8
Crude oil                        832.2             22.9      2.2   -8.4  -20.0       0.6            -2.1    -3.6   -6.6   -11.2
Agriculture and eood-
processing induitry              143.4              11.4  -31.0    54.3  -31.0   -9.5               25.9    11.2     7.2     3.4
Manufactures, other Vi           885.5              13.0     4.6    13.0    11.5      8.9            1.7    23.1    10.7      6.8
Merchandies imports              3.119.0              20.5     0.5    11.7   -0.9   -2.9               1.6     2.8     2.9      3.1
Food                             434.4             26.2  -13.5    26.1   -7.7    20.7              -4.3      4.6     4.1     2.6
Petroleum                        346.6             7L.4      1.6   -8.9  -46.8       3.0            12.2     3.6     8.1     7.2
Machinery and equipent           795.5              -9.6   -2.2    40.9    15.8  -19.5               5.4   -9.8    -1.8       2.5
others                         1.542.3              20.7     5.1     4.8    10.1     0.7           -0.8      8.8     3.5     2.3
Price Index
PRICES 
Export price index                                 80.5  100.0   116.8   129.3  132.0              164.6   189.6  200.2   302.6
Import price index                                 85.3   100.0   113.9   123.3   127.5            190.8  196.7   210.0   309.5
Tern. of trade index                                88.5   100.0   105.6   103.0   103.5            96.8    96.4    95.3    97.8
Compomition of Merchakdise TrAdl (2)                           Average Annual Increase ( )
(-t current prices)                                    (at constant pries)
1971     976             93    196                               71-6    1976-81    191-8        198-91 2
Exports                              100.0   1000   100.7   100          .0   100.0 fi-                       10 0 7.8   S       .O 2.3 -
Crude oil                         26.8    42.3    53.3   44.7    30.5    23.1                        3.4        6.4       -6.7       -0.8
Agriculture and food-
proceasing industry               35.7    20.6     9.7      7.7     9.7     9.2                      4.4        1.4       -1.3         3.2
Manufactures. other I/            37.5    37.1    37.0   47.6    59.8    67.7                        9.2       12.2       11.0         8.4
Imports                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0                       14.2       10.5        0.7         3.4
Fowo                              19.6    12.3    11.3    13.9    13.8    15.0                     -1.9        13.0        3.0         3.0
Petroleum                          3.6    11.1    19.8    11.1    12.2    15.8                      30.5       13.8       -7.2         7.9
Machinery and Equipment           27.7    31.9    25.4    25.5    22.4    19.2                      18.0        7.2       -2.7         1.1
Others                            49.1   44.7    43.5    49.5    51.6    50.0                       12.1       10.9        4.4         3.4
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade vith             Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (2)     Developina Conetries CZ)            Oil Ex* armr (S)         Centrally Plnned Countrie (X)
1970     1975     1980        1970     1975     1980         1970    1 3                   1970        5      190
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                  70.8     60.1     68.7        4.9      21.7     25.4          13.9   11.1      4.8          9.4      6.1       0.4
Imorts                  85.9      79.5     B1.8        7.1      10.9      7.7          0.7     6.3     7.5           6.3      3.1      3.0
I/  Includes phosphates and derivativs. chemical, mnufactures sad other goods.
2/ Least square.
07775  p. 2                                                                                                                         ANpi CPII-C
April 1985



- 29                                           414I1X I
Page 6 of 6
DUNISIA - BAULCH OP PAM . IU am       L CAPITAL AM16 D0  z/
(million VS at m at rt price.)
Population: 6.85 million Imid-1983)
GNP per Capita: *1.2V0 (1983)
Actu l                             Prol.             troetd
1976     1979     198D     1981      1982      19U3      1re8.    19oi     11        199L
BALANEC  OF PAIMKU
Not balanc of 8oiode &  ervices               417.0  -356.0  -472.6  -691.5  -798.9   -670.5    -757.7  -659.9  -701.7  -606.6
Exports of goods A services               1,479.5  3,137.5  3,912.3  3,932.4  3,457.9   3,284.2    3,113.6  3,501.0  3.879.3  7,245.3
lmports of goods & servicee               1,896.5  3,493.5  4,384.9  4,623.9  4,256.8  3,954.7   3,871.3  4,160.9  4.581.0  7,851.9
Net transferm                                  -0.5      10.3    58.5     50.6      51.0      56.3       45.1     48.1     52.6     75.1
Current account balane                       -416.5  -345.7  -414.0  -640.9  -747.9   -614.2    -712.6  -611.o  -649.1  -531.5
Direct private Inveetmant                     102.6      50.9   236.0   387.4   420.5    213.9          219.1    215.6   236.9   317.1
Cranta                                         53.2      50.7    41.5      20.3     19.0      25.4       25.8     27.1    29.1      41.6
-L? losns test)                               184.7   484.6   344.S   295.0   340.8    371.4            506.3   417.5   453.2    277.5
Official                                     135.8    191.9   263.0   247.4   277.G    248.8          367.6   423.3   305.1   236.7
Private                                      48.9    292.7    81.5    47.6    63.2         122.6      138.7    -5.8    148.1    40.7
Other capital                                  37.3  -116.6  -143.1       28.3    -5.4    -21.2         -77.3    -         --       --
Change in reserves (- implies increase)        39.7  -123.9   -64.9   -90.1   -27.0           14.7       3B.7   -4.4    -70.1  -104.7
International reserves                        304.5   347.5   41Z.4   502.5   529.5   54.8             553.5   601.9    672.0  1,213.3
Rseervss/lports                                1.9       1.2      1.1      1.3      1.5       1.6        1.7      1.7      1.8      1.9
Actual                              Frel.
1976      1179      1980     1931      1982      18 9i
GROSS DlSBURoXSNTS
Official grants                                    53.2      50.7     41.5      20.3      19.0      25.4      25.8
Grosa disbursements of ILT loan.                 250.8    637.8    559.1   607.2    629.0          741.8     966.1
Concemsional                                      109.3     140.9    206.4   245.5    246.1    165.7         301.5
Bilateral                                    100.4      140.0    198.4   Z37.5    230.0        142.7     223.2
IDA                                            8.9       0.2       1.0      1.1       1.0      --        --
Other multileteral                             0.D       0.7       7.0      4.9       15.1      23.0      78.3
Non-concessional                                 141.5    496.9    352.7   361.7    382.9          576.1     64. 6
Private                                       71.6    378.3    223.5   224.4    255.0    366.0    402.5
Official export credits                        9.9      49.6      55.5      35.4      24.4      87.6     158.3
tlMO                                          25.3      55.4      Sl.i    69.4       81.8      89.6      88.0
Other multilateral                            30.2       13.7     22.6    32.5       21.7       32.9      15.8
ELmRNAL DEBr
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed               1,182.6   3.021,5   3,227.4  3,280.9   3,480.5   3.658.7   4,165.0
Otficial                                     976.2  1,854.7   Z,038.0  2,149.1   2,346.0  2,478.0   2,845.5
lSRD                                       127.8    232.0    269.0   319.6    375.5    434.2    480.9
IDA                                         64.1      67.3      67.9    67.5       67.8      67.0      66.2
Other                                      784.3   1,554.7  1.701.1  1,762.0   1.904.7   1.976.8  2,298.4
Private                                      Z06.4   1,166.8  1,159.4  1,131.8   1,132.5   1,150.7  1,319.5
Undisbursed debt                             1.124.8   1,819.8   1,925.6  2,020.7  1,9D0.7   2,065.9   1,960.7
DEBT SERVlCE
Total debt service paymener                     98.5     315.4    430.4    517.0    o83.3    560.2    681.7
Interest                                      36.9     162.5    215.9   204.7    194.8        189.8    221.9
Psyments as I exports                            6.7      10.1      11.0     13.1      14.0      17.1      21.9
Paymsents as I CGM                               2.2       4.4       4.9      6.1       5.9       6.6        8.4
Average interest rate of new Loans (2)           5.5       7.2       6.8      8.1        7.6       8.2       9.5
Official                                       4.3       5.6        5.9     6.9       7.1         -         -
Privste                                        7.9       9.8      10.5     12.7       9.4        -          -
Average maturity of ne. Loans (years)           16.3       15.6      17.4    15.6       17.5      13.9      11.8
Official                                      20.4       19.4      19.4    18.2       20.2       --         -
Private                                        8.6       9.2       9.2      5.8      10.2        --
As Z of Debe Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1983)
DEBT STRUCTUP£
Maturity structure of debt outstsnding (2)
Amortization due within 5 years                                      40.1
Amortization due within 10 years                                      ".1
Interest etructure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                        3.9
/I  Numbers cay cot add up due to rounding.
PrENE C:  1i-C
0777S, p. 3                                                                                                              April 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX It
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BASIC LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31- 1985)a
US $ Million
Loan or                                                                                                   Amount (Less
Credit                                                                                                     Cancellationl
Number      Year           Borrower                          Purnose                               Bank        ins    Undtsbursed
Forty-one Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                        389.00      7S.2
1431        1977        Republic-of Tunisia              Irrigation Development                     42.00                  2.47
1445        1977        SONEOE                           Fourth Water Supply                        21.00                  0.77
1601        1978        Republic of Tunisia              Rural Roads (Third Highways)               32.00                  11.84
1675        1979        Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Scewrage                      26.50                 11.99
1705        1979        Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Development                   19.00                 10.21
1746        1979        Republic of Tunisia              Second Fisheries                           28.50                 16.36
1796        1980        Republic of Tunisia              Southern Irrigation                        25.00                 14.83
1797        1980        office des Ports Nationaux    Third Port                                    42.50                 11.27
1841        1980        Republic of Tunisia              Fourth Highways                            36.5s                 23.Sl
1864        1980        Socite Tunisienne de
l'Electricitd et du Gaz          Second Natural Gas Pipeline               37.00                  16.21
1885        1980        Banque Nationale de Tunisie   Third Agricultural Credit                     30.00                 12.57
1961        1981        Republic of Tunisia              Fourth Education                           26.00                 22.10
1969        1981        Republic of Tunisia              Small-Scale Industry Development           30.00                 24.38
1997       .1981        Republic of Tunisia              Northwest Rural Development                24.00                 17.36
2003        1981        Soci6td Tunisienne de
1'Electricite et du Gaz          Third Power                               37.50                  17.80
200S        1981        Republic of Tunisia              Health and Population                      12.50                  10.71
2012        1981        Republic or Tunisia              Textile Rehabilitation                     18.60                  0.26
2052        1981        Republic or Tunisia              Grain Distribution and Storage             42.00                 36.40
2-08        1982        Republic of Tunisia              Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)                35.50                 32.04
2113        1982        SDET                             Electrical and Mechanical Industries  30.50                      14.57
2134        1982        SONEDE                           Sixth Water Supply                         30.50                 13.43
2157        1982        Republic or Tunisia              Irrigation Development                     22.00                 20.56
2197        1982        Republic of Tunisia              Technical Assistance                        4.50                   3.73
2223        1983        Republic of Tunisia              Urban Development III                      25.00                 24.05
2230        1983        Republic of Tunisia ,            Education V                                27.00                 26.53
2234        1983        Republic of Tunisia              Central Tunisia Irrigation                 16.50                 13.54
2255        1983        Republic of Tunisia              Urban Sewerage III                         34.00                 32.97
2289        1983        Republic of Tunisia              Sfax Flood Protection                      25.00                 24.49
2301        1983        SOFOMECA                         Industry (IV) Foundry                      16.80                 15.96
2346        1984        Republic of Tunisia              Mining Technical Assistance                13.40                 13.30
2368        1984        Republic of Tunisia              Seventh Water Supply                       SO.00                 49.88
2429 a/    1984         Republic of Tunisia              Second Urban Transport                     33.00                 33.00
2455 g/    1984         Socite Tunisienne de
1'Electricitd et du Gaz          Fourth Power                              38.70                  38.70
2502 a/    1985         Republic of Tunisia              North West Agricultural Production"  15.00                       5S.00
TOTAL                                                                   1.337.00      75.2       632.70
Of which has been repaid                                                  190.03 L.D
Total now outstanding                                                   1.146.97      66.1
Amount Sold                               14.33
of which has been repaid                14.33
Total now held by Bank and IDA D/                                      1.132.64      66.1
Total Undisbursed                                                                               632.70
a/   Not yet effective
g/   Prior to exchange rate adjustment
O on April 25. 1985 a SS0.0 million loan for an Export Industries Project has been approved.
Signed on April 2S.1985.
0674S/34



- 31 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
STATEMNT OF IFC XNVESTMFNTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 21, 19flS
Anount of USS 1illion
Year               Pbliaator                    Tvye of BusineSs    Loan        Euaty        ToIal
1962      NPK Engrais                           Fertilizers            2.0        1.5         3.5
1966      Societe Nat. d'Investissement         Dev. Finance Co.                  0.6         0.6
(now BDET)
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                       Dev. Finance Co.       8.0        2.2        10.2
1970      Societe Nat. d'Investissement         Dev. Finance Co.                  0.6         0.6
(now 0 ET)
1973      Societe Touristique                   Tourism                1.6        0.3         1.9
et Hotelire RYM SA
1975      Societe d'Etudes et                   Tourism                2.5        0.6         3.1
Sousse-Nord
1974      Industries Chimiques                  Chemicals                         0.6         0.6
1978      BOET                                  Dev. Finance Co.                  1.2         1.2
1984      Societe Tunisienne de Leasing         Leasing Co.                       0.5
1984      Societe H1iniere de Spath             Mining Co.           -.A
Fluor et de Barytine
(Fluobar)
Total Gross Coamitments                                    14.1         8.5        22.6
Less Cancellations                                         1z2.         LA         1A4.
Terminations. Repayments
and Sales
Total Comnitments now                                                   ___
held by IFC
Total tindisbursed                                          LII         0.6         Li
0674S/35



ANNEX III
- 32 -                  Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country                        8 months from May 1984
to prepare the project:                          to December 1984
(b) Agency that prepared the project:               Ministry of Planning,
BDET, BTKD, STUSID, CETIME
and INNORP I
(c) Project first identified by Bank:               May 1984
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                          December 1984
(e) Negotiations completed:                         April 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                  September 1985
Section II: Special Bank implementation actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.  Special Conditions of effectiveness:
Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and
BDET, BTKD and STUSID (para. 65).
2. Condition of disburcpmpnt against the technical assistance component:
The employment of at least two experts by CETIME and at least one by
INNORPI (paras. 71 and 72).
3. Other special conditions:
(a) BDET, BTKD and STUSID shall annually review with
the Bank the development banks' interest rate level and
structure in light of the average cost of capital, administra-
tive costs and the evolution of interest rates in Tunisia, and
thereafter all necessary measures satisfactory to the Bank
shall be taken to allow the development banks to achieve a
reasonable spread (para. 38);



ANNEX III
- 33 -                   Page 2 of 2
(b) BDET, BTKD and STUSID shall review with the Bank each year,
starting December 31, 1985, the resource needs of the three
development banki for the following year (para. 38);
(c) By March 31, 1986 the Government shall complete and review with
the Bank a study on foreign exchange risk coverage of foreign
borrowings (para. 39);
(d) The Government shall apply the EMI policy measures agreed upon
(para. 70); and
(e) BDET would maintain a debt equity ratio not exceeding 8:1 and
BTKD and STUSID would each maintain a debt equity ratio not
exceeding 4:1 (paras. 49, 56 and 62).



ir
4l.~~~~d .   , ~                               nn!r
3. , TUNIS                3I'I_
Of JA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Is.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
k                                                                               N~~~~~~~~~ 
36'                                                                                                                   3 ;
; ~    ~   ~~ ~   ~~~~~ ?I¶E              50     '7 5*
*   Nolio..aI Cop,laI  KIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i0?FE0  II.~~~~~~~~~~~~i
*   Grn'enawote Cap~~~~~~~~~..........."'... 
-   Ro,I..as                     .lKAS    R I N1wE
]N'~ ~~4   p0j                                S.   i,' e...
8          J  /   ~~SlIDI BOUZID             S FX           a     
-  ,~~~~~~~ Sail Lakes ~ ~    ~      ~     ~    Ob7rAk                         SA
-   ~< -.-/ In.ra,YsIBafdae
4  toZ  T   T   +                            ASl    1SD~~~~~~~ .i                               . . 
F                                         lw;l                 1,,, ".,   . N GEABE '2 CHA \- a|3
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ofWr
T U N I S I A                                          ATAOUINE    9                 (  zc~~~GAS  5-
a  75  sa    rjs                              Ir         <   >~~J
>   "lirmol Covilal  x"csfrrws    ~     ~     ~     ~    A~
* ~~~~~~GABrEro o-oS s, -°  Ci|''
=~~~   ~~       Ee  B.'d  I  L   I
4  Perls          s_  F, _e_                    )              _>           W -    >~~~~~~~4
+   Airvers_                        _     _               J                          t1 
|   v   J   5°11   tf k-      ,_  d  Fb  bW  1   rd  _       t               A I C E *I A  j   * 1MIE  *I
--3jnr-  enoiz--,                                                                       rr
T*  Un-lvo N     oeoi Ir                      o                         .L A  ATAOUINE



