Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4748-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Tai Basin Urban Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
JIANGSU PROVINCE 
 
Dated October 9, 2004  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4748-CHA  
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JIANGSU 
PROVINCE (Jiangsu). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of sixty-one million Dollars ($61,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Jiangsu agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Jiangsu, in consideration of the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 2.01. (a) Jiangsu declares it commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, and 
shall cause to be carried out, the Project all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, management, financial and engineering 
practices and public utility, social and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Jiangsu shall otherwise agree, Jiangsu shall carry out the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.2, B, C.2 and C.3 of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Jiangsu shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Jiangsu shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Jiangsu, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Jiangsu on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Jiangsu shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Jiangsu shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Jiangsu of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a)  Jiangsu shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) Jiangsu 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without l
imitation upon Jiangsu’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 19 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Jiangsu shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, which set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by each said report, showing separately funds provided under 
the Loan, and explain variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than 60 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial monitoring 
report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 60 days after each subsequent calendar 
semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Jiangsu 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Jiangsu thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 For 
Jiangsu 
Province: 
Tai Basin Urban Environment Provincial 
 
Project Management Office 
Jiangsu Economy and Finance Division 
Jiangsu Finance Bureau 
63 Beijing West Road 
 
Nanjing, People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-25) 3633110 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Jiangsu may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or a Vice Governor of Jiangsu or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and said Governor 
or Vice Governor shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bei
jing, People’s Republic of China , as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
Authorized Representative 
 
JIANGSU PROVINCE 
 
By 
/s/ Zou Jiayi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for construction of wastewater treatment plants to be procured under 
turnkey contracts shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines: 
(i) 
Works under the Project for the construction of interceptor and 
sewage collection pipelines, pumping stations, wastewater 
treatment plants, and sediment dredging, estimated to cost less 
Page  8
-
7
-
than $15,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $115,000,000 equivalent, and  
(ii) 
Goods under Part B.1(a) of the Project that are estimated to cost 
less than $750,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent,. 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
Part C.1 of this Section shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People's Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circula
tion in the Borrower’s country, 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated cost less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or Jiangsu, as the case may be, 
in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding 
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such 
security.   Said security shall be required to be furnished only at 
the time when the bid is submitted and not when the bidder is 
purchasing the bid document. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(v) 
Bidders shall be permitted to submit bids by mail or by hand.  
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding 
documents and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the 
form of “pass/fail” requirements. 
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower or Jiangsu, as the case 
may be. 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. There shall 
be no negotiations with a bidder prior to the award, and the 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
(xi) 
A government-owned enterprise in the Borrower’s country may 
be permitted to bid or submit a proposal for the supply of goods 
and works only if such enterprise can establish that it: (A) is 
legally and financially autonomous; (B) 
operates under 
commercial law; and (C) is not a dependent agency of the 
agency conducting the procurement. 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
Page  10
-
9
-
(xiii) 
The successful bidder shall not be required to pay any service fee 
to a procurement agent, employer or purchaser in exchange for 
being awarded a contract. 
(xiv) 
Association with any local firm or firms shall not be a pre-
condition for foreign bidders to be awarded a contract. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for: (a) works or goods procured using the 
procedures set forth under Part B of this Section (International Competitive Bidding); 
(b) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more; and (c) goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Selection of al
l
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
 
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below. 
Project Management and Coordination
1. Jiangsu 
shall: 
 
(a) 
Maintain, a Project Leading Group, chaired by the Vice Governor with 
representatives from Provincial Development and Reform Commission, Provincial 
Construction Bureau, Provincial Environment Protection Bureau, Provincial Finance 
Bureau, Provincial Water Resources Bureau, and Provincial Price Bureau, to be 
responsible for the overall oversight of Project implementation. 
(b) 
(i) 
Maintain the Tai Basin Urban Environment Project Office 
(“TBUEPO”) established within the Jiangsu Finance Bureau to 
be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of 
Project implementation, including procurement, financial 
management, resettlement, environmental impact mitigation, and 
progress reporting.  
(ii) 
Furnish to the Bank by September 30, 2004, a time-bound action 
plan to have in place in TBUEPO additional staff, in sufficient 
numbers and with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the 
following: (A) 
financial management, (B) 
procurement 
management, and (C) oversight and monitoring of and reporting 
on resettlement and environmental impact mitigation; and 
thereafter implement said plan taking into account the Bank’s 
comments thereon. 
2. 
Jiangsu shall ensure that each Project Municipality shall continue to maintain the 
following organizations, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable 
to the Bank, throughout the period of implementation of the Project: 
(a) 
The respective Municipal Project Leading Group to be responsible for 
the overall oversight of the implementation of the Project within the municipality. 
(b) 
The respective Project Management Office established within the 
respective Municipal Finance Bureau to be responsible for overall coordinating the 
implementation of the Project within the municipality. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(c) 
 The respective Project Implementation Unit to be responsible for the 
implementation of the Project within the municipality. 
Resettlement Action Plans and Environmental Management Plan
3. Jiangsu 
shall: 
 
(a) 
Take, and shall cause the Project Municipalities and each Project Company 
to take, all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be carried out in 
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Management Plan. 
(b) 
In the selection of sites to carry out rehabilitation works on the sewer 
network in Suzhou city that will be served by the wastewater treatment plants to be 
constructed under Parts B.2(a) and B.2(b) of the Project, take all necessary actions, and 
cause all necessary actions to be taken, to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary 
loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or income, or 
means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently.   In the event that said works would 
give rise to Displaced Persons, prior to commencing such works, prepare a resettlement 
action plan satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the policies and procedures in the 
Suzhou Resettlement Policy Framework, and thereafter, implement the resettlement 
action plan so approved by the Bank. 
(c) 
Ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action Plans or 
the Environmental Management Plan shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval. 
4. 
Jiangsu shall, and shall cause the Project Municipalities and each Project 
Company to: 
 
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines and procedures acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of:  
(i) 
the Environmental Management Plan; 
(ii) 
the Resettlement Action Plans;  
(iii) 
the Suzhou Resettlement Policy Framework by Suzhou and any 
resettlement action plan that is prepared in accordance with said 
framework and approved by the Bank; and 
(iv) 
the achievement of the objectives of said plan and framework,  
including the engagement of experienced and qualified 
independent monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing in January 31, 2005, semi-
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
annual reports of the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities, together with 
any revisions proposed to be introduced to such plans in order to achieve their respective 
objectives.  
5. 
Jiangsu shall cause each of Suzhou and Wuxi, by January 31 in each year, 
commencing in 2005, to furnish to the Bank the following, prepared in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: 
(a) 
an inventory of all  enterprises (“Inventoried Enterprises”) with facilities 
that are connected to the sewer network to be served by each wastewater treatment plant 
being constructed under this Project, including their key production and pollution 
discharge data;  
(b) 
a program showing the date on which each of the Inventoried Enterprises 
began or will begin participation in the Jiangsu Cleaner Production Implementation 
Program; and 
(c) 
a summary of the results of the technical audit on the Inventoried 
Enterprises’ production (including, polluting aspects of production) completed within the 
most recent 12 months, and the pollution prevention implementation plan for said 
enterprises.  
6. 
Jiangsu shall cause each of Suzhou and Wuxi, by January 31 in each year, 
commencing in 2006, to furnish to the Bank a certification, acceptable to the Bank, of 
compliance by the Inventoried Enterprises with relevant national and local wastewater 
discharge regulations.  With respect to any of the Inventoried Enterprises that do not 
comply with said regulations, Jiangsu shall cause Suzhou and/or Wuxi, as the case may 
be, to provide to the Bank evidence of actions taken against said Inventoried Enterprises 
to enforce said regulations, including a time-bound action plan for compliance with said 
regulations. 
7. 
 Jiangsu shall cause each of Suzhou and Wuxi: (a) by the date of the respective 
municipality’s final approval for the commencement of operation of the first wastewater 
treatment plant constructed under the Project within the respective municipality, to 
furnish to the Bank a certification, acceptable to the Bank, that construction and operation 
of the facilities to be used for the disposal of sludge from each of their respective 
wastewater treatment plants, to be constructed under the Project, complies with 
applicable national regulations; and (b) within 6 months of said approval, to test said 
sludge and furnish the test results to the Bank, including the method for disposal of such 
sludge in accordance with the requirements set out in the Environmental Management 
Plan. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
Management of Civil Works 
8. 
By December 31, 2004, Jiangsu shall enter into an agreement, acceptable to the 
Bank, with consulting firms for the management of civil works to be carried out under the 
Project. 
Transfer of revenues and Wastewater Tariffs 
9. 
Jiangsu shall cause Wuxi to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 2005, a time-bound 
action plan for the transfer of all revenues, which are collected from districts through 
Wuxi’s municipal wastewater fees, back to the districts from which said revenues were 
collected.  
10.  
By December 31, 2006, Jiangsu shall cause each Project Municipality:  
(a) 
(i) to authorize and enable each of its respective Project Companies to 
levy and collect utility company wastewater tariffs for wastewater 
management services provided by said Project Company, including the 
establishment of utility company wastewater tariffs (as defined below) to 
replace the existing municipal wastewater fees applied in each 
municipality; and (ii) to establish the utility company 
wastewat
er tariff 
at a level that is not less than the level of the municipal wastewater fees 
applied in each respective municipality when said tariff becomes 
effective. 
(b) 
For purposes of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 10, “utility company 
wastewater tariff” means charges that meet the following criteria:  
(i) 
charges levied for wastewater services directly provided by the 
Project Company to its customers;  
(ii) 
charges applied under the legal authority of the Project Company 
as a wastewater service provider and which charges are legally 
due and payable to the Project Company;  
(iii) 
charges billed and collected, either directly by the Project 
Company or through an agent (acting on behalf of the company  
under contract) that remits all collections directly to the Project 
Company, less an agreed amount as payment for the collecting 
service of the agent; and   
(iv) 
charges applied to customers located within the operating 
jurisdiction of the Project Company and in the municipality in 
which the company is located. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Conversion of DFMD
11. 
Jiangsu shall cause Suzhou: (a) to furnish to the Bank by December 31, 2005, a 
time-bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, for the conversion of the Drainage Facilities Management Division (“DFMD”) 
within Suzhou Water Affairs Bureau into an independent  corporate entity by December 
31, 2006; said entity to manage and oversee the operation and maintenance of all 
wastewater systems in Suzhou's central urban districts, and (b) to implement said plan 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
Merger of Wastewater Companies
12. 
Jiangsu, through Wuxi, shall cause Xishan District: (a) to furnish to the Bank by 
December 31, 2005, a time-bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, for the merger in ownership, management and 
operation, of wastewater companies serving and for the consolidation of wastewater 
management throughout Xishan District by December 31, 2006; and (b) to implement 
said plan taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
Parts A.1 of the Project (Rehabilitation of Wuli Lake) 
13. 
Jiangsu shall cause Wuxi to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 2005, a time-bound 
action plan for the implementation of lake rehabilitation activities under Part A.1 of the 
Project and thereafter, implement said plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon. 
Part C.1 of the Project (Wastewater Management Masterplans)
14. 
Jiangsu shall cause each of Suzhou and Wuxi to furnish to the Bank by March 
31, 2005, a time-bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, for the updating or development, as the case may be, of a 
masterplan for the management of wastewater in the respective municipality.  
Wuxi Sewer Network
15. 
Jiangsu shall cause Wuxi to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 2005, a time-bound 
action plan for the rehabilitation of the existing sewer network in the urban areas of Wuxi 
City and, thereafter, implement said plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon. 
Financial Arrangements
16. 
Jiangsu shall allocate to each Project Municipality an amount of the Loan under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, the 
following principal terms: 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(a) 
Jiangsu shall make available the principal amount, which has been 
allocated to each Project Municipality, in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn on account of its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project; 
 
(b) 
Jiangsu shall recover: (i) such principal amount so made available; and 
(ii) an amount equal to one percent, or such other percentage as may be determined by 
the Bank from time to time pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, of such 
principal amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five 
(5) years. 
(c) 
Jiangsu shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to 
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Jiangsu shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.  
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
17. 
Jiangsu shall cause each Project Municipality to relend the portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant to paragraph 16 of this Schedule 
for the purposes of carrying out its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project, to 
each of its Project Companies under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between said Project Municipality and each Project Company: (a) on the principal terms 
set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (b) under conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those 
set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
18. 
(a) 
Jiangsu shall cause, and shall ensure that each Project Municipality  
causes each of its Project Companies to: 
 
(i) 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to which said Project Company is a party, all of 
the obligations of said Project Company therein set forth;  
 
(ii) 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable said Project Company to perform such 
obligations; and 
 
(iii) 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.  
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(b) 
Jiangsu shall exercise, and shall cause each Project Municipality to 
exercise, its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Jiangsu and said Project 
Municipality, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
which Jiangsu or said Project Municipality is a party or any provision thereof. 
Monitoring and Reporting
19. 
Jiangsu shall:  
 
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project, as well as the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
(b) 
Prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, the following semi-annual reports on January 31 and July 31 in each year, 
beginning on January 31, 2005, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph on the physical and 
financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
semester (the report due on July 31, 2007, to summarize progress achieved during the 
period, January 1, 2005, through June 3, 2007) and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date. 
(c) 
After furnishing each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this 
paragraph, review said report with the Bank (the report due on July 31, 2007, shall be 
reviewed with the Bank by August 31, 2007, or such later date as the Bank shall request), 
and promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives minutes thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 17 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the terms of 
availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth in Section I of this Schedule 3 
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be entered into on the conditions set forth in 
Section II of this Schedule 3. 
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1. 
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by a Project Municipality to 
each of its Project Companies, shall be the amount equivalent in Dollars (on the respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn on account of said Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project. 
2. 
Each Project Company shall repay: (i) such principal amount; and (ii) an amount 
equal to one percent, or such other percentage as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement,  of such principal amount, 
over a period of not more than twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) 
years.  
3. 
Each Project Company shall pay interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.  
4. 
Each Project Company shall pay a commitment charge on such principal amount, 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum. 
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal 
conditions. 
1. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with: 
(i) 
appropriate management, financial and engineering practices; 
and 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
(ii) 
appropriate public utility, social and environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and  
 
(b) 
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures necessary to ensure 
that the Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project shall be implemented in 
accordance with its respective Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental 
Management Plan. 
2. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to procure the goods, works and 
consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods, works and 
consultants’ services exclusively in the carrying out of its Project Company’s Respective 
Part of the Project.  
3. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, and the Project 
Municipality concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and works included in its 
Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents. 
4. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with 
sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Project Company to replace or repair such 
goods. 
5. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; 
 
(b) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank and the Project Municipality concerned;  
 
(c) 
furnish to Jiangsu, the Bank and the Project Municipality concerned, as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year: 
(i) 
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for 
such year as so audited;  
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
(ii) 
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail 
as Jiangsu, the Bank and/or said Project Municipality shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
all such other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank, 
Jiangsu, and/or said Project Municipality shall reasonably 
request.
 
6. 
Each Project Company shall furnish to the Bank by January 1, 2006, a time-
bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, for the management and operation of its wastewater facilities and the delivery of 
wastewater services to customers (which may include outsourcing of said functions), and 
thereafter, to implement its respective plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon. 
7. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank and 
to Jiangsu the carrying out of the Project Company’s Respective Parts of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to Jiangsu and 
its respective Project Municipality, and submit to the Bank semi-annual reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its 
respective Parts of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such report. 
8. HWTC, 
SQCC, WAMC, and XWTC each 
shall undertake:  
(a) 
For each of fiscal year, commencing in fiscal year 2005, to produce total 
operating revenues related to its wastewater operations equivalent to not less than the 
sum of: (i) its total operating expenses; (ii) the amount by which debt service 
requirements exceeds the provision for depreciation; and (iii) the amount by which total 
non-operating expenses exceed total non-operating revenues. 
(b) 
To review before September 30 in each of its fiscal years beginning 
fiscal year 2005, on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, it shall 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of the utility company wastewater tariff) in order to meet such 
requirements. 
(d) 
For purposes of paragraph 8 of this Schedule: 
(i) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues arising 
directly from the application of utility wastewater tariffs and 
other user charges by the Project Company concerned for 
wastewater services provided by such company. 
(ii) 
The term “utility company wastewater tariff” means charges 
defined in paragraph 10(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(iii) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line 
basis at a rate of not less than 3.3% per annum of the average 
current gross value of the concerned Project Company’s fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
(v) 
The term “total non-operating revenue” means revenue from all 
sources, other than those related to operations. 
(vi) 
The term “total non-operating expenses” means all expenses, 
other than those related to operations, including taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation or debt 
service requirements, whichever is greater.  
9. 
(a) 
HWTC, SQCC, WAMC, and XWTC each shall undertake not to incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its 
estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall 
be at least 1.3 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt 
including the debt to be incurred. 
(b) 
For purposes of paragraph 9 of this Schedule: 
(i) 
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Project Company 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which 
it is originally incurred.  
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
(ii) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by a 
Project Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank and 
Project Company accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank 
has notified Project Company of its acceptability, provided that 
no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of 
Project Company.  
(iii) 
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:  
 
(A) 
the sum of (I) total operating revenues; and (II) the 
difference between total non-operating revenues and 
total non-operating expenses, and  
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, 
on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into. 
(v) 
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt 
10. 
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
11. 
Each Project Municipality shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
its Project Company to the use of the proceeds of the loan made available under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said Project Company upon failure by such Project 
Company to perform its obligations under the agreement. 
 
