E808
Volume 2
Supplementary Information to
Environmental Impact Assessment
Lake Tai Urban Environment Project
(February 2004)
This is prepared as a supplementary to both the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP). As such, it serves as an integral
part of the project EA documents and will be attached to the original EA as an
addendum. This supplementary information has been prepared in response to World
Bank comments dated February 1, 2004 on the project EIA and EMP and the
following information has been presented in the same section numbers as those in the
original comments.
1.     Analysis of Alternatives
1.1    Alternative Option of Industrial Pollution Prevention/Control.
We understand that the options of industrial pollution prevention and control versus
centralized municipal wastewater treatment plants have been explained by the World
Bank Project Task Team. The EA team wants to provide the following additional
response.
One of key principles in the environmental laws and regulations of China is "polluters
pay" and as such industries will need to control their discharges and emissions at their
own costs rather than using public funds from the government. The role of the
government is to enact and enforce regulations and control and discharge standards.
The NDRC and MOC have set up the standards requesting all industries to recycle
60% of their effluent and the SEPA has a series of very specific discharge standards
for various industries. At the provincial level, Jiangsu Province has its own Clean
Production plan, which outlines clean production and discharge reduction targets for
the industries in the province. Governments of all levels intend to fully enforce the
regulations, standards and targets and are expected to keep and improve their
enforcement efforts. Under the regulatory requirements, industries have to meet
discharge standards, either to the sewers or to the environment directly by investing in
industrial wastewater treatment and control facilities. By the regulations, the
industries are allowed to discharge conventional and non-hazardous waste such as
COD to the municipal sewers leading to centralized municipal wastewater treatment
plants, to allow better efficiency and economy of scale.
1.2    Alternative Options for WWTP Sites
The project involves six WWTPs, of which Loujiang, Fuxin and Dongting WWTPs
are the second phase of existing WWTPs already in operation or to be in operation
soon in their respective same locations. In all three WWTPs, space for the second
phase expansions have been reserved and acquired and therefore there is no option on
alternative sites. The assessment for alternative WWTP sites for Huishan and Anzhen
WWTPs have been presented in the original EA report.
Two alternative sites have been proposed for Wuzhong WWTP during the project
FIllE COPY



preparation: one is located in the industrial zone (Alternative II) and the other is
located by the South Ring Road near Dalonggang River (Alternative I). The exact
locations of these sites are shown in the maD below     and the comDarison of
I    |   .  ''___\ 
I-. i_, I  _             '             kr.  ,1 '        \
____ ____    lI_  _   t,   ---__      \     -.
| I X,, ~~~~~~~~~~~*     I.*X*-  '--tr-
1 ! # 1l~~~~~~ IE 
II        C                            s, ,A
Legend
r____ _ .                                R . ^ l  tc  ~  f  ruzhong WIP
E          g               |  _   __   _ 11_*                          Puep Stetion
F,L   f                                                              River
L *   _  _ _  _  -  \   _  _ District Boundary
Proposed Tai Basin Urban Environment Project (TBUEP)
M  WH ,.4'         Rl 3-12  q                               IF0j1   -   _
Table 1.2-1 Comparison of Wuzhong WWTP Sites
Alternative I                          Alternative II
* Effluent discharges into sewers and more
directly to the Grand Canal, thereby helping
* Effluent will be discharged through open  to improve the community environment.
ditches and affecting the community    Grand  Canal has   greater  assimilative
* Located in urban and residential areas  capacity than the receiving water body under
* Close to sensitive water body and potential  alternative I
impacts to surface water             * Located in industrial zone with little impacts
* Location not easy for sewer network and  to residents
pumping station siting                * Far away from sensitive water body
* On 100 flood plain                   * Easy for sewer network and pumping stations
layout
* On 100 flood plain
Based on the above analysis and comparison, alternative II site is preferred because of
its less impacts expected to the surrounding communities and the environment. In
particular, Alternative I site is located near the Dalonggang River, which discharges to
Lake Tai directly, which is therefore designated as a control section of water body
(sensitive water body). If the WWTP is located at this site, Dalonggang river would be



the receiving water body for the final effluent which and through which Lake Tai
would be impacted adversely. With regard to flood control, both alternative sites are
equal - meeting the at least 100 year flood plain requirement. With all factors
considered, Alternative II site is therefore selected as the Wuzhong WWTP site in the
project.
1.3 Alternative Options for WWTP Sludge Management Options
In the original report, six possible options for sludge management and disposal have
been identified and compared by listing the advantages and disadvantages of each of
the options (Table 4.4-5). These six options are incineration, wet oxidation, anaerobic
digestion, natural drying, composting and landfill.
The EA team made its comparison and analysis of these options based on the general
knowledge of these options as well as the local conditions. Incineration will have
emissions causing secondary contamination. Wet oxidation and digestion are sludge
processing technologies, used primarily as a method for sludge stabilization and as
such they are not options for sludge disposal. Both natural drying and composting will
require very large land spaces, which are scarce in the densely populated project cities.
Such large scale operation in open space and areas with long time raining and hot
seasons each year in the project cities would bring massive environmental problems to
the sites and the surrounding areas. Compost would also have market problems for its
products, which may be very limited in the south Jiangsu area. Furthermore, all of the
above options are not final and would require further disposal options for all sludge or
processing residues. The EA therefore concludes that landfill is the best option for
sludge disposal given the local conditions, provided that the landfill operation will
comply with applicable pollution control standards and meet impact mitigation
requirements.
1.4 Alternative Options for Sediment Disposal
According to applicable regulations and standards of China, sediment with heavy
metal contents not exceeding agricultural application standards in the "Pollutant
Discharge Standards of Urban Wastewater Treatment Plants" (GB18918-2002) may
be used in agricultural, wood and landscaping lands. It may also be allowed to be
disposed in waste land and abundant or acquired fish ponds. But, any sediment or
sludge applied in agricultural lands must also meet the "Pollutant Control Standards in
Agricultural Application of Sludge" (GB4284-84) including relevant requirements
stipulated in the standards. One key requirement is that sludge must be pre-treated
through high temperature composting or digestion before applied in agricultural land.
If heavy metals exceed these standards but the leaching test results do not exceed
"Hazardous Waste Identification Standards - Leaching Toxicity Identification"
(GB50805.3-1996), the sediment may be disposed of in a landfill. To prevent
groundwater and surrounding environment contamination, the landfill needs to be
designed according to sanitary landfill standards by providing low permeable bottom
layers, storm water control, leachate collection and treatment, daily cover, as well as
other control measures. Application rates should not exceed 2000 kg per mu per year
in general".



Except one section, the sediment sampling and testing show that heavy metal contents
in the sediments do not exceed GB18918-2002 standards and as such the sediments
can be disposed of through agricultural land or piling in waste/abandant land. While it
is possible that the sediment may be applied in agrilcutural for disposal, the very
limited and diminishing agricultural land in the areas near urban Suzhou are unable to
accept the large amount of sediments to be produced during dredging operation.
Furthermore, the sediments contain many inert materials from dumping of solid waste
from the urban areas over the years, such as plastics, glass, scrape metals, woods, etc.
Sediments with these materials are clearly not suitable for agricultural land
application. At the same time, the sediments do not need special control disposal such
as landfilling based on the test results of sediment samples collected in the proposed
dredging areas.
The proposed Sanjiaozhui site is zoned as green area in Suzhou's master plan. The
current land utilization is fish ponds, water ponds and other forms of land drepression,
suitable for sediment piling and disposal. Once the piling operation is completed, the
site will be landscaped by planting trees, lawns and other vegetation. This is a safe
disposal option and compliance with the city planning.
The World Bank comments raised the concern about the testing results presented in
Table 5.6-4 of the original report. This is due to a translation error in the English EA
document. The areas left blank in this table for lead, nickel, and cyanide are actually
concentrations below the detection limits. The original Chinese EA has clearly so
indicated but errors occur in the English EA. This note serves as a record to correct
the error and all blank spaces in Table 5.6-4 of the EA document should read "Below
detection limits". The leaching test results of the sediments as shown in Table 5.6-4,
with the correction mentioned above, indicate that none exceed the standards and
sediments are not hazardous.
The original approach of leaving Xiaomiduqiao river undredged was based on the
considerations that the heavy metal contents in the sediments may be so high that the
sediments were hazardous and Suzhou currently does not have the ability to handle
large quantities of hazardous materials. However, when results from all tests including
leachign test of a sediment sample from Xiaomiduqiao river are carefully re-evaluated,
it becomes clear that although the conventional tests show that some heavy metals
from sediments in this area exceeded the agricultural application standards, the
leaching test of the sediment sample shows the sediment is not hazardous indicated by
the lower than standard concentrations for hazardous materials. In other words, the
sediment from this area has been contaminated by heavy metals to the extent that it is
not suitable for agricultural land application as a disposal method and thus not be
suitable to dispose the sediment from this area in the Sanjiaozui site.
Given the sediment contamination status, the available options may be: i) leave the
sediment undredged since the section is located in a dead end section of the river; ii)
dredge the sediment and dispose it in Qizishan municipal solid waste landfill site
which is designed as a sanitary landfill with storm water control, infiltration control,
leachate colletion and treatment and other environmental control in its design; the
sediment may be disposed in the same zone in the landfill which is dedicated to
dispose WWTP sludge (more discussion on this below); and iii) dredge the sediment



and dispose it using another method such as a special controlled zone in the
Sanjiaozui site. Each of these methods have advantages and drawbacks as well as
unknows. To make an infornned decision with an objective to have the least impacts to
the environment, it has been decided a further study about the sediments at the site
and disposal method will be engaged at the early stage of the project prior to
commencing dredging (the dredging is to implement in fall of 2004 to 2005). The
expert panel convened by SEPA for the EIA review on February 8 2004 also requested
"further study is needed to demonstrate the environmental feasibility and reasonning
of the non dredging approach". This further study will include additional sediment
sampling and testing for contaminanted sediment delineation, landfilling approach
evaluation, special zone in the Sanjiaozui site evaluation, environmetal impact of
different options, etc.
As indicated at the beginning of this note, the information presented herein is
supplementary to both the original EIA and EMP reports. As such, the specific actions
and mitigation measures including the further study for the Xiaomiduqiao sediment
dredging approach described above and other parts of the note are deemed
supplementary to the EMP. .
1.5 Alternative Options for Stormwater Collection Systems
Except the old central city areas of Suzhou, all six WWTP serviced areas in this
project have or will have separate stormwater and sewerage collection systems. The
uncomtaminated stormwater will be collected in the separated system and discharged
to surface water bodies directly, while sewerage will be collected by a different sewer
system and diverted to WWTPs for treatment before discharging.
1.6 Cleaner Production and Industrial Polluction Control Action Plan in Jiangsu
Cleaner Production (CP) Program in Wuxi and Suzhou is presently focused on about 600
major polluters in the Tai Basin within Jiangsu Province. The program, under Jiangsu EPB,
reportedly is achieving good results in a number of larger and more profitable industrial
enterprises that have been willing to invest in process improvements, although the small and
medium sized industrial operations may be more difficult to tackle. In Jiangsu's Tai Lake
Water Pollution Control Tenth Five-Year Plan, one section deals specifically with CP. The
plan calls for CP audit of major polluters in the Basin. More specifically, the between 2001
and 2005, the number of industrial operations have been/to be audited in Wuxi and Suzhou
are 11, 75, 140, 210, and 566, respectively. This audit program has been on schedule so far
and is well on its way to achieve its audit target for the remaining two years in the Five-Year
plan. Since 1996, 659 industrial enterprises in Jiangsu province have been audited resulting in
industrial pollution reduction of 20% from the 1996 level.
In the Circular About the Last Three Years Cleaner Production Implementation Plan in
Jiangsu, issued by the provincial government on September 8, 2003, the government further
emphasizes the control of the industrial pollution from its sources and sets the target to
establish Suzhou, Wuxi, Changzhou and Zhengjiang as the CP model cities in the province.
The Circular also calls for the completion of audits for all major industrial polluters in the
following sectors in the province by 2004: dyeing, metallurgical, chemicals, power,
construction materials, light industries. The special focus of the audit will be paid to industrial
operations, which cannot be stably and consistently meet the discharge standards. The
Circular reiterates again that industrial pollution control by the industries themselves is
regulatory requirements and is thus mandatory. The Circular demands governments,
particularly EPBs at different levels to maintain and enhance their efforts for regulatory
enforcement.



2. Appropriateness of the Sanjiaozui site for sediment disposal from the Suzhou
river network
Sanjiaozui site selected for sediment disposal from the Suzhou river network dredging
programs has been evaluated and considered appropriate because of the following
considerations:
. Fully compliant with the Suzhou master plan for land utilization. The Sanjiaozui site
areas are zoned by the master plan to be the green areas in the future. Once the
piling operation is completed, the site will be landscaped and integrated with the
surrounding green areas as zoned by the master plan
. The site is currently fish pond, water pond and depressed lands and converting it to
green areas in the future as zoned by the city's master plan would require a large
amount soil materials for land filling. The utilization of sediment would save a large
amount of soil which would otherwised borrowed from the areas causing other
environmental issues such as erosion, disturbance of the vegetation, transportation,
etc.
. The sediments from the dredged areas meet the agricultural standards and thus can
be disposed of as filling materials
. Sanjiaozui site is located in the suburb Suzhou, with a very few residents in the
nearby areas except some scattered located rural residential housing. There is no
nature reserve or landscaping or other sensitive receptors.
. The site geological conditions are suitable from the loads from the sediment filling.
. The site bottom has about 3.6 m of clay or silty clay with the infiltration rate of 10-7
to 10-8 cm/s.
. Lake Tai basin in its natural setting is all on about 100 year flood plains. With the
urbanization and develoment, flood control standards in urban centers, industrial
zones, concentrated residential areas, etc. in the basin have gradually lifted to 200
year flood plains through flood control and other hydraulic facilities. The Sanjiaozui
site area does not have any specificial flood control facilities and remains on the 100
year flood plain which is sufficient for this type of operation.
Based on the above considerations, the EA concludes the site is appropriate for
sediments disposal.
3. Appropriateness of the Qizishan and Taohuashan domestic landfill sites for
WWTP sludge disposal
The testing results of sludge from existing operating WWTPs (Table 4.4-1 of the EAI
report) show that the sludge from the project areas is not hazardous, nor it is explosive,
flammable, corrosive or radioactive. Although further tests including leaching tests
have been planned and included in the EMP for sludge to be generated by the project
WWTPs at the inception of their operations to confirm these nature, the sludge may
be classified as Category I industrial waste which by definition in the Chinese
regulations is non-hazardous. Its disospal is generally at a landfill following the
standards stipulated in GB 18599-2001.
The municipal solid waste landfills are proposed as the disposal sites for the sludge
based on the following considerations:



• Both proposed landfills meet the Category I industrial waste landfill design
requirements.
• The infiltration rate at the landfill sites is less than K<10-7cm/s, providing the
needed protection for groundwater
. Both landfills have leachate collection and treatment systems, meeting the
applicable requiremetns for general industrial and sanitation landfills
. Geology at both landfills meet the requirements for sludge disposal
. There are storm interception and collection systems surrounding landfills
. The general design of the landfills meet the Category I industrial waste landfill.
. There is no industrial waste landfill in the project cities.
. Operating experience for municipal solid waste landfill to accept WWTP sludge for
disposal.
Article 5.2 of GB16889-1997 ("Standard for Pollution on the Landfill Site for
Domestic Waste") states that it is prohibited to mix hazardous waste with domestic
solid waste. It is banned to dispose hazardous, explosive, radioactive, epidemic and
corrosive wastes at municipal solid waste landfills. As the sludge is not hazardous nor
of any of the above listed natures, the proposed sludge disposal scheme (in the
municipal solid waste landfills) does not contradict with the regulatory requirements
of GB16889-1997. In fact, landfill disposal of WWTP sludge is widely practiced in
many parts of China following close review and approval by SEPA (the ultimate
regulatory interpretation and enforcement agency) and other levels of EPB. Disposal
of the sludge in municipal solid waste landfills is normally, therefore, the safest and
most environmentally sound disposal methods.
As there is no industrial landfill in Suzhou and Wuxi, sludge form operating WWTPs
is disposed in these two landfills proposed for disposal of sludge from the project
WWTPs. To avoid the mixed landfilling of sludge and municipal solid waste, the
existing practice is to create a separate zone or working cell for in the landfiling area
of the landfill for the dedicated sludge disposal. Sludge from Lucun WWTP and Xiqu
WWTP has been disposed in this manner in the Taohuashan and Qizishan landfills,
respectively.
During the project EA, the team visited both landfills and conducted general
inspections, observations and evaluation of the site operations and also discussed with
landfill operators on operation methods and pollution control. Based on these site
activities, the EA concluded that the landfill operations are in full compliance
applicable regulatory standards and criteria. In Februray 2004 during the EIA report
review by a SEPA convened expert panel, the experts also visited the both landfills
and they concurred with EA's observations and conclusion about compliance status of
the landfill operations and considered both landfills are operating in full compliance
with relevant state standards.
If sludge from any of the WWTPs is found to be hazardous and if the hazardous waste
landfill is not in place by 2006 as planned at the time of commissioning of the
respective WWTP, the WWTP which generate hazardous sludge will stop accepting
industrial effluent. A process will be initiate to identify the sources of the hazardous
materials tracking all the way to the industrial operation which is responsible. This



particular industry will be ordered to stop operating and stop discharging until it
complies fully with discharge standards. The termination of operation order is part of
a regulatory requirement and can be implemented through local EPB. At the same
time, any hazardous sludge already generated will be stored safely at the WWTP sites.
The temporary storage areas will have concrete or other impermeable slabs, side walls
stop any leachate from leaving the area and a canopy to protect the rain from
contacting the sludge. The sludge will be stored in the temporary storage until the
city's hazardous waste disposal facility is constructed. The temporary storage of
hazardous waste is a standard practice as the best available option in the absense of
hazardous waste disposal facilities among the country's most environmentally
responsible industrial corporations and does not conflict any applicable regulations.
4. Additional information regarding the Wuli Lake sediment dredging
component.
The dredging operation, which is not linked to the Bank financed components since it
is neither a pre-condition nor a consequence of Bank-financed components, has been
completed and dredged sediment has been disposed of at the Xuelang site, which is a
land of abandoned fish ponds and depressed areas.
According to a sampling and testing program, heavy metals in sediment from Wuli
lake are all below the Pollutant Control Standards for Agricultural Application of
Sludge (GB4284-84), as shown in Table 4-1. Disposal at the site, although not
included in the EA for the Bank-financed project, is considered appropriate.
Table 4-1 Heavy Metal Contents in the Wuli Lake Sediments
Locati  No.       organic  TP   TN     Hg    As    Cu    Cd     Pb    Cr    Zn
ocation tested  alue  %    %     %   mg/kg   gg mg/kg mg/kmg/kg mg/kg mg/kg
East       Max.   8.1   0.4   0.5   0.01   70.0  268.1  1.5  123.9 133.3 415.7
Lake   7    Min.   1.1  0.02  0.07   0.1   4.1   15.2   0.2   20.9  17.3  171.2
Ave.   5.0   0.2   0.3   0.06  39.1  120.7  0.7   67.0  71.7  321.6
Max.   4.8   0.2   0.3   0.07   29.8  92.6   1.6  110.2  190.7 315.1
West   2   Min.    3.8  0.09  0.09   0.03  17.2  60.5   0.5   44.9  52.6  51.5
Lake        Ave.  4.2    0.1   0.2   0.05  25.1  74.4   0.9   60.4  95.5  183.3
Maximum allowed  _                         75    250    5     300   600
5 Mitigatory measures for odor emissions from WWTPs
The original EA report has some errors regarding the the distances of sensitive
receptors to the WWTP boundardies. To correct the errors, Table 7.2-2 from the
original draft EA report is presented below again (note: there is no sensitive receptor
near other WWTPs). As shown in the table, Nandi village near the Anzhen WWTP
(code No. 14) and guesthouse near Loujiang WWTP (code No. 33) are located in
distances which are shorter than the protective distance. But the distances shown in
the table are those to the WWTP boundaries and if the distance to the source of
air/odor emission is added, the distance between the two sensitive receptors to the
odor sources in the WWTPs will be 210 m and 100 m, respectively. This shows that
all sensitive receptors except the Loujiang WWTP guesthouse are located beyond the



protective distances.
Table 7.2-2 Protective Targets for WWTP
Dist. to    Protective
City      WWTP         Code   Sensitive receptor  Position  WWTP         dist (in)
Boundary (m)
Huishan       10      Yanjiao town      East        500           150
11      Fire station     East         500
12      Nianyuqiao     Southeast      220
Wuxi                               village
Anzhen        13     Lejiali village  Southwest     250           200
14    Nanditian village  Northeast    180
15       Xiaolushu     Northwest      200
Dongting       18    Geqiang village  Southwest      250          200
Suzhou     Loujiang       33      Guesthouse      North         20           200
To further determine the impact of nuisance odors from      WWTP operation to the
sensitive receptors, an area emission source impact model was used in the EA to
simulate the potential impact. The model considers WWTP scale and processes to be
adopted to determine the nuisance odor intensity and then the nuisance substance
concentrations in the ambient air at the WWTP boundaries and the closest point
sensitive receptors to the WWTP. The results, presented in the draft EA report, are
presented again below with needed modifications to correct earlier errors. When
compared with the standards (Pollutants Discharge Standards of Urban Wastewater
Treatment Plants GB18918-2002 for WWTP boundaries and Industrial Enterprises
Health Design Standards TJ36-79 for sensitive receptors), all except the guesthouse of
Loujiang WWTP are expected to meet the standards.
The guesthouse is a temporary building belong to a neighbouring corporation and the
modeling results show at this location the subanstances causing nuisance odor are
expected to exceed the standards. As a mitigation, the guesthouse is to convert to
other uses not sensitive to odor. The project is to compensate to for the change.
Table 7.2-5   Suzhou WWTPAir Emission Modeling Results
Max. Conc. (mg/mr3)  Max. Conc. (mg/mr3)  Sd  (m 3)
WWTP          Location         (Wind: 3 m/s)     (Wind: 2 m/s)                   Setds
NH3       H2S      NH3      H2S     NH3     H2S
Boundary       0.1756    0.055   0.1834    0.0575   1.5   0.060      Y
Loujiang
Guesthouse     0.1733    0.0542    0.18    0.0564   0.20    0.01      N
Fuxin        Boundary       0.0314   0.0107   0.0471    0.0161   1.5   0.060      Y
E      8.40E-05  2.07E-03  1.26E-04  3.11 E-03  1.5  0.060    Y
S      3.AIE-04  7.70E-03  4.67E-04  1.16E-02  1.5  0.060     Y
Wuzhong   boundary
W      7.73E-04  1.91E-02  1.16E-03  2.87E-02  1.5  0.060     Y
N      2.68E-04  6.60E-03  4.OOE-04  9.90E-03  1.5  0.060     Y



Table 7.2-6 Wuxi WWTP Air Emission Modeling Results
Max. Conc. (mg/m3)  Max. Conc. (mg/m3)  Stds
WWTP          Location        Dist.      (Wind: 2m/s)       (Wind: 3m/s)    (mg/m 3)  Meet
(m)                                                     Stds
NH3       H2S      NH3       H2S   NH3   H2S
Huishan       Boundary                0.074682  0.009958  0.049788  0.006638  1.5  0.06  Y
Gov't & fire hall  500     0.008085  0.001078  0.00539  0.000719  0.2  0.01  Y
Boundary                0.163623  0.021529  0.109082  0.014353  1.5  0.06  Y
Dongting
Geqiang village    250     0.025865  0.003403  0.017243  0.002269  0.2  0.01  Y
Boundary          /     0.102991  0.015792  0.068661  0.010528  1.5  0.06  Y
Nianyuqiao village  220     0.015098  0.002315  0.010065  0.001543  0.2  0.01  Y
Anzhen      Lejiali village   250     0.014104  0.002163  0.009402  0.001442  0.2  0.01  Y
Nanditian village   180    0.018178 | 0.002787  0.012119  0.001858  0.2  0.01  Y
Xialushu village   200     0.018178  0.002787  0.012119  0.001858  0.2  0.01  Y
6.  Mitigatory Measures for Noise Emissions from       WWTPs and the Suzhou
Polluted River Component.
The baseline noise monitoring results, conducted during the EA, shows that at
Huishan and Loujiang WWTPs, noise is mainly from the railways, road and water
traffic on the Grand Canal on southeast and south sides of the plants. Some locations
have already exceeded the night time noise standards. The noise modeling shows that
the WWTP operation alone would not exceed the standards but when compounded
with the background/baseline noise, the noise would. More specifically, the site noise
monitoring shows that the background noise in the areas resulting mainly from the
transportation activities is 60.3 dB(A) at night, while the projected noise from
Huishan WWTP at the same locations is 39.8 dB(A). Similarly, the background noise
at the Loujiang WWTP sitie is 60.6 dB(A) at night due mainly to the industrial
operation surrounding the site. The noise from the operating Loujiang Phase I WWTP
is only 42.1 dB(A) at the WWTP boundary. The details of noise measurements are
presented in Table 7.3-1 of the original EA report showing that noise from the WWTP
operation at the boundary, either projected or actually measured from early phases, is
always lower than the background noise at the same locations. This shows that the
exceedance of noise is mainly caused by noise sources other than the WWTP
operations.
There is no sensitive receptor near Fuxin WWTP. At the Loujiang WWTP, the
neighbouring guesthouse will be impacted by the increased noise. As decribed above
(air emission mitigation measure), this guesthouse will be converted to other usees not
sensitve to noise. In directions facing sensitive receptors, including those beyond the
controlled distances and no significant impacts, several rows of trees or up to 10 m
thick of bamboo will be planted, which is expected to reduce noise levels by about 3-5
dB(A).
At the operation phase, the ship locks of the Suzhou flood control gates and shiplock
component would also generate noise. The noise prediction shows that noise at the
Xujiang shiplock would exceed the noise standards at the surrounding residential



areas. To mitigate the impact, the shiplock will be banned to operate at night time.
7. Environmental Management Organizations
The roles and responsibilities of organizations for environmental management in this
project are as follows:
Jiangsu PMO - is responsible for project preparation, coordination with the state
approval agencies, project proponents and the World Bank. In this process, the PMO
is responsible for engaging and supervising institutions to conduct and complete
project environmental impact assessment and facilitate SEPA's review and approval.
During the project implementation, the PMO will engage environmental monitoring
and supervision organizations and will also review environmental monitoring reports
and react as may be necessary with remedial actions.
City EPBs - are regulatory angecies which will be responsible for review and
approval of project component EIAs during project preparation and review
environmental monitoring reports during project implementation. The agencies are
responsible for regulatory enforcement of standards for project components (WWTP,
landfill, etc.). The agencies will inspect and supervise the implementation of the EMP
and various mitigation measures proposed for this project. More specifically, the
EPBs will
. Review environmental monitoring reports submitted by the environmental
monitoring stations;
. Inspect such facilities as Sanjiaozui sediment disposal sites, effluent discharge
facilities and sludge landfill sites
. Inspect flood/pollution control gates construction on its impacts to tourist attractions
and cultural relics sites as well as construction safety.
Project Owners - or project proponents. These include Suzhou Water Authority, Wuxi
Hydrology Bureau, Huishan Wastewater Corporation, Xishan Wastewater Corporation,
Wuzhong Wastewater Corporation and Suzhou Qingyuan Constuction Ltd. These
organizations are legally responsible for the environmental performance of their
respective WWTP facilities. They will be responsible for engaging contractors and
construction supervision and as such to ensure that environmental protection clauses
be included in the contracts with those contractors and supervision companies. They
are also responsible for preparing environmental monitoring reports and implement
any requests and requirements from EPBs and PMO. More specifically, the project
owners would:
. Prepare environmental management systems based on the EMP to be included in the
bid documents and prepare contracts
• Implement environmental management plan and training programs
. Organize bids and select contractors and in that process to ensure environmental
management and mitigation part of the contractual obligations
. Engage design institute for engineering design and EIA
. Engage certified environmental monitoring stations to conduct monitoring during
both construction and operation phases.
• Prepare and implement remedial actions should monitoring reports show
non-compliance.



Contractor - are responsible for project construction. As such they will be responsible
for implementing the mitigation measures outlined in the EMP, bid documents, design
documents and their construction contracts.
Monitoring Stations - Engaged by PMO or project owners to perform the
environmental monitoring outlined in the EMP and monitoring plan. They will also be
responsible for preparing environmental monitoring reports and submit them to EPB,
PMO and project owners for review.
An organization chart showing various organizations involved in environmental
management of the project is presented the following chart.



Environmental management system during the construction phase:
Environmental management system during the operation phase:



Organizational chart of environmental management system for the Project
8. Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
8.1 Suzhou Rehabilitation Component
Suzhou World Bank Loan Project Management Office (formly translated, incorrectly
as TBUEP by Utilizing World Bank Loans Project Office of Suzhou) is a project
management and cooridation office for the components in Suzhou city. Its role is to
assist the provincial PMO as well as its own municipal government to coordinate
project preparatin and implemention for the Suzhou component.
The role and responsibility for environmental management of Suzhou EBP (which is a
regulatory agency), Suzhou Water Authority (for river dredging) and Construciton
Management Division (for construciton of WWTs) are described in the above section.
The total construction period for the dredging component will be 2 years arranged in
the dry (non flood) season (October to May next year). The whole work will be
divided into three contract sections, i.e., Hedong New District, Xujiang and south city
area and north and east city areas. All contract sections will start dredging
simutaneously. Prior to the commencement of sediment dredging, the sediment site at
Sanjiaozui will first be prepared including draining of the fish pond, site cleanup and
preparation, temporary barge terminal, etc. The construction schedule is shown in the
following table.
Construction schedule of Suzhou river network dredging component
Component                     Construction schedule
Suzhou river network dredging (including  Oct. 2004-May 2005
construction of Sanjiaozui sediment disposal site)  Oct 2005-May 2006
The environmental monitoring plan in the EMP has been modified to increase the
frequency and sampling sites/locations. The modified monitoring plan, based on Table
5-1 of the EMP is presented as follows:



Table 5-1 Environmental monitoring plan for Suzhou river network dredging component
Type         Location    Monitoring point and cross-section  Monitoring    Frequency
I                                  I p~~~~~~~~~~~arameters
Construction Phase
Shangtang River (Xinming Bridge),                 Daily duriig 3
Dredging    Shaiigtang River (Guanuji Bidge),                 days before
Surface  rivcrs  Xiaoinidu River (Xiaomidu Bridge)   idreding and
Surface   ________weekly after- it.
water                 Waicheng River (Pingmen Bridge,    SS, Oils
Sludge      Xiangmen Bridge) Xujiang River
shipping    (Tairang Bridge), Dalonggang River,               Bimonthly
rvers        Shiziyang River (Qianwanli Bridge)
Groundwater              3 points at the site (2 at upstreamn and I pH, Total  'T'wice beforc piling
at downstreamn)                    soluble solids,  and onnce alter it.
CODMn,
NH3-N,
Effluent of  Sanjiaozui  I point at effluent outlet        phenol,        Monthly
sediment     sediment                                      N03-N, Hg,
disposal site                                  Cd, Cr6+, Cu,
As, Pb. Zn
I point at dyke ol Shiziyang River near  PMJO     Monthly
the site
Ambient air
Fuxin residential area (40 m to                   Once a day for 3
Both sides  Xuanrendagang River), Residential   Odor (H2S)   days befolr-e
of dredging  area (30 m to Shangtang River), Old              dredging and
rivers   residential area (20 m both sides of              weekly il it meet
Noise                 Qingjie River)                        Leq (A)     standard
Yangwangmiao River, Xiaomiduqiao
River(2 points), Jiuqugang River,
Dalonggang River(2 points),          H water
Caixiangbang River(2 points), Guoqiao  P,
River, Taying River, Yangjiazhuang  content,      Once before
Dredn  River, Beigan River, Qingyang River,  thickness of
Sediment     Driedg    Wojinbang River, Zhifangbang River,  sediment, Hg,  cnstruti and
SediOrivers  ld Canal, Xiangyang Bridge at   Cd, Cr., Cu,  leaching tests at the
Loujiang River, Hengtang Bridge at  As, Pb Zn,e.
Grand Canal, intersection of Dalonggang  ,  ,
River and Grand Canal, Shangtang
River, Shangtang River and Bailianbang
River.
Operation Phase
Waicheng River (Pingmen Bridge,
Xiangmen Bridge) Xujiang River
Surface      Routine  (Tairang Bridge), Dalonggang River,  pH, CODM.,
wrater   cross-sectin Shiziyang River (Qianwanli Bridge),  SS, NH3-N, TP, Bimonthly
water    cross-section Shangtang River (Xinmin Bridge),  Oils
Shangtang River (GuanjiBridge),
Xiaomidu River (Xiaomidu Bridge)
pH, Total      Once during dry,
Sanjiaozui 3 points at the site (2 at upstream and I  soluble solids,  average and wet
Groundwater sediment
disposalsd ite at downstream)                  CODM,,         seasons
disposal_____________ _ siteNH3-N,                            respectively.



phenol,
Effluent of         I point located in I km downstream  NO3-N, Hg,  Monthly in first 3
sediment           outlet.                      Cd, , Cr6+, ?Cu, years (reduce
As, Pb, Zn  frequency until the
Ambient air         1 point at Shiziyang River near the site  Odor (H2S,  site is steady)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ IF  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   N H 3)   I _ _ _ _ _ _
Note: For each of the parameters in the table, a measurement is to be made before construction as
baseline value.
8.2 Wuli Lake Rehabilitation Component
Wuxi World Bank Loan Project Management Office (formly translated, incorrectly as
TBUEP by Utilizing World Bank Loans Project Office of Wuxi) is a project management and
coordination office for project components in Wuxi City. Its role is to assist the
provincial PMO as well as its own municipal government to coordinate project
preparation and implemention for the Suzhou component.
Wuxi will engage Wuxi Environmental Monitoring Station, a certified insitution for
environmental monitoring during construction. Please note the Wuli lake dredging is
not part of the project and has been completed.
8.3 WWTPs
As described above the Suzhou and Wuxi PMOs are municipal project management
offices under their respective municipal govemments. Their roles are to assist the
provinical PMO and their own govemments to coordiate project preparation among
govemment agencies and with the World Bank. They do not own the project or
organize directly project construction.
Suzhou Qingyuan Co. Ltd., Wuzhong Wastewater Corporation, Wuxi Xishan
Wastewater Corporation and Huishan Wastewater Corporation are owners of the
WWTPs under this project. They are independed legal entities and commercially
registered corporations. The WWTP construction and operation are their main line of
business. As the legal owners of the WWTPs, these corporations will be legally
responsible for any environmental problems arised from construction and operations
of the WWTPs under their respective management.
The environmental monitoring during the construction phase will be conducted by
local environmental monitoring station which was translated incorrecly as a qualified
department. These monitoring stations are part of the government agencies and
monitoring the environment as part of the regulatory enforcement procedures. During
the operation, the monitoring stations will also be responsible for monitoring the
environment, including industrial and WWTP effluent discharges. The operational
parameters will be performed by WWTP internal laboratories for operational control.
The WWTP will also determine the wastewater characteristics of industrial effluent
connecting to the municipal sewers leading to the WWTPs, based on the design and
EIA which have been reviewed and approved by SEPA and EBPs. The industrial



effluent connecting to the municipal sewer will be monitored using online monitoring
equipment installed by WWTPs which will provide warning until disconnecting
should the monitoring show that industrial effluent exceed the sewer discharge
standards.
The online monitoring will include pH, COD, DO and other parameters as may be
appropriate.
The environmental monitoring plans presented in EMP as Tables 5-6 to 5-10 have
been modified and presented again below:
Table 5-6 Environmental monitoring plan for Fuxin WWTP during operation period
Item    Location Monitoring point     Monitoring parameters and frequency    Monitoring unit
Plant monitoring:
(a) Daily for flow*, pH*, SS, CODCr*, BOD5, NH3-N,
TP, TN, DO*, MLSS*, chloride, (* being automatic
online monitoring item),
Influent of    (b) Weekly for bacillus coli,                    Chemical
WWTP           (c) Monthly for aldehyde, oils, volatile phenol, sulfide, laboratory of
fluoride, cyanide, aniline, and,                 WWTPs
Wastewater WWTP                   (d) Twice a year for Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr6 , As, Hg, Cd, Ni,
total Cr. (Note:(c) and (d) are monitoried daily during
first 3 months, and monitoring maini pollution
parameter daily alter identifying it.
Effluent of    Supervisory monitoring: Ditto                    Qualified
WWTP           Quarterly for (a), (b), and (c)                monitoring unit
______ ______ Yearly  for  (d)_                             _ _ _ _ _ _
Water content, Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr"', As, Hg, Cd, Ni and
bacillus coli. Twice a month in first 3 months and four
ludge Sludge heap of   times a year. Water content of sludge will be measured  Chemical
Sludge  treatment WWTPs         before being covered up.                       laboratory of
unit                 Leacbhig test will he carried out twice a week in first  WWTPs
month and twice a monthi in followinig 3 inonihs and
twice a vear at last.
H2S, NH3, and odor concentration
Upwind and     I'wice a week in first monthi and monthly in first year.
downwind at    If the monitoring result shows the odor produced  Chemical
Odor            boundary of    during wastewater treatment has no obvious impact to  laboratory of
WWTP and       surrounding environment, the frequency can be    WWTPs
WWTP pumping station reduced to twice in summer and once in spring and
autumn.
4 points within  Lq()Chemical
Noise           boundary of     Twice a week in first monih and weekly in following  laboratory of
WWTP           3 months and monthly in day and night time if no  WWTPs
obvious change.
Upstream and
dowmst         Bimonthly during normal discharge, and twice a day
The   From the efuent for 2 days in case of accidental wastewater discharge
River Gran  froutlet eff at 400m downstream from the effluent outlet.  Qualified
River    Grand outlet,         Monitoring parameters are pH, CODC,, BOD5,     monitoring unit
Caa  Cai niao,  NH3-N, TP, TN, volatile phenol, I Ig, Cd, Cr , Cu, As.
Zhanta Lake,Ph. Ani anid Ni.
Yinshan and
'Xiegang sections,______________________________



Table 5-7 Environmental monitoring plan for Loujiang WWTP during operation period
Item    Location Monitoring point     Monitoring parameters and frequency    Monitoring unit
Plant monitoring:
(a) Daily for flow*, pH*, SS, CODC,*, BOD5, NH3-N,
TP, TN, DO*, MLSS*, chloride, (* being automatic
online monitoring item),
(b) Weekly for bacillus coli,                   Chemical
(c) Monthly for aldehyde, oils, volatile phenol, sulfide, laboratory of
Wastewater WWTP Effluent of       fluoride, cyanide, aniline, and,                 WWTPs
WWTP           (d) Twice a year for Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr6', As, Hg, Cd, Ni,
total Cr. (Notc:(c) an(d (d) are moniitored daily during
first 3 months, and monitoring main pollution
paraineter daily after idenlifyilg it.
Supervisory monitoring: Ditto                   Qualified
Quarterly for (a), (b), and (c)               monitoring unit
Yearly for (d)
Water content, Cu, Pb, Zn, Crb+, As, Hg, Cd, Ni and
bacillus coli. Twice a month in first 3 months and four
ludge Sludge heap of  times a year. Water content of sludge will be measured  Chemical
Sludge  treatment WWTP          before being covered up.                       laboratory of
unit  WIeachine test will be carried out twice a week ill first       WWTPs
mlonth and twice a month in following 3 months and
twice a wear at last.
H2S, NH3, and odor concentration
Upwind and      Twice a week in lirst montlh and monthly in first year.
downwind at     If the monitoring result shows the odor produced  Chemical
Odor            boundary of     during wastewater treatment has no obvious impact to laboratory of
WWTP and        surrounding environment, the frequency can be   WWTPs
WWTP pumping station   reduced to twice in summer and once in spring and
autumn.
4 points within  Leq (A)                                        Chemical
Noise           boundary of     Twice a week in first month and week;lv in followiiig  laboratory of
WWTP            3 months and monthly in day and night time if no  WWTPs
obvious change.
Xiangyangqia.  . Bimonthly during normal discharge, and twice a day
Xiangyangqiao,  for 2 days in case of accidental wastewater discharge
..   FenghuangJing,  at 400m downstream from the effluent outlet.    Qualified
River   Loujiang Kuatang, Weiting Monitoring parameters are pH, CODcr, BOD5,  monitoring unit
Village sections  NH3-N, TP, TN, volatile phenol, Hg, Cd, Cr(', Cu,
Villae secions As, Pb, Aim and Ni.                       _______



Table 5-8 Environmental monitoring plan for Wuzhong WWTP during operation period
Item    Location Monitoring point      Monitoring parameters and frequency    Monitoring unit
Plant monitoring:
(a) Daily for flow*, pH*, SS, CODcr*, BOD5, NH3-N,
TP, TN, DO*, MLSS*, chloride, (* being automatic
online monitoring item),
(b) Weekly for bacillus coli,                    Chemical
(c) Monthly for aldehyde, oils, volatile phenol,  laboratory of
Effluent of     sulfide, fluoride, cyanide, aniline, and,        WWTPs
Wastewater WWTP WWTP               (d) Twice a year for Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr6+, As, Hg, Cd, Ni,
total Cr. (Notc:(c) and (d) are monitored daily during
first 3 months, and monitorinig main pollution
parameter daily after identifying it.
Supervisory monitoring: Ditto           Environmental
Supervlsory monitoing: Ditto                    Monitoring
Quarterly for (a), (b), and (c)              Station (EMS) of
Yearly for (d)                               Wuzhong district
Water content, Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr?, As, Hg, Cd, Ni and  Chemical
bacillus coli. Twice a month in first 3 months and four  laborat
Sludge                 times a year. Water content of sludge will be measured  laboratory of
Sludge  treatment Sludge heap of  before being covered up.
unit  WWTPs           Leachilg test will be carried out twice a week in first
monitlh and twice a montlh in following 3 tonthls and
twice a year at last.
H2S, NH3, and odor concentration
Upwind and      Twice a week in first monthi and monthly in first year.
downwind at     If the monitoring result shows the odor produced  Chemical
Odor            boundary of     during wastewater treatment has no obvious impact  laboratory of
WWTP and        to surrounding environment, the frequency can be  WWTPs
WWTP pumping station    reduced to twice in summer and once in spring and
autumn.
4 points within  Lq()Chemrical
Noise  boundary wi  Twvice a week in lirst month and weekly in followinlabohemica
WWTP            3 months and monthly in day and night time if no  WWTPs
obvious change.
Bimonthly during normal discharge, and twice a day
The   Upstream and    for 2 days in case of accidental wastewater discharge  Environmental
River    Grand 400m downstream at 400m downstream from the effluent outlet.     Monitoring
R Gandl from the effluent Monitoring parameters are pH, CODcr, BOD5,  Station (EMS) of
Canal outlet.          NH3-N, TP, TN, volatile phenol, Hg. Cd, Cr6'. C'u,  Wuzhong district
As. PI), An and Ni.



Table 5-9 Environmental monitoring plan for Huishan WWTP during operation period
Item    Location  Monitoring point     Monitoring parameters and frequency   Monitoring unit
Plant monitoring:
(a) Daily for flow*, pH*, SS, CODC,*, BOD5,
NH3-N, TP, TN, DO*, MLSS*, chloride, (* being
automatic online monitoring item),
(b) Weekly for bacillus coli,                 Chemical
(c) Monthly for aldehyde, oils, volatile phenol,  laboratory of
sulfide, fluoride, cyanide, aniline, and,      WWTPs
Wastewater WWTP Effluent of WWTP (d) Twice a year for Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr6+, As, Hg, Cd,
Ni, total Cr. (Note:(c) and (d) are monitored daily
during first 3 months, and monitoring main
pol lution parameter daily after identifying it.
.   . .  .                  ~~~~~~Environmental
Supervisory monitoring: Ditto                Mnitong
Yearly for (d)                             Station (EMS) of
Huishan district
Water content, Cu, Pb, Zn, CrO', As, Hg, Cd, Ni and
bacillus coli. Twice a month in first 3 months and
ludge Sfour times a year. Water content of sludge will be              Chemical
Sludge  treatment Sludge heap of  measured before being covered up.            laboratory of
unit        s           Leaching test will be carried out twice a week in  WWTPs
Iii st m(onth and twice a monitlh in following 3
montlis and twice a year at last.
H2S, NH3, and odor concentration
Upwind and       Twice a week in first month and monthly in first
downwind at       year. If the monitoring result shows the odor  Chemical
Odor            boundary of WWTP produced during wastewater treatment has no  laboratory of
and pumping      obvious impact to surrounding environment, the  WWTPs
WWTP station             frequency can be reduced to twice in summer and
once in spring and autumn.
4 points within  Leq (A)                                        Chemical
Twvice a wseek in first monthl and ueeklv     Chemical
Noise            boundary of      Twcawe in fis mnonthly idwe in             laboratory of
WWTP              following 3 nionths and monthly in day and night  WWTPs
time if no obvious change.
Bimonthly during normal discharge, and twice a
Upstream and 400m day for 2 days in case of accidental wastewater  Environmental
River     Xibei downstream from   discharge at 400m downstream from the effluent  Monitoring
Canal                   outlet. Monitoring parameters are pH, CODcr,  Station (EMS) of
the effluent outlet. BOD5, NH3-N, TP, TN, volatile phenol, Hg, C'd,  Huishan district
Cr(", Cu, As, Pb. An and Ni.
2



Table 5-10 Environmental monitoring plan for Dongting and Anzhen WWTP during operation
Item     Location  Monitoring point   Monitoring parameters and frequency  Monitoring unit
Plant monitoring:
(a) Daily for flow*, pH*, SS, CODcr*, BOD5,
NH3-N, TP, TN, DO*, MLSS*, chloride,
colourity (* being automatic online monitoring  Chemical
item),laoaoyf
(b) Weekly for bacillus coli, and        laboratory of
Wastewater   WWTP     Effluent of    (c) Monthly for aldehyde, oils, volatile phenol,  s
WWTP           sulfide, fluoride, cyanide, aniline, anionic
surfactant, Cu, Pb, Zn, Cr6+, As, Hg, Cd, Ni,
total Cr.
Environmental
Supervisory monitoring:                Monitoring Station
Quarterly for (a), (b), and (c)         (EMS) of Xishan
district
Water content, Cu, Pb, Zn, Crb+, As, Hg, Cd, Ni
and bacillus coli. Twice a month in first 3
Sludge   Sludge heap of  months (leaching test at the meantime) and four  Chemical
Sludge  treatment unit WWTPs       times a year (including twice leaching test).  laboratory of
Water content of sludge will be measured before  s
being covered up.
H,S, Ni3, and odor concentration
Upwind and     Monthly in first year. If the monitoring result
downwind at    shows the odor produced during wastewater  Chemical
Odor               boundary of    treatment has no obvious impact to surrounding  laboratory of
WWTP     WWTP and        environment, the frequency can be reduced to  WWTPs
pumping station  twice in summer and once in spring and
autumn.
4 points within  Leq (A)                                  Chemical
Noise               boundary of    Weekly in first 3 months and monthly in day  laboratory of
WWTP           and night time if no obvious change.        WWTPs
Bimonthly during normal discharge, and twice
Upstream and   a day for 2 days in case of accidental     Environmental
Xinxingtang 400m           wastewater discharge at 400m downstream  Monitoring Station
River       and    downstream from from the effluent outlet. Monitoring parameters (EMS) of Xishan
Wanshandang effluent outlet.  are pH, CODcr, BOD5, NH3-N, TP, TN, volatile  district
phenol.
9. Environmental Management and Monitoring Cost
The environmental management and monitoring costs have been updated to reflect the
changes and modifications made in this supplementary information. The costs are
summarized in the table below.
3



Suzhou River Rehabilitation Environmental Management and Monitoring Cost
Item                   Phase           Cost (x10,000 Yuan)
Surface water           Construction             0.2
Groundwater             Construction             1.7
(include sediment leachate)   Operation               1.7
Construction              1.0
Air monitoring           Operation                0.5
Noise                Construction              1.5
Environmental management                   2.0
Total                            8.6
Monitoring Costs for one WWTP
Items                  Phases           Cost (x10,000 Yuan)
Construction              0.4
Surface water           Oeain2
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _Operation              21
Construction              0.4
Noise_______Operation                        0.9
Air                Construction             0.9
Sludge               Operation                3.4
Total                             27.0
The above table is based on the experience of the operating Fuxin WWTP Phase I. As the six
WWTPs have different scales and different levels of impacts due to the differences in the
surrounding conditions and WWTP layouts, the monitoring costs would be different.
Basically, Anzhen and Wuzhong WWTP at 20-25,000 t/d, the monitoring cost would be
190,000 Yuan, Huishan and Dongting WWTP at 50,000 t/d the monitoring cost would be
230,000 Yuan and Loujiang and Fuxin WWTP with capacity of over 100,000 t/d, the
monitoring cost would be 270,000 Yuan. The total monitoring costs for six WWTPs will be
1,380,000 Yuan and the total for all project components will be 1,854,000 Yuan.
10.    Staff Training Program
The agenies to be included in the staff training programs include the following:
. PMO
. City EBPs
. Project onwers (the water authority, hydrology bureau and WWTP corporations)
. Monitoring stations
. EA institutions
For the construction training, the organizations to be included in the training programs will
also include contractors, construction supervision companies, landfill operators and WWTP
operators.
The staff in the training will be:
. Project management
. Environmental management and environmental regulators
4



. Technical and engineering staff in the PMO and project owners
. Chemical analysts and monitoring staff
. Landfill and WWTP operators
. For contractor training, one deputy general manager and one site environmental staff from
each of the contractors and construction supervision companies.
The criteria used to select staff for domestic and overseas training program include:
. Working directly and indirectly on the project
. Having certain management or technical positions with their respective organizations
. Basic knowledge of environmental management and/or technical background
. Minimum of one year of similar experience
. (overseas training program only) sufficient command of English language.
11. Sewer Network Impact Assessment and Mitigation
Impact assessments for sewer network construction and mitigation have been included in the
original EA and EMP reports. The following is supplementary information.
The sewer network for Wuzhong in Suzhou and Anzhen, Dongting and Huishan WWTPs
are part of the World Bank financed projects while the Loujiang and Fuxin WWTP do not
have sewer network components. The wastewater collection systems in Huishan, Anzhen
and Wuzhong sewer network services are mostly to be constructed on the green field,
together with road and other infrastructure. Impacts from the construction of these sewer
lines are limited as the project areas will still be under development with minimum
sensitive receptors. In other sewer service areas, sewer lines are needed to construct, at
least partially, in urban built up areas. Main potentially adverse impacts will be block of
urban traffic, airborne dust during excavation, noise from machinery, outing and
convenience of local residents and construction safety to the general public.
The impacts of the sewer network components are primarily in the construction phase and
once completed, the sewer networks will be underground and will have little impacts to the
environment and communities during the operation phase. The main impacts of sewer
network construction are:
. Noise - large machineries for digging, pipeline positioning, backfilling and road pavement
will be used during sewer line construction. In addition, there will be increased traffic
during construction for pipe transportation from manufacturers to the construction sites. If
closely located to the construction sites, the receptors will be impacted by increased noise.
Experience from the past project experiences indicate that noise impacts may extend to
areas up to 100 m from the noise source during the day time and longer at night.
. Airborne dust - excavation, earth piling and backfilling and traffic movement will result
in airborne dust affecting ambient air quality. If without any mitigation measure, the dust
concentration is expected to reach 2.89 mg/mi3 20 m from such an activity and to reduce
to 0.86 mg/mi3 100 m from the site. Therefore, the impact will be limited to residents
located within 100 m from the construction sites and along the both sides of construction
materials transportation routes.
. Surface runoff - Once soil is disturbed and exposed soil will be vulnerable for erosion. As a
5



result, the surface runoff could contain high suspended solids. In the areas with abundant
surface water bodies, surface runoff would enter the surface water bodies quickly, along
with it suspended solids, which will affect the surface water quality.
* Traffic - sewer line construction is mostly along the existing or newly built roads. During
the construction, a large portion of the roads will be occupied by the construction activities,
stockpiles of soil and construction machineries. Road capacity would be seriously reduced
and traffic blocked.
* Convenience - The excavated roads would cause inconvenience to residents living near the
roads for their outings. The shops, schools, hospitals and other public services located on
the roadside will also be affected for inconvenience to access.
* Safety - Once the roads are excavated, they would be a potential safety hazard. Particularly
at night, falling risks would further increase if the construction sites were not well lit. Since
the construction sites are mostly in urban areas and cannot always be sealed from the
communities, construction activities such as machinery movement will also create safety
hazards to residents particularly students who may have low safety awareness.
Mitigation measures are:
* Nighttime construction as well as construction in sensitive time such as noon nap time and
school exams time will be banned to reduce the noise impacts. Low noise construction
machines will be used where possible. The construction should also be scheduled carefully
to avoid sensitive time and to complete as quickly as possible for a given section.
* Stockpile for materials and main transportation roads will be watered in dry and windy days
to suppress the dust from airborne. Truck tires will be washed before leaving the
construction sties. Soil except that to be used as backfill should be truck out of the
construction sites as quickly as possible.
* Stockpile soil will be carefully planned if possible to minimize the potential of erosion and
quick discharge into the surface water bodies. In sensitive water bodies such as those with
fish resources, temporary holding ponds may be built to intercept the surface runoff before
discharging into the water.
* Traffic will be better planned together with the traffic police prior to the construction. For
seriously affected roads, temporary one-way street may be created. The roads may also ban
motor vehicles except buses and taxi to accommodate the reduced road capacity and to
reduce the impact to the traffic. The public will be informed ahead of the construction and
detour will be proposed to the residents as a temporary measure.
* Although the roads may be excavated, safe and convenient crossing by wood boards will be
provided to residential building entrances, as well as school and hospital gates, large stores
and other important services and public areas. The crossings should be wide and strong
enough to allow both pedestrians and non-motor vehicles (bicycles) to cross.
* The construction will be maintained in good housekeeping to reduce the site safety risks.
The key pedestrians areas will be well lit during the night. High-risk areas such as deep pits,
etc. will be fenced off the public.
* The project proponents and contractors will maintain continued and timely public
consultation during the construction. Contact information including names and telephone
numbers will be provided at the construction sites to allow the residents to voice their
concerns if any about the construction activities and impact to their daily life.
6



