                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001641



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-47480)


                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                   US$61.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                           PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

                    TAI BASIN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT



                                     June 29, 2011




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2011

                 Currency Unit = Renminbi
                  RMB1.00 = US$0.154
                    US$1.00 = RMB6.4

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 - December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD         Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
COD         Chemical Oxygen Demand
DFMD        Drainage Facilities Management Division (Suzhou)
EA          Environmental Assessment
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EPB         Environmental Protection Bureau
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GIS         Geographic Information System
HWTC        Huishan Water Treatment Company Limited
IDT         Institutional Development Training
IT          Information Technology
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NH3-N       Ammonia Nitrogen
NDRC        National Development Reform Commission
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PAP         Project Affected Persons
PDO         Project Development Objective
PH          Phosphorus
PIU         Project Implementing Unit
PMO         Project Management Office
PSP         Private Sector Participation
RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
RCR         Resettlement Completion Report
SDC         Suzhou Drainage Company
SQCC        Suzhou Qingyuan Construction Company Limited
SWAB        Suzhou Water Affairs Bureau
TBUEP(O)    Tai Basin Urban Environment Project (Office)

                             i
TP       Total Phosphorus
WAMC     Wuzhong Asset Management and Administration Company
WMG      Wuxi Municipal Government
WWTP     Wastewater Treatment Plant
XEDZ     Xishan Economic Development Zone
XWTC     Xishan Wastewater Treatment Company

            Vice President: Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
          Country Director: Mr. Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                              Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS/
          Sector Managers:
                              Mr. Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
       Project Team Leader: Ms. Toyoko Kodama, EASIN
         ICR Team Leader: Ms. Toyoko Kodama, EASIN




                             ii
                                                    CHINA
                                      Tai Basin Urban Environment Project




                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Resettlement Implementation........................................................................ 30
  Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 34
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 47
  Annex 8: Environmental Monitoring Indicators ........................................................... 48
  Annex 9: Status of Compliance with Key Covenants................................................... 57
  MAPS CHN32768/CHN32769




                                                                  iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                            TAI BASIN URBAN
Country:                China                     Project Name:             ENVIRONMENT
                                                                            PROJECT
Project ID:             P057933                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47480
ICR Date:               01/12/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 PRC
Original Total
                        US$61.0M                  Disbursed Amount:         US$57.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         US$57.5M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Tai Basin Project Management Office (PMO)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process             Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         05/14/2003    Effectiveness:              12/20/2004           12/20/2004
Appraisal:              11/10/2003    Restructuring(s):                                07/14/2009
Approval:               08/03/2004    Mid-term Review:            10/31/2007           09/03/2007
                                      Closing:                    12/31/2009           06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                 Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                             No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                          Quality of Supervision
                             No                                              None
(Yes/No):                                             (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                          10                      10
Sewerage                                                                  90                      90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                     14                     14
Other urban development                                                    28                     28
Pollution management and environmental health                              29                     29
Water resource management                                                  29                     29

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              James W. Adams                         Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:            Klaus Rohland                          Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:              Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez               Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:         Toyoko Kodama                          Stuart Whitehead
ICR Team Leader:             Toyoko Kodama


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the quality of life of the rapidly increasing urban population and enhance economic
competitiveness in Wuxi and Suzhou, key municipalities in the Tai Basin and the Yangtze River
Delta economic region, by alleviating degradation of water resources and improving the quality
of the urban environment.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.

                                                      v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                                     Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                   Revised
                                                       approval                           Completion or
                                                                      Target Values
                                                     documents)                            Target Years
                  Reduction in proportion of untreated wastewater in urban and rapid growing suburban
Indicator 1 :
                  project areas.
                                                 Suzhou: 90%;
                                                                                      Suzhou: 85%;
Value             Suzhou: 0%;                    Xishan: 85%
                                                                                      Xishan: 83% (Urban)
quantitative or   Wuxi Xishan: nearly 0%; (Urban) and 70%
                                                                                      and 62% (Town);
Qualitative)      Wuxi Huishan: nearly 0% (Town); Huishan:
                                                                                      Huishan: 80%
                                                 90%
Date achieved     04/26/2005                     12/31/2009                           06/30/2010
                  Mostly achieved. Actual capacity installed increased from 280,000 cubic meters per day
Comments
                  (m3/d) to 305,000 m3/d; however, the reduction in the proportion of untreated
(incl. %
                  wastewater fell short of the target because the project areas grew much faster than
achievement)
                  originally projected.
                  Cleaner urban water environment and improved livability in the two major urban and
Indicator 2 :
                  tourism centers.
                                                                                      Some data show
Value                                                                                 initial improvements
quantitative or   Not indicated.                 Not indicated.                       in some
Qualitative)                                                                          environmental
                                                                                      indicators.
Date achieved     04/26/2004                     12/31/2009                           06/30/2010
Comments          Uncertain. All the financed wastewater treatment plants are operating under the Class
(incl. %          1A standards, and the water quality of receiving water bodies has improved. However,
achievement)      there is no clear way to measure improved livability.
                  Sound enterprise capital structure with manageable debt, experienced and cost effective
Indicator 3 :     operations, financial autonomy and adequate cost recovery as well as satisfactory level
                  of capacity utilization at project-financed WWTPs.
                                                                                      -All wastewater
                                                                                      companies
                  Wastewater companies
Value                                            All wastewater                       corporatized;
                  either not established or not
quantitative or                                  companies fully                      -Wastewater
                  operating as independent
Qualitative)                                     corporatized.                        companies not
                  corporate entities.
                                                                                      authorized to levy
                                                                                      and collect tariffs
Date achieved     04/26/2004                     12/31/2009                           06/30/2010
                  Partially achieved; however, the levels of autonomy, financial viability and
Comments
                  sustainability granted were limited (see Annex 9). The capacity utilization of the
(incl. %
                  project-financed plants is high, and further expansions are planned in some project
achievement)
                  areas.
                  Updating/preparation of wastewater master plans covering city and rapidly growing
Indicator 4 :
                  areas in Wuxi and Suzhou.
Value                                            Wastewater master                    The Suzhou master
                  N/A
quantitative or                                  plans for Wuxi and                   plan was approved in

                                                    vi
Qualitative)                                  Suzhou                                early 2010.
                                              municipalities are                    The Wuxi master
                                              updated.                              plan was completed
                                                                                    in March 2010, and it
                                                                                    is under review.
Date achieved     04/26/2004                  12/31/2009                            06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                  Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                    approval                              Completion or
                                                                         Values
                                                   documents)                              Target Years
                  i) Area covered, households connected and wastewater flows collected and treated
Indicator 1 :     meeting the government objectives; and ii) quality of discharge from WWTPs meeting
                  standards.
                                                                                      i) Total capacity
                                                                                      installed 305,000
                                                                                      m3/d
                                              i) Total capacity     i) Total capacity Coverage: Huishan-
Value             160,000 m3/d wastewater
                                              installed 280,000     installed         85%; Xishan in
(quantitative     treatment capacity in the
                                              m3/d                  305,000 m3/d Wuxi-87.5%; and,
or Qualitative)   project area
                                              ii) Class 1B          ii) Class 1A      and Fuxin and
                                                                                      Loujiang in Suzhou-
                                                                                      92%.
                                                                                      ii) Class 1A
Date achieved     04/26/2004                  12/31/2009            07/14/2009        06/30/2010
Comments
                  Achieved. Additional capacity of 25,000 m3/d was constructed in Huishan. The project
(incl. %
                  contributed to increasing the service coverage ratio.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Direct transfer of wastewater revenues to wastewater enterprises in Wuxi and Suzhou.
Value
(quantitative     0                           100%                                  100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/26/2004                  12/31/2009                            10/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Municipal Finance Bureau transferred all revenue collected to the districts.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Improved ambient water quality in main monitoring indicators.
                                                                                    Suzhou: PV7.0;
                                                                                    Wuxi Xishan:
Value             Suzhou: PV6.9;                                                    Chemical oxygen
(quantitative     Wuxi Xishan: N/A;           No target indicated.                  demand (COD) 30-
or Qualitative)   Wuxi Huishan: N/A                                                 40mg/l;
                                                                                    Wuxi Huishan: 6.4
                                                                                    mg/l

                                                   vii
 Date achieved    04/26/2004                                                          12/31/2009
Comments          Unclear. It is not possible to ascertain whether the ambient water quality has improved
(incl. %          without clear target. Some environmental data (See Annex 8) that the water quality of
achievement)      the receiving water bodies has gradually improved in some parameters.
Indicator 4 :     Satisfactory level of capacity utilization at project financed WWTPs.
                  Suzhou: 73%;                   Suzhou: 85%;                         Suzhou: 100%;
Value             Wuxi Xishan: 70%               Wuxi Xishan: 90%                     Wuxi Xishan: 100%
(quantitative     (Dongting) and 0%              (Dongting) and 60%                   (Dongting) and 70%
or Qualitative)   (Anzhen);                      (Anzhen);                            (Anzhen);
                  Wuxi Huishan: 0%               Wuxi Huishan: 90%                    Wuxi Huishan: 100%
Date achieved     04/26/2004                     12/31/2009                           06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. Capacity utilizations were about 70% to 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     TA and institutional and financial training.
Value             Staff trained:                                                     Staff trained:
(quantitative     Suzhou: 100;                  No target indicated.                 Suzhou: 150;
or Qualitative)   Wuxi: 0                                                            Wuxi: 84
Date achieved     04/26/2004                                                         12/31/2009
Comments          There was no clear target defined. Nevertheless, all the WWTPs have staff with
(incl. %          adequate skill sets to operate and manage the plants. The training under the project
achievement)      contributed to the development of this institutional capacity.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                              IP
          Archived                                                                      (US$ millions)
  1      09/30/2004           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                       0.00
  2      06/14/2005           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                       4.62
  3      04/11/2006           Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory               12.17
  4      06/19/2007           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      26.82
  5      03/31/2008           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      34.67
  6      06/25/2009       Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               46.82
  7      01/21/2010           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      54.04



H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in US$ millions
                                                           Additional works to utilize loan
                                                           savings arising from the deletion
  07/14/2009        N        MS      MS          46.82     of one subproject, increase of civil
                                                           works disbursement percentage to
                                                           100 percent and extend the loan

                                                    viii
                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP    in US$ millions
                                                           closing date by six months.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Deterioration of water quality in Lake Tai and Tai Basin rivers has been a key
concern for Jiangsu Provincial Government, indeed for the country, because of the
importance of these water bodies as primary water sources for the region. The Tai
Basin is an integral part of the Yangtze economic region that also includes Shanghai
Municipality and Zhejiang Province. It is one of the most prosperous regions in China,
with GDP growth of 10 percent per annum over the past two decades. However, the
provision of environmental infrastructure, including collection and treatment of
wastewater, lagged behind the area’s rapid economic growth. By 2000, the increasing
discharges of untreated industrial and municipal wastewater put the river system under
severe environmental pressure. Water quality in rivers and canals in Suzhou and Wuxi,
two cities north of Tai Lake, continued to degrade to worse than Class V standard (the
lowest class in the Chinese classification system).

2.      In response to the situation, the national and local governments established
policies and action plans to improve the water environment of Lake Tai. The State
Environmental Protection Administration issued the “Three Lakes and Five Rivers
Policy” in 1999 and identified Lake Tai as one of the three lakes to receive high
environmental priority. In Jiangsu Province, an action plan was formulated under the
Tenth Five Year Plan (2001-2005). It emphasized increasing the collection and
treatment of point-source pollution in cities, districts, counties and small towns and the
circulation of water in the Basin’s rivers and streams through water transfers from the
Yangtze River. This plan translated into expanding the collection and treatment of
wastewater, reducing total phosphorus (TP) discharges to the heavily polluted water
bodies, rehabilitating Wuli Lake and Meiliang Lake, transferring Yangtze River water,
and strengthening local capacity for water environment monitoring and management.
Remedial plans were implemented, and key polluting industries were closely
monitored to reduce pollution discharges.

3.       In spite of these efforts, results were limited partly due to fragmented urban
water supply and wastewater services. Cities, counties and districts were individually
responsible for providing services in their respective areas, and there was a lack of:
regional planning, inter-jurisdictional coordination, consolidation of wastewater
investments, an effective regulatory framework, and environmental monitoring and
enforcement -- all of which limited the effectiveness of the investments as well as the
ability to realize economies of scale. In addition, district wastewater authorities had no
legal basis for collecting revenue from wastewater services provided because the
wastewater fee was considered government revenue, which was collected by the
Municipal Finance Bureau which in turn provided a portion of the revenue collected to
the wastewater agencies to meet operation and maintenance (O&M) costs. In this



                                             1
context, the Jiangsu Provincial Government requested the Tai Basin Urban
Environment Project (TBUEP) as described below.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.      The PDO was to improve the quality of life of the rapidly increasing urban
population and enhance economic competitiveness in Wuxi and Suzhou, key
municipalities in the Tai Basin and the Yangtze River Delta economic region, by
alleviating degradation of water resources and improving the quality of the urban
environment.

5.      The key performance indicators in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
were: (i) reduction of the proportion of untreated wastewater discharges in Wuxi and
Suzhou Municipalities; (ii) cost-effective and autonomous operation of wastewater
treatment systems and capacity utilization for wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs)
under the project; and (iii) cost recovery by wastewater enterprises to ensure
sustainability. While the indicators were appropriate for the latter part of the PDO, they
do not cover the overall ultimate goal of quality of life improvement in specific ways.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification: Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

6.     The PAD indicates that the primary beneficiaries were the project cities and
residents of Suzhou Municipality, Xishan District including the Xishan Economic
Development Zone and Huishan District. The project was also to benefit Wuxi
Municipality through support for its comprehensive program to improve water quality
in Lake Tai through reduction of point source pollution resulting from untreated
municipal wastewater that would have otherwise entered Lake Tai. The number of
beneficiaries in the service areas of the investments made was about 2.2 million.1

1.5 Original Components

(1) Wuxi Municipality

7.     Wuli Lake Rehabilitation (US$35million: 19.6% of total project cost): (i)
construction of pollution control facilities (sluice gates and ship locks) on selected
canals and streams that connect Wuli Lake; (ii) rehabilitation of selected sections of
embankments around Wuli Lake; and (iii) ecological rehabilitation, on a pilot basis, in
one or more selected areas of Wuli Lake. The investment aimed to reduce internal


1
    The number of beneficiaries in the PAD was 5 million, but it appears to have been over-estimated
because the population of the project areas was not that big.

                                                      2
pollution coming from deposited lake bed sediments, thereby improving water quality
in Wuli Lake and eventually contributing to water quality improvements in Lake Tai.

8.      Wastewater Treatment Plants and Networks (US$68.5 million; 38.3% of
total project cost): (i) construction of the first phase of the Chenbei-Huishan WWTP
in Huishan District with a capacity of 25,000 m3/d of secondary wastewater treatment,
and the associated sewer network to convey sewage flows, with about 58 km of sewers
to serve the Changan and Youqiao industrial areas; (ii) expansion of the existing
Dongting wastewater treatment plant in Xishan District to increase the plant capacity
from 20,000 m3/d to 50,000 m3/d and construction of about 40 km of associated
sewers; (iii) construction of a 20,000 m3/d capacity secondary wastewater treatment
plant in Xishan District (i.e., Anzhen), and about 146 km of associated sewers to serve
Anzhen, Houqiao and Yangjian townships and Wuxi East Industrial Park, all within
Xishan District. The investment aimed to reduce point-source pollution discharges to
the river system, focusing on smaller urban districts.

(2) Suzhou Municipality

9.     Urban Area Canal Network Rehabilitation (US$19.7 million; 11% of total
project cost): (i) construction of control gates (sluice gates and ship locks) on Xujiang
River and Shangtang River; and (ii) sediment dredging in canals in the core urban area
of Suzhou. The investment aimed to control flooding and regulate water flows to the
Grand Canal.

10.    Wastewater Treatment Plants and Networks (US$49.4 million; 27.7% of
total project cost): (i) construction of the second phase of the Fuxin secondary
wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 100,000 m3/d; (ii) construction of the
second phase of the Loujiang secondary treatment plant with a capacity of 80,000
m3/d; and (iii) construction of the first phase of a secondary wastewater treatment plant
with a capacity of 25,000 m3/d and about 43 km of associated sewers to serve the
Wuzhong Economic Development Zone in Wuzhong District. The investment aimed to
reduce point-source pollution discharges to the river system, focusing on the core
urban area of Suzhou.

(3) Implementation Management and Sector Development Assistance (US$ 1.9
million; 1.1% of total project cost)

11.    This component provided technical assistance and equipment to: (i) develop
municipality-wide wastewater management master plans for Wuxi and Suzhou; (ii)
enhance the capacities of project implementing agencies to operate and manage
wastewater utility operations as autonomous and financially sustainable entities in a
commercial and competitive environment; and (iii) enhance capacity of implementing
agencies to implement the project, including design reviews, procurement and project
management, and construction management. The component aimed to enhance the

                                             3
capacity of agencies for planning, procurement, project management, contract
management and utility management, and to enhance sustainability.

1.6 Revised Components

12.    Three revisions were made:

(a) Under Component 1(a), Wuli Lake rehabilitation was implemented using local
funds because there was pressure on the Wuxi Municipal Government to clean up Lake
Tai quickly because of frequent algae blooms, and to accelerate implementation using
less onerous domestic procurement procedures;
(b) under Component 2(b), the wastewater component in Wuzhong District was
cancelled because the District pursued private financing due to a shortage of
counterpart funds; and
(c) with loan savings from Wuli Lake rehabilitation and the Wuzhong WWTP, the
project financed a second phase of construction of the Huishan WWTP to increase
capacity by 25,000 m3/d with tertiary treatment.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.      Amendment to Legal Agreements. Legal agreements were amended in July
2009, at the request of the Borrower, to: (i) delete the Wuzhong subcomponent; (ii)
include additional work on the Huishan WWTP (i.e., 25,000 m3/d increased capacity);
(iii) increase the disbursement percentage for works and goods from 57 percent to 100
percent to use loan savings; and (iv) extend the loan closing date by six months to
complete the additional works at Huishan. The amendment was approved by the
Country Director.

14.    Enhanced Treated Wastewater Discharge Standard. During project
implementation, the Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) mandated that
all WWTPs in the Lake Tai Protection Area reach the Class 1A discharge standard,
which required addition of relatively costly tertiary treatment at all treatment plants
constructed under the project. Additional goods and works required to meet the higher
standard were financed by counterpart funds, except for the second phase of the
Huishan WWTP, for which the project financed tertiary treatment.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

15.    Rationale for Bank’s Intervention. The project supported several key themes of
the Country Assistance Strategy in effect at the time, including: improving water
resources management and ensuring environmentally sustainable urban development.
The project was consistent with the Bank’s Urban Sector Strategy and Water Sector

                                            4
Strategy, which emphasized improved livability and economic competitiveness and
promoted sustainable wastewater and water resources management. The value addition
of the Bank’s involvement in project design was to demonstrate cost-effective and
sustainable approaches to managing wastewater systems through rationalizing
planning, optimizing facilities, and promoting more financially sustainable and
autonomous utility companies.

16.      Soundness of the Background Analysis. Analysis done during project
preparation revealed the inherent inefficiencies in: the fragmentation of wastewater
service provision in the two municipalities; the absence of utility practices because
services were provided by government sanitation divisions; and the lack of long-term
investment planning to reduce the discharge of untreated wastewater to the river
systems. Lessons were drawn from the Bank’s experience in the sector in China and
East Asia to support the analysis. However, the appraisal team underestimated local
institutional complexities, and incorporated an institutional and financial reform
agenda that was far too pioneering in the local context and had little chance of
realization (See 5.1 (a)).

17.     Project Development Objective and Technical Design were appropriate to
address the key sector issues, and primarily targeted “alleviating degradation of water
resources and improving the quality of the urban environment.” However, the broader
objective of improving quality of life was less amenable to practical measurements.
Project design was technically comprehensive, but it did not include adequate technical
assistance for implementation of the reform agenda, which was quite ambitious,
comprising: (i) consolidation of wastewater services to achieve economies of scale
through merger of district wastewater services; (ii) conversion of the wastewater fee to
a commercial tariff; (iii) wastewater companies to levy and collect revenues for
wastewater services provided; (iv) return of all wastewater revenues to the districts
where the services were provided; and (v) financial performance criteria relating to
recovery of full operating costs with no provision for non-operating income or
government subsidies. These reforms were reflected in the key performance indicators
(KPI), but not in the PDO. The KPI also should have included measures of urban
environment quality improvement to better reflect the PDO.

18.     Risk Assessment. Risks assessed and mitigation measures incorporated in the
project design included: prioritization of investments; selection of small districts to
address pollution discharges in a more comprehensive manner; and phased expansion
of treatment capacity and network expansion so as not to create excess capacity.
However, the Bank’s risk assessment was weak, as some risks that were not
anticipated surfaced during project implementation. These include the possibility that
some Districts would withdraw from the project due to counterpart funds shortage and
access to other financing options; the commitment of the Government to realize the
ambitious reform agenda; and the institutional challenges of merging wastewater
services.

                                            5
19.     Other factors that affected outcomes were: the relatively small size of the loan
for the wealthy southern part of Jiangsu Province; the long time that elapsed between
project identification and the project concept review; requirements for project
preparation and participation; and the perceived onerous procurement procedures.
These factors may have resulted in: the loss of potential subprojects, reduced project
leverage, pushing Wuxi to use local funds for the Wuli Lake rehabilitation; and the
withdrawal of Wuzhong District.

2.2 Implementation

20.      Physical Investments. Overall, physical implementation of the project was
successful and exceeded the targets. The project was completed at 85.4 percent of the
budget, even though one subcomponent was deleted and another brought in to replace
it, as illustrated in Annex 1. Besides the scope changes described in Section 1.6, the
Bank declined to finance one civil works contract under the Suzhou Urban Canal
Rehabilitation subproject because of a considerable delay in reaching a bid award
decision, and the subsequent withdrawal of the winning bidder due to increased costs.

21.      Institutional and Financial Reforms. The project intended to promote
institutional and financial reforms, as covenanted in the legal agreements. The results
were somewhat mixed because of an over-optimistic assessment during project
appraisal (see Section 5.1). The performance regarding compliance with the covenants
was also influenced by changes in the domestic requirements in discharge standards
and the lack of incentives for utility companies to promote efficiencies in utility
operations (see Section 5.2(a)). Status of compliance with these particular covenants is
summarized in Annex 9.

22.     Wastewater Master Plan (2007-2020) Preparation. The wastewater master
plans for both Suzhou and Wuxi were updated. The Suzhou plan was approved in early
2010. The Wuxi master plan, which was completed in March 2010, was under review
pending approval at loan closure. There was inadequate priority given to this task by
the counterpart to ensure rapid and cost-effective completion, given their continued
focus on the investments financed by the project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

23.     M&E design. Performance indicators listed in the PAD covered both technical
and institutional components of the project, but some of them were not clearly defined.
There were indicators that had no baseline data or final targets. Two out of three KPIs
focused on the institutional reforms that the PDO did not include. In addition, the
Project Agreement did not have the same KPIs as in the PAD, and the side letter (from
negotiations) listed simple output indicators, and no outcome indicators to measure
achievement of the PDO. As indicated before, the KPIs also should have included

                                            6
measures of urban environment quality improvement, and the PDO should have
avoided the broader (and difficult to measure in the context of this project) objective of
improvement of quality of life.

24.     M&E implementation and utilization. M&E was carried out primarily through
monitoring the key outcome and output performance indicators listed in the PAD, and
progress reports prepared by the Tai Basin Urban Environment Project Office
(TBUEPO). The prime source for M&E information was the series of TBUEPO’s
consolidated semi-annual progress reports summarizing implementation progress and
financial expenditures by component, including details of resettlement, and revisions to
the RAP’s measurement of monitoring indicators. However, because of the design
problems cited just above, indicators were not used to inform decision-making.

25.     In addition to the project’s performance indicators, environmental monitoring
data was collected during preparation of the ICR, to illustrate impacts of the project on
a broader basis. This data had been maintained by the utility companies and the
respective Environmental Protection Bureaus, who were responsible for monitoring
surface water quality in the river systems. The environmental monitoring indicators are
summarized in Annex 8.

26.     An important complementary activity of the municipal wastewater treatment
was the performance by industries in pollution prevention, which included cleaner
production and connection to the city sewer systems, and primary treatment of
wastewater on-site before discharge to the sewer systems. The Bank received annual
reports for Inventoried Enterprises to be connected to the sewer networks served, as
required in Schedule 2, Section 5 of the Implementation Program in the Project
Agreement.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.    Social Safeguards. Resettlement activities were carried out satisfactorily in
both municipalities. External monitoring of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
implementation was carried out in accordance with the legal agreements. Annual
safeguard compliance reports prepared by the project implementing units were
submitted regularly. Resettlement issues are summarized below.

28.     The total number of persons resettled under the project was 420. The area of
house demolitions was about 5,050 m2, which was less than estimated at appraisal.
Permanent land acquisition was about 31 ha, and temporary land acquisition was 515
ha. All resettlement was done in accordance with Chinese regulations and Bank
safeguards policies. The project affected persons (PAPs) were satisfied with the
resettlement arrangements, which improved their living standards (following transition
to urban residence) with stable incomes and employment in nearby factories as well as
access to social insurance benefits. The resettled communities now enjoy an

                                             7
employment rate over 96 percent, and their average annual income has increased from
RMB 5,860 in 2002 to RMB 16,000 in 2010. The Resettlement Completion Report
(RCR) indicates that resettlement implementation was successfully completed with the
full participation of the PAPs; the standard of living of PAPs had improved; and no
resettlement issues remained at loan closure. More details are provided in Annex 4.

29.    Environmental Safeguards. Dictated by changes during project
implementation, the Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and the Environmental
Management Plan (EMPs) were prepared for the new sub-projects. These documents
were reviewed by the Bank and cleared, in compliance with domestic EIA law and
Bank safeguard policies.

30.     During project implementation, dedicated environmental staff were assigned to
the Project Management Office (PMO) at the provincial level and to the Project
Implementing Units (PIUs) in Suzhou and Wuxi. An accredited monitoring institute
conducted environmental quality monitoring of a range of key parameters. Using these
inputs, an international consultant conducted broader EMP monitoring work, including
effectiveness of mitigation measures, training, etc. Based on the monitoring and
evaluation results, and the field observations of Bank supervision missions, the
mitigation measures developed during environmental assessment (EA) preparation
were implemented satisfactorily. Recommendations from the environmental consultant
and Bank missions were implemented as appropriate. Environmental training was
provided to PMO/PIU staff, contractors and supervision engineers during
implementation. Overall, the project EMP compliance is considered satisfactory.

31.     Financial Management. The project had an adequate project financial
management system that provided, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information that the loan was used for the intended purposes. The project accounting
and financial reporting were in line with the regulations issued by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the requirements specified in the Loan Agreement. In addition, the
withdrawal procedures and funds flow arrangements were appropriate throughout
project implementation, and loan proceeds were disbursed in a timely manner. Annual
audits were conducted and the reports were always unqualified and submitted on time
for the Bank to review.

32.     Procurement. Procurement of works and goods as well as selection of
consultants in the project were conducted in accordance with the Bank’s guidelines.
The factors which affected the implementation of procurement included the
coordination between the provincial PMO and the municipal PMO, and the quality of
the service provided by the tendering companies employed by the PMO.

33.    The factors that led to the Bank refusing to finance the one civil works contract
under the Suzhou Urban Canal Rehabilitation were, as mentioned in Section 2.2 (b),
the prolonged bid evaluation due to a lack of procurement experience by the

                                            8
implementation agency as well as the withdrawal of the lowest priced bidder, which
refused to maintain the bid price due to cost increases in the year that elapsed after bid
submission.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

34.    In Wuxi, agreement was not reached during the project period to merge
Dongting WWTP Phases 1 and 3 in the Xishan Economic Development Zone (XEDZ),
with the Xishan Wastewater Treatment Company (XWTC), as specified in the
agreements. The XEDZ – which financed Phases 1 and 3 of the WWTPs – preferred to
consolidate all three stages in order to improve operational efficiency. However, the
Xishan District Financial Bureau and the Xishan Economic Development Zone
Financial Bureau have not yet come to an agreement. On the other hand, the TBUEPO
confirmed that Wuxi still plans to merge small treatment plants in Xishan’s townships
(Donggang, Ehu and Xibei) under the Xishan Wastewater Company in the future.

35.     Suzhou plans to transfer ownership of all wastewater facilities in the main
urban area of Suzhou Municipality to the Suzhou Drainage Company (SDC) by 2012,
following the completion of auditing and finalization of project accounts. The future
status of the Suzhou Qingyuan Construction Company (SQCC), which still owns the
assets constructed under the project (Fuxin and Loujiang WWTPs), as well as transfer
of debt repayment liabilities, is still under discussion within the Suzhou Municipal
Government.

36.    Huishan District plans to expand wastewater collection and treatment capacity
because the wastewater treatment capacity (50,000 m3/d), installed under the project, is
already fully utilized and it also intends to extend its coverage to neighboring
townships.

37.     An alternative approach to achieving financial reforms was under serious
discussion in Wuxi and Suzhou during the last year of the project. The proposal is to
use the structure of service agreements – which offer a sound way of achieving the
reform objectives – by ensuring they are implemented in their entirety. This approach
can also build capacity for possible future private sector participation (PSP) options, as
a service agreement would require government agencies to adopt a contract
management role that is similar, in some respects, to the regulatory and contract
oversight function in PSP arrangements. However for this approach to be successful
and comply with utility practices, it is essential that the service fees are transparent and
comprehensive (i.e., a clear assignment of responsibilities for asset depreciation and
debt-servicing) to create the necessary financial autonomy and sustainability. At
project closing, broad agreement had been reached on this approach at the municipality
level, but the proposal had not been implemented before loan closure.




                                              9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation:          Rating: Moderately
satisfactory

38.     The project remained highly relevant throughout implementation, as improving
Lake Tai’s water quality has been, and remains, a priority for Jiangsu Province and the
central government. The project formed part of the comprehensive effort on behalf of
Suzhou and Wuxi Municipalities to improve water quality in the third largest
freshwater lake in China. Both cities are in the Lake Tai Protection Area, with
substantial and growing populations and industries, and had programs for control of
point- and non-point source pollution discharges.

39.     In addition to wastewater investments in the main urban areas, the project
design also included some second-level districts where, in the past, less attention had
been given to the control of pollution discharges that eventually flow to Lake Tai.
Wastewater collection and treatment in these areas were (and remained) part of the
government’s strategy to improve water quality in Lake Tai. Project design rightly
incorporated consolidation of wastewater services to rationalize investments, improve
efficiency, and achieve economies of scale. Implementation arrangements recognized
the situations of the prevailing funding and ownership arrangements, which generally
inhibited consolidation of facilities. Despite the known difficulties, project design
attempted consolidation of wastewater facilities in one district (Xishan) as a
demonstration.

40.      The design of institutional reforms for the wastewater companies was
unrealistic. The financial performance requirements for utility companies, incorporated
in the project, attempted to set a higher level of autonomy and viability, and were
pioneering for Bank-financed projects in China. However, they were quite ambitious,
and some changes were so fundamental that they had little chance of realization. Since
tariff-setting is the prerogative of governments, it is questionable whether it was
realistic for the project to require full cost recovery from the newly-established
wastewater companies, with no provision for subsidies from government even as a
temporary measure. Furthermore, Chinese municipalities have taken an approach of
structured provision of subsidies to utilities in a reliable manner that ensures full
coverage of financial requirements. The above problems notwithstanding, the
wastewater services were separated from the government to companies, wastewater
revenues were returned to the districts from where they were collected, and relatively
high wastewater tariffs were introduced in the municipalities.

41.   The PDO and KPIs as designed did not reflect the project scope well. The PDO
was too broad, and included statements such as “improve the quality of life,” and
“enhance economic competitiveness in Wuxi and Suzhou.” The project had no KPI to
measure these achievements. The focus on “alleviating degradation of water resources

                                           10
and improving the quality of the urban environment” was highly appropriate, and
could have been reinforced with the inclusion of sustainability as an objective. The
emphasis on institutional and financial reform in the project design was not reflected in
the PDO.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives                     Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory

42.     The primary focus of the PDO was alleviating degradation of water resources
and improving the quality of the urban environment, and these were substantially
achieved. Wastewater treatment rates in Suzhou increased from 30 percent to 85
percent during 2005 to 20010 through project investments, and treatment rates in
Xishan and Huishan Districts in Wuxi Municipality improved significantly from near
zero to about 60 percent to 80 percent. Total installed treatment capacity in Suzhou and
the Wuxi Municipalities nearly doubled from 160,000 m3/d in 2004 to 305,000 m3/d in
2009, exceeding the target of 280,000 m3/d. The proportion of untreated wastewater
discharged to the river systems was significantly reduced by 62 percent to 85 percent,
thus contributing to the improvement of water quality in Lake Tai. Capacity utilization
of the treatment plants constructed under the project was around 70 percent to 100
percent, which is optimal.

43.     Additional data on pollution reduction, water quality and performance of
wastewater treatment plants financed under the project show that the project mitigated
further pollution to the water environment and improved the quality of the urban
environment in the project areas. Standards of water quality for effluents from WWTPs
remained high, and significant amounts of pollutants were reduced. For example, the
cumulative amount of chemical oxygen demand (COD) reduction from 2007 to mid-
2010 is in the range of 3,900 tons to 18,000 tons, depending on the WWTP. Moreover,
surface water quality data indicate that the water quality in receiving waters gradually
improved after implementation of the project. The reason why the water quality of the
receiving water bodies did not immediately improve was because wastewater flows to
the WWTPs initially included both domestic and industrial wastewater, as it requires
different treatment. Detailed information can be found in Annex 8.

44.    The institutional and financial reforms were partially achieved in some areas
and not achieved in others (six of the nine institutional and financial covenants were
not complied with – see Annex 9 for details). The rationalization of planning and
consolidation of wastewater services did not take place. Yet, financial reforms
introduced under the project were pioneering in the China context, and resulted in all
wastewater revenues collected by the Finance Bureaus being returned to the Districts.
The authority for wastewater companies to levy and collect wastewater tariffs was a
ground-breaking and ambitious attempt by the Bank, but was not realized. Even though
wastewater tariffs are still insufficient to meet full costs in the districts of Wuxi, the
average tariff adopted in Suzhou and Wuxi is significantly higher than for most

                                            11
Chinese cities, and the respective governments met any shortfalls The project
contributed to water resource protection efforts in the Lake Tai Basin and to improving
water quality for discharges to Lake Tai.


3.3 Efficiency                                                    Rating: Satisfactory

45.     Economic Performance. At project appraisal, the economic justification of the
project was based on cost effectiveness, and no economic rate of return was calculated.
Instead, each sub-project was assessed based on development impact (i.e., its likely
contribution to achieving the primary development objective) and using least cost
analysis, with least cost options selected in every case. All original project components
have been constructed as appraised at lower than appraised costs, and are operating
satisfactorily. Additional treatment capacity was actually built using loan savings.

46.      It is difficult to quantify all the direct and indirect economic benefits from the
project partly because of lack of reliable data from the project area to quantify the
benefits. The project design did not attempt to compile such data and complete a
comprehensive economic assessment. Some of the key benefits that can be related to
the project include: (i) reduced pollution discharges to Basin rivers and Lake Tai, and
progressive improvement in some environmental indicators; (ii) savings by industries
discharging to municipal sewers, rather than treating wastewater prior to discharge;
(iii) protection and enhancement of the tourism industry in Suzhou; and (iv) permanent
and temporary job creation.

47.      Financial Performance. The financial justification of the project was not made
by the traditional method normally used for “revenue generating” sub-components
(i.e., there was no comparison of the estimated financial rate of return with the
weighted average cost of capital). Instead, the financial viability of the sub-
components was appraised based on an assessment of the long term financial
sustainability of the wastewater companies and least-cost analysis. This was a
reasonable approach to take.

48.     The wastewater tariff revenues are still collected by the respective water supply
companies and passed to a special account controlled by the municipal finance
bureaus. However, since 2009, all the wastewater revenue received by the Wuxi
Finance Bureau was returned to the Districts, in compliance with a government
regulation and the project covenant. The Districts then provided the wastewater
companies a treatment fee based on the quantity of wastewater treated and an
allowance for O&M of the collection networks. The budget was meant to cover all
operating expenses including debt service requirements. However, even with the
relatively high tariffs, wastewater revenues in Xishan and Huishan were inadequate to
fully fund the XWTC and the Huishan Water Treatment Company (HWTC), and the
District Finance Bureaus had to provide a subsidy to supplement the tariff revenues.

                                             12
This situation arose partly due to the cost of tertiary treatment mandated by the
Province, and partly due to the small scale of district level WWTPs, which have
inherently higher unit costs than larger WWTPs.

49.     Tariffs were revised twice during the project period, the last starting from July
2009. Current average tariffs are: RMB1.36/m3 in Suzhou and RMB1.43/m3 in Wuxi.
Financial projections for 2009 indicate that these tariffs enabled the recovery of about
100 percent of the full costs in Suzhou, 46 percent of the full costs in Huishan, and 73
percent of the full costs in Xishan. In Huishan, actual cost recovery is enhanced
through a supplementary tariff of RMB3.30/m3 which is levied on some industrial
enterprises. The financial projections showed that, in 2010, tariffs should have been
increased to RMB 3.08/m3 and RMB 2.92/m3 in HWTC and XWTC, respectively, to
meet the full costs. However, the municipal governments in all cities are providing
adequate financial resources to ensure the full operation of the WWTPs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

50.      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory The PDO was consistent with the Bank’s
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and highly relevant to the government’s
wastewater management and pollution reduction efforts in the Tai Lake basin area.
However, the assessment of the final achievement of the intended PDO can only be
partially ascertained. Some key indicators that were measurable were mostly achieved
(e.g., reduction of proportion of untreated wastewater and preparation of wastewater
master plans). Other indicators were not well defined and had no clear baseline to
determine achievement (e.g., cleaner urban water environment and improved
livability). Finally, although the institutional and financial reforms were only partially
achieved, the project introduced some possible paths for the wastewater systems to
achieve greater financial viability and long-term sustainability, which were the
ultimate goals of the municipalities. While the investments were effectively
implemented, and the treatment facilities are operating as planned with clear reduction
in pollution loads, the PDO as defined and the indicators proposed do not allow for a
full determination of achievement. On balance, the ICR’s conclusion is that the overall
outcome rating was Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

51.     The project design was not meant to address poverty or gender issues, but
generated some indirect benefits. The project had positive impacts on poor PAPs who
received substantial benefits in the form of new urban housing, employment and social
security. From the project inception in 2004 until completion in 2010, the project
created several thousand temporary jobs. Also, over 120 permanent job opportunities
were created as a result of the project works, such as construction and expansion of the

                                              13
Anzhen and Dongting WWTPs in Wuxi Municipality and the Fuxin and Loujiang
WWTPs in Suzhou Municipality. The average income of the PAPs increased to about
three times their income before the project. Access to improved sanitation and
improved hygiene likely reduced the incidence of waterborne diseases among the poor,
although evidence is only anecdotal.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

52.     A significant financial outcome of the project was the return of wastewater
revenues collected by the government back to the Districts where the revenue was
collected, which improved the autonomy of the companies. Other outcomes included:
the improved capacity for project management and procurement; preparation of annual
financial projections of the WWTP operations; establishment of wastewater companies
-- albeit with limited autonomy; and achieving relatively high levels of cost recovery
through setting higher tariffs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)    Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                               Rating: Low

53.    The risk to development outcome is low because:

(a) In 2007 the water crisis caused by algae blooms in Lake Tai prompted renewed
efforts by the central government to address water quality issues in Lake Tai (and other
two lakes), resulting in the National Development Reform Commission (NDRC)
preparing a national Master Plan – “Lake Tai Watershed Water Environment
Integrated Restoration 2007 – 2020” – to be implemented by Jiangsu and Zhejiang
Provinces and Shanghai Municipal Government. Jiangsu Province has been
implementing this large and comprehensive environmental remediation plan, to control
point- and non-point source pollution, and to improve the water quality in Lake Tai.
All towns and districts in the Lake Tai Protection Area, including the project cities and
districts, are required to continue making environmental investments as part of the
larger plan;

(b) The Jiangsu Provincial Government is highly committed to cleaning up the rivers
and streams in the Lake Tai Protection Area in order to improve water quality in Lake
Tai. Appropriation of funds for this project was not an issue in this relatively affluent
Province.




                                            14
(c) The provincial government has an intensive monitoring program on the utilization,
operation and discharge standards of all wastewater facilities in the Lake Tai
Protection Area, under its obligations to the central government;

(d) The utilization of the installed wastewater treatment capacity has been high, and
further expansions are being planned in some project cities where capacity is already
fully utilized;

(e) The wastewater companies are well staffed with experienced staff who have
undergone training in utility management and plant operations; and

(f) Wastewater facilities are properly operated and maintained, and adequate budgets
are made available by the relevant local governments in order to ensure their long-term
financial sustainability.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.     The Bank can be credited with designing a project linking the sustainable
development of the Tai Basin, the Ninth Five Year Plan, the CAS, and the Long-term
Program on Water Pollution Prevention and Control of the Tai Lake Basin while also
addressing the pollution reduction needs of the municipal and district governments.
The task team, including safeguards and fiduciary specialists, was committed and
provided support for the clients who had little experience in implementing Bank-
financed projects, in its efforts to address one of the most serious environmental issues
of the region and the country.

55.      However, the Bank’s project design had several flaws. Firstly, the Bank pushed
forward with ambitious institutional and financial sector reforms, which went beyond
initiatives pursued in previous Bank-financed projects in the sector and prevailing
China practice. Some of the reforms, such as full cost recovery with no subsidies, were
so fundamental that they had little chance of realization in China. Secondly, the Bank
was weak in background analysis of the sector and risk assessment and mitigation, and
it over-estimated the Borrower’s commitment to the reform agenda. Thirdly, it took
more than three years to undertake the initial stage of project identification and
preparation, and that resulted in a reduction in the scope of the project. Lastly, the PDO
was too broad, and the focus on institutional and financial reforms was not reflected in
the PDO. The KPIs that were incorporated into the Project Agreement and the
negotiations side letter were different from those in the PAD, which were output
indicators, rather than outcome indicators that would measure achievement of project



                                            15
objectives. The weak M&E framework made tracking project progress and assessing
the achievements much more difficult.

(b) Quality of Supervision                                          Rating: Satisfactory

56.     The performance of the task team in terms of supervision was satisfactory. The
Bank spent considerable time and resources, pursuing the agreed institutional and
reform agenda incorporated in the legal agreements and the PAD, even though they
were not explicitly part of the PDO. The task team had discussions on a possible
project restructuring at the Mid-term Review, to amend some covenants, but decided
against it because of the short time left before the original loan closing date. Moreover,
the discussions during the Mid-term Review focused on the cancellation of the
Wuzhong component and usage of loan savings rather than on the project covenants.
Nevertheless, the task team’s efforts finally bore some fruit towards the end of the
project when limited but important reforms were achieved.

Safeguards Compliance                                              Rating: Satisfactory

57.      Specialists of the Bank’s Beijing office satisfactorily supervised environmental
and social safeguards. They carried out adequate field visits to review progress and
ensured the timely submission of the external monitor’s report on safeguard
implementation. The team’s environmental specialists worked with the counterparts
closely and provided specific analysis and advice on the implementation of monitoring
activities and recommendations on actions to take, as evidenced in the Aide Memoires.

Fiduciary Compliance                                               Rating: Satisfactory

58.     Oversight of financial management and procurement activities was carried out
satisfactorily by members of the task team from the Beijing office, ensuring
compliance with procurement procedures, audit requirements and financial
management.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance           Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory

59.     In line with ICR guidelines, the overall Bank performance rating is moderately
satisfactory, given the ratings at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance                                         Rating: Satisfactory

60.    The Jiangsu Provincial Government and the two municipalities demonstrated
strong commitment to the project objectives through two key actions in mandating: (i)

                                            16
a relatively high uniform wastewater fee in all municipalities and districts; and (ii) a
higher discharge standard for treated wastewater, to reduce nitrogen and phosphorus.

Introduction of tertiary treatment also increased the unit cost of treatment by about
RMB 0.30/m3, which made it difficult for wastewater companies to achieve the
financial performance criteria. While this requirement is commendable, there is
evidence that about 50 percent of the pollution in the Lake Tai Basin is from non point
sources, (i.e., nitrogen and phosphorus, which are generated from agricultural
activities); hence, the justification of this tertiary treatment requirement for WWTPs in
districts and small towns is uncertain.

61.    The Suzhou and Wuxi Municipal Governments updated their wastewater
master plans, transferred wastewater revenues to the Districts, and added tertiary
treatment in all treatment plants to comply with the enhanced discharged standard.

62.    The transfer of wastewater revenues from the Municipal Finance Bureau to the
Xishan and Huishan Districts, however, did not assure that the wastewater companies
received and managed all the funds. The District Finance Bureaus functioned in the
same way that the Municipal Finance Bureau did earlier, by providing a budget to the
wastewater companies for O&M in the form of a treatment fee, and used the balance of
revenue for network expansion. Thus, the full financial autonomy of wastewater
companies was only partially achieved. This notwithstanding, the Xishan District
Government provided additional funding to XWTC to meet its debt services payments.

63.      Suzhou Municipality established the Suzhou Municipal Drainage Company, as
stipulated in the legal agreements, to operate and maintain its wastewater facilities.
However, the transfer of wastewater assets was not completed before loan closure due
to the length of time required to complete audit procedures and asset valuations.

64.      As late as 2007, Xishan confirmed its intention to consolidate the wastewater
services in the District. However, Wuxi Municipality was not able to effect the
consolidation because agreement could not be reached with the parties for the merger
due to the complex capital asset financing procedures, and the desire by each entity to
retain full control of its assets. In Dongting, the Phase 1 and Phase 3 WWTPs were
constructed by the Xishan Economic Development Zone outside the project, and the
Phase 2 WWTP was constructed under the project, and the Xishan Economic
Development Zone Finance Bureau did not agree to a merger with Xishan District.
Similarly, XWTC has not been able to reach agreement to consolidate the small
WWTPs in the townships that were financed with their own funds. Consolidation of
facilities in the Xishan District could have been achieved only with a stronger
commitment by the Wuxi Municipal Government to address the jurisdictional and
financial issues.




                                            17
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance                    Rating: Satisfactory

65.     It was an exceptional achievement of the implementing agencies to complete
all the original physical components below appraisal costs, in spite of the drastic
exchange rate change (from RPM 8.07 per a dollar in January 2006 to RMB 6.90 per a
dollar in June 2008), and before the original closing date. All implementing agencies
performed satisfactorily in executing the functions assigned to them (e.g., operating
and maintaining assets allocated to them, except for SQCC), as described below.

66.     Suzhou Qingyuan Construction Company (SQCC). Performance of SQCC as
the construction agent of Suzhou Municipality was satisfactory, as it completed the
two wastewater treatment plants and the collection networks well before the loan
closing date. The assets created under the project remained with SQCC, but the
transfer of assets to SDC is still under discussion. SQCC cannot be faulted for not
meeting the financial performance covenants set out in the legal agreements, as it had
no revenue stream from wastewater services operations. The debt is serviced by the
Suzhou Municipal Finance Bureau.

67.      Suzhou Drainage Company (SDC), following its establishment in 2009, is in
charge of O&M of its project assets as well as all other wastewater assets in the central
districts of Suzhou, and its technical performance is satisfactory. However, it is not yet
financially sustainable or autonomous. SDC does not own these wastewater assets, had
no revenue stream apart from its government budget allocation, and was not
responsible for debt servicing. SDC received an annual budget to cover its O&M costs
based on the quantity of wastewater treated and a payment for network maintenance.

68.    Xishan Wastewater Treatment Company (XWTC). The XWTC was responsible
for constructing the Anzhen WWTP and the Dongting WWTP Phase 2, which were
successfully completed. However, XWTC is responsible only for O&M of the Anzhen
WWTP and its associated facilities, and the Xishan Economic Development Zone
provides O&M for all three phases of the Dongting WWTP, although it was originally
planned to be merged with XWTC.

69.    Huishan Water Treatment Company (HWTC). The HWTC demonstrated solid
commitment to wastewater management through construction of a WWTP with a total
capacity of 50,000 m3/d to meet the increasing demands of the district. The second
phase 25,000 m3/d plant was constructed and put into operation in a record time of 12
months. However, HWTC is responsible only for the treatment plant; the Huishan
Economic Development Zone owns and maintains the collection networks separate
from the HWTC.

70.     There was a lack of appreciation of the need to consolidate management of
collection networks and treatment plants in order for wastewater management to be
fully effective. District governments constructed additional collection networks and

                                            18
operate them using other organizations or outsourcing O&M of networks, as in
Huishan. Under such arrangements, it was also difficult to assess the true cost of
providing wastewater services or to determine the necessary tariffs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

71.     Through its commitment to improving the water environment and promoting
sustained economic development, the Jiangsu Provincial Government supported the
preparation and satisfactory implementation of the project, which reduced point-source
pollution discharges through the enhanced collection and treatment of wastewater. All
the original sub-projects, except for the Wuzhong sub-project, were completed and are
in operation; wastewater services were separated from government sanitation
departments; relatively high levels of tariff were adopted; and a key financial reform of
returning wastewater revenue to Districts was implemented. The Borrower
implemented the agreements for some of the institutional and financial reforms, except
those that were inherently difficult to achieve. The Borrower is continuing to make the
environmental improvements, and has commenced preparation of a follow-on project
focusing on water quality improvement in Meiliang Lake, and non-point source
pollution control through restoration of wetlands for enhanced natural treatment of
surface water and rural pollution management.

6. Lessons Learned

72.      Mandatory Requirement for Tertiary Treatment. The requirement for all
WWTPs in the Tai Lake Protection Area to introduce tertiary treatment demonstrates
the government’s commitment to pollution reduction. However, through its application
irrespective of the size of the facility of jurisdiction, it ignores the costs and benefits,
and practical realities of the incremental cost, feasibility of levying adequate tariffs,
and the technical capacity necessary to operate such plants, especially by small towns
that operate plants with capacities of 5,000 m3/d to 15,000 m3/d. The requirement also
runs the risk that small towns may construct such plants to comply with the
requirement, but may not operate them for practical reasons. It is therefore necessary to
develop an incremental approach to treatment standards taking account of ground
realities depending on the size of facilities and the capacity of small towns.

73.      Appropriate Utility Institutional Model in China. The institutional model
defined by the Bank for the wastewater services in the project was clearly not
appropriate in the context of institutional development trends and choices in China.
The project design and covenants called for corporatization of services, wastewater
tariffs set at full cost-recovery levels without any subsidies, and independent utility
companies free of direct government intervention and responsible for creating funds
for asset replacement. The ultimate objective of this model was to provide effective

                                             19
wastewater collection and treatment services in the project areas. Chinese
municipalities are achieving this objective in medium- and large-size cities with a
different model. Municipalities define a tariff level – based on a political decision that
takes into consideration local economic conditions – and a complementary subsidy that
are passed on the utilities to cover their financial requirements. Utility companies
provide wastewater services for a treatment fee, as service providers. This approach
has been effective in providing good wastewater service and treatment coverage with
very rapid expansion, particularly during the last decade. This model may provide an
opportunity to move to the next level of institutional development, by developing
service agreements between the government and the utility companies -- with the
treatment fees that include costs of O&M, debt service and depreciation -- to set the
companies on a path towards full autonomy. The project managed to achieve the first
step of return of revenue collected by the Financial Bureau in Wuxi and Suzhou to the
districts, but it failed to achieve further reforms, including passing all these funds on to
the utility companies either in their entirety or under service agreements, and
consolidating services on a regional basis and achieving the economies of scale.

74.     Reduction of Point- and Non-point Source Pollution. The project reduced
point-source pollution discharges through wastewater collection and treatment in the
project cities. However, control of point-source pollution alone will not be adequate to
improve water quality in the Lake Tai Basin. Technical reports of the Lake Tai basin
indicate that non-point source pollution now constitutes about 50 percent of the total
pollution loads that enter the water systems, primarily from agricultural sources and
untreated urban runoff. It would therefore be appropriate for future projects to include
both point- and non-point source pollution interventions in the same operation, or
address non-point source pollution separately.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

75.     The Borrower has raised a number of issues about project formulation and the
lack of clarity in the legal agreements. The Borrower is correct in the observation that
there is an inconsistency in the requirement for the SQCC to comply with the financial
performance criteria because the company was not responsible for O&M and did not
have a revenue stream to meet the specified financial performance. The Borrower
claims that some financial reforms had no chance of success. The task team agrees that
some reforms were quite ambitious at the time of project implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers                                                           Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders                                        Not Applicable




                                             20
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                   CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate (US$
                                  (US$ millions)                              Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Wuxi: Wuli Lake Rehabilitation         31.65               31.34                 99.0
Wuxi: Dongting & Anzhen
                                       43.47               41.49                 95.5
Wastewater System
Wuxi: Huishan Wastewater
                                       17.68                23.16                131.0
System (Phases 2 & 2)
Wuxi: Huishan Wastewater
                                        --                   6.75
System (Phase 3)

Suzhou: Urban Canal
                                           6.60                 6.62             100.4
Rehabilitation
Suzhou: Water Regulation in
                                          11.30                 7.23             64.0
Shantang Xujiang Rivers
Suzhou: Fuxin Wastewater
                                          18.02               19.48              108.1
Treatment Plant
Suzhou: Loujiang Wastewater
                                          12.82               11.56              90.2
Treatment Plant
Suzhou: Wuzhong Wastewater
                                          13.28                 0.00             0.00
System
Implementation Support & Sector
                                           1.68                 1.03             61.6
Development

             Total Baseline Cost         156.50              148.67              95.2
Physical Contingencies                     7.83
Price Contingencies                       10.13
              Total Project Costs        174.46              148.67               85.4
Interest during construction               3.64                3.99              109.6
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.61                0.27              44.51
      Total Financing Required           178.71              152.93               85.6

Note: Actual costs incurred for the Wuli Lake rehabilitation were not provided by the
Borrower. Based on publicly available figures, the investment costs were RMB210 million.
 (b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of        Estimate      Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing         (US$          (US$        Appraisal
                                                         millions)     millions)
 Borrower                                                 113.16         91.64         81.0
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           61.30         57.33         93.5
and Development
Total                                                     174.46        148.97         85.4



                                             21
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                  CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

Project outputs agreed at project appraisal were all realized, except for the Suzhou
Wuzhong wastewater treatment works which were completed outside the project. The
following paragraphs provide details of the project’s outputs.

A. Wuxi Municipality

1. Wuli Lake Rehabilitation: (i) Ecological dredging removed 2,480,000 m3 of
polluted lake bed sediment, comprising an average thickness of 0.5 meter over an area
of 5.7 km2; (ii) most of the wastewater generated was intercepted through construction
of 75 km of interception sewers, 67 km of branch sewers, and 11 control gates to stop
pollution discharges from reaching the lake; (iii) Wuli Lake surface area was increased
from 6.4 km2 to 9.5 km2 through the return of land encroached upon by fish farms; (iv)
water exchange between Wuli Lake, Meiliang Lake and Liangxi River was improved,
through construction of a 50 cubic meter per second (m3/sec) pumping station, four
control gates and associated structures; (v) ecological environmental rehabilitation was
carried out in an area of 981,000 m2 by planting over 5 million floating vegetation
plants, sowing 138 kg of seeds for submerged vegetation, introduction of 50 tons of
snails, clams and mussels, and 160,000 baby fish; and (vi) the lake embankment was
rehabilitated in a 50m-250m wide belt, 38 km long, including landscaping and
forestation, producing a new and renovated green area covering 464.5 hectares,
including 159 hectares of roadside greenbelt, and 294.2 hectares of open park, 38 km
long. A pilot study of ecological environment rehabilitation was also completed, to
develop strategies for pollution control and sustainable lake management. This
component was implemented with the counterpart funds, but it was kept as part of the
project scope.

2. Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTPs) and Networks:

(i) Huishan District: Two phases of wastewater treatment, located in north Huishan
Development Zone, with a total capacity of 50,000 m3/d including tertiary treatment,
and 58 km of collection networks, serving Chang’an and Yanqiao industry park;

(ii) Xishan Dongting WWTP extension (from 20,000 m3/d to 50,000 m3/d) and 40 km
of sewers, bringing the total capacity installed in Dongting to 120,000 m3/d; and

(iii) A new WWTP (25,000 m3/d) and 146 km of sewers, including three lifting
pumping stations to form complete structures linking wastewater network with users,
and to serve Anzhen, Houqiao, Yangjianzhen and East Industry Parks.




                                           22
3. Updated Wastewater Master Plan for Wuxi Municipality. The updated master
plan now provides wastewater projections, treatment plant expansion requirements and
investment costs. At closing, it was still under review.
B. Suzhou Municipality


1. Pollution Prevention and Canal Dredging Work in Central City: construction of
gate/ship locks on Xujiang and Shangtang Rivers; and dredging of about 874,000 m3 of
sediment: (a) to enhance flood control ability and prevent intrusion of polluted water
from the Grand Canal and (b) to prevent clean water outflow from the Wangyu River
through Xitang River. The scheme was also part of the Suzhou flood control master
plan. This component included construction of a gate/ship locks on the Xujiang and
Shangtang Rivers, embankment heightening and dredging of 65 km of canals in the
urban area to rehabilitate the canal’s flow detention and flood control capacity.

2. Wastewater Treatment Plant and Wastewater Pipeline Network. This
comprises: (i) Fuxin WWTP extension (100,000 m3/d), serving southwest of Suzhou;
and (ii) Loujiang WWTP extension (80,000 m3/d), serving northeast of Suzhou, and
associated networks. The Wuzhong WWTP extension (25,000 m3/d) and associated
networks, which was originally included in the project scope, was done outside of the
project.

C. Updated Wastewater Master Plan for Suzhou Municipality. The master plan
provides wastewater projections, treatment plant expansion requirements and
investment costs. The plan was approved in early 2010 and implementation is
underway.
The details of the scope of works are summarized in the table below.

Subcomponent                   Works Agreed at Appraisal          Actual Work Completed
A.1 Wuli Lake Rehabilitation   Lake capacity increased:           All agreed works and
                               Interceptors: 75km                 considerable additional facilities
                               Sewers: 67 km                      were constructed with own funds,
                               Water transfer 50m3 per sec        but it is still part of the project.
                               capacity                           The Bank team conducted
                               Embankment rehabilitation and      supervision during
                               landscaping                        implementation.
A.2(i) Huishan District        Sewers: 58 km                      All agreed works were
Wastewater                     WWTP: 25,000 m3/d                  completed, and additional
                               Discharge Std: Class 1B            treatment capacity of 25,000 m3/d
                                                                  was constructed.
                                                                  Discharge Std: Class 1A
A.2(ii) Xishan Dongting        Sewers: 30,000 m3/d                All agreed works were
Wastewater                     WWTP: 40 km                        completed.
                               Discharge Std: Class 1B            Discharge Std: Class 1A
A.2(iii) Xishan (Anshen)       Sewers: 146 km                     All agreed works were
District Wastewater            WWTP: 25,000 m3/d                  completed.
                               Discharge Std: Class 1B            Discharge Std: Class 1A




                                               23
Subcomponent                Works Agreed at Appraisal          Actual Work Completed
B.1 Suzhou Urban Canal      Increased flood control capacity   All agreed works were
Rehabilitation              through dredging.                  completed.
                            Gates: Two
B.2(i) Suzhou Fuxin         Sewers: Included above             All agreed works were
Wastewater                  WWTP: 100,000 m3/d                 completed.
                            Discharge Std: Class 1B            Discharge Std: Class 1A
B.2(ii) Suzhou Loujiang     Sewers: No sewers                  All agreed works were
Wastewater                  WWTP: 80,000 m3/d                  completed.
                            Discharge Std: Class 1B            Discharge Std: Class 1A
Suzhou Wuzhong Wastewater   Sewers: 43km                       Subcomponent was done outside
                            WWTP: 25,000 km                    of the project.




                                             24
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

                      CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

A.        Economic Performance and Benefits
1.      The economic justification of the project was established using cost
effectiveness criteria. Economic rate of return was not calculated for the project, nor
was there any systematic attempt to quantify all the potential economic benefits at
appraisal. Therefore, it is not possible to assess whether there were economic benefits
derived from the project.

2.     High levels of pollution have direct economic impacts on rural and urban water
supplies, and on agricultural and fisheries production. Degradation of water quality and
the lack of adequate wastewater treatment facilities adversely affect the economic
opportunities and growth of the area and diminish the quality of life for the residents. The
possible economic benefits associated with the successful implementation of the TBUEP
include the following:

•     protection of water quality in local waterways and Lake Tai, which is a key surface
      water resource in the region;
•     protection and enhancement of the tourism industry in Suzhou (see paragraph 4);
•     provision of centralized wastewater treatment to avoid the need for many small
      industries to install more expensive on-site treatment, and consequently contributing
      to keeping local industries in business; and
•     job creation in the new WWTP and during construction.
3.       Most importantly, the project provided major indirect economic benefits by
facilitating the continued expansion of the Xishan and Huishan districts of Wuxi
municipality in an environmentally sustainable manner. The expansion of these
districts is part of China’s response to rural-to-urban migration pressure, a key element
in the country’s economic development strategy. Indicators of economic development
of the project area between 2002 (base year for the appraisal) and 2009 (on which the
ICR is based) are provided in the tables below:


         Indicator                              2002           2009             Increase (%)
    Suzhou Municipality (main city districts)
    Total GDP (RMB billion)                     246.82         687.05           178
    Population (million)                        2.03           2.35             14.9
    GDP per capita (RMB)                        121,586        292,362          140
    Urban Population (million)                  1.04           1.55             49
    Percentage of Urban Population (%)          51             66               15
         Huishan District (Wuxi Municipality)
    Total GDP (RMB billion)                     15.2           38.46            153
    Population (million)                        0.37           0.41             10.8
    GDP per capita                              41,081         93,805           128
    Urban Population (million)                  n/a            n/a              n/a
    Percentage of Urban Population              n/a            n/a              n/a

                                                  25
      Xishan District (Wuxi Municipality)
 Total GDP (RMB billion)                    13.75              33.52            144
 Population (million)                       0.426              0.411            (3.5)
 GDP per capita                             32,277             81,557           153
 Urban Population (million)                 0.15               0.175            16.7
 Percentage of Urban Population             35                 43               8

4.       In Suzhou, the number of tourists and revenues from the tourism industry over
the same period increased dramatically. Suzhou has been one of the most popular
tourist sites in China, and some project sites are near the tourist spots. The project
supported economic growth of the areas through the protection and enhancement of the
tourist industry as illustrated in the table below.

         Indicator                          2002               2009             Increase
     GDP from tourism (RMB billion)         19.8               73.5             271%
     Number of tourists (million)           21.0               55.1             162%

5.      One potential economic benefit identified at appraisal that was not achieved
was economies in scale in operational management by merging WWTPs in the Xishan
District of Wuxi. The creation of a single wastewater utility to serve the District did
not prove feasible.

B.       Financial Performance and Sustainability

Financial Reform of Wastewater Sector

6.      The PAD identified that the priority reform requirement over the immediate term
was to convert the wastewater tariff into a commercial fee, and not the achievement of a
particular level of wastewater tariff. In this way, revenues would be under the full control
of the individual project companies, and this would create the necessary financial
autonomy. The underlying reform objective was that the project companies would
become “self-funded,” which implied they would be financed entirely from the
wastewater tariff, and would receive revenues based on the actual services they provided.
The operation of the project companies under service agreements could provide an
alternative way to achieve this objective.

7.      Wuxi and Suzhou Municipal Governments agreed at appraisal to change the legal
status of the wastewater fee to that of a wastewater utility tariff by the end of 2006.
However, this change was not implemented as planned. This was not a realistic approach
that could be implemented under the prevailing local circumstances.

8.      Wastewater tariffs in Suzhou and Wuxi are amongst the highest in China, and the
Jiangsu Provincial Government has taken a strong lead to ensure the wastewater services
are financed to the maximum extent possible from user charges in accordance with
national policies. Wastewater tariffs in Wuxi were raised in July 2009 and in Suzhou in
December 2009 for non-residential and industrial customers, and in April 2010 for
residential customers.

                                              26
Full Cost Recovery Analysis

9.      The second reform requirement set up was to fully recover the costs of
wastewater utilities in Suzhou and Wuxi. The full cost recovery was reflected by two
financial covenants as follows:

   •   Cost recovery ratio – at least 1.0 in each year.
   •   Debt service coverage ratio – not less than 1.3.

Full Cost Recovery Analysis in Suzhou

10.      Institutional Arrangements. In Suzhou, there are three units relating to wastewater
utilities. SQCC, established for the Project, was responsible for the construction of
wastewater utilities in Suzhou. The assets created by SQCC were to be transferred to
Suzhou Municipal Drainage Company (SDC). SDC was formed to operate the
wastewater utilities in Suzhou, including WWTPs, pumping stations, and sewershowever,
the pumping stations are owned by the Drainage Facilities Management Division
(DFMD). To conduct a full cost recovery analysis, it is assumed that all assets were
transferred to SDC.

11.     Full Cost Recovery Analysis. Based on the above institutional assumptions, a
financial analysis was performed on SDC, rather than on SQCC (as was done in the
PAD). The results of the analysis are presented below.

                                                             2009       2010
             Average wastewater tariff (RMB per m3)          1.15       1.36
             Cost recovery ratio                             1.60       1.12
             Debt service coverage ratio                     N/A        N/A


12.     The tariffs in Suzhou currently could achieve full cost recovery. In reality,
however, only RMB 0.60 per m3 out of RMB 1.15 per m3 was appropriated to SDC from
the Suzhou Finance Bureau in 2009. RMB 0.60/m3 accounted for about 84 percent of full
cost recovery. The total amount was determined by the volume of wastewater SDC
actually treated. In 2010, the funds appropriated to SDC for wastewater treatment would
be made on the real demand of cash.

Full Cost Recovery Analysis in Wuxi Huishan Economic Development Zone

13.    Institutional Arrangements. HWTC provides wastewater treatment service to
Wuxi Huishan Economic Development Zone. The sewers are operated and maintained by
the Planning and Construction Bureau of the Management Committee for Wuxi Huishan
Economic Development Zone. The sewers that collect the wastewater in Yanqiao Town
are operated and maintained by the Yanqiao Town Government. To conduct a full cost



                                               27
recovery analysis, it was assumed that all assets were transferred to the Huishan Water
Treatment Company Limited.

14.     Full Cost Recovery Analysis. Based on the above institutional assumption, a
financial analysis was performed on HWTC. The results of the analysis are presented
below. The tariffs in Wuxi currently cannot achieve full cost recovery, although revenues
were fully remitted to HWTC. The tariffs themselves only fulfill around 46 percent of
full cost recovery. To meet the requirements regarding the cost recovery ratio and the
debt service coverage ratio, the average wastewater tariff in 2010 should have been
increased to RMB 1.80/m3.

                                                   2009                   2010
                                                          Actual                 Projection
   Average wastewater tariff (RMB/m3)              1.27            1.43             1.80
   Cost recovery ratio                             0.49            0.52             1.00
   Debt service coverage ratio                     0.50            1.47             3.50


Full Cost Recovery Analysis of Xishan Wastewater Treatment Company

15.     Institutional arrangements. XWTC provides wastewater collection and treatment
to part of Xishan District. Only the WWTP is operated and maintained by XWTC, while
the pumping stations and sewers are outsourced to another company for operation and
maintenance by XWTC. To conduct a full cost recovery analysis, it was assumed that all
assets were operated and maintained by XWTC.

16.     Full Cost Recovery Analysis. Based on the above institutional assumptions, a
financial analysis was performed on XWTC. The results of the analysis are presented in
the table below.

                                                   2009                   2010
                                                          Actual                 Projection
   Average wastewater tariff (RMB per m3)          1.27            1.43             2.92
   Cost recovery ratio                             1.72            0.73             1.48
   Debt service coverage ratio                     N/A             0.46             1.30


17.     The WWTP operated by XWTC was only put into operation in late 2009. The
data used for the financial analysis did not reflect the real situation of XWTC. The
projection for 2010 shows that the current average wastewater tariff can only achieve 73
percent of full cost recovery, although the tariff revenue is fully remitted to XWTC. To
meet the requirements of the cost recovery ratio and the debt service coverage ratio, the
average wastewater tariff in 2010 should have been increased to RMB 2.92 per m3.

Conclusion

18.    It is clear that the project has brought major economic benefits to the area and
supported the continuous growth of the regional economy. Financial sustainability that
was put forward in the reform agenda was not achieved. Nevertheless, tariffs at Suzhou
                                            28
and Wuxi are already at a high level, compared to other municipalities in China, and one
of the wastewater treatment companies (i.e., SDC) could achieve full cost recovery, based
on an assumption that all assets are transferred to the wastewater treatment companies
that are responsible for operation and maintenance.




                                           29
                  Annex 4. Resettlement Implementation Report

                  CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project


1.      Summary. Resettlement activities were carried out satisfactorily, and all PAPs
were resettled in accordance with the agreed resettlement action plan (RAP). The
actual compensation standards for both land acquisition and house demolitions were
higher than those stipulated in the RAP. All compensation payments were made on
time, and all PAPs were fully consulted during the entire resettlement process. PAPs’
incomes have been restored. In accordance with the Provincial Government policy,
PAPs, except students, also became eligible for rural social security. Actual house
demolitions were reduced significantly due to optimization during detailed design and
actual construction.
2.      Independent Monitoring. Independent monitoring of resettlement
implementation was done, as agreed at appraisal. The External Monitor’s report
indicated that resettlement implementation was satisfactory: the institutional
arrangements for land acquisition and house demolitions were clearly defined; the
resettlement agencies were well staffed and had good communication skills; the
performance of the resettlement staff was satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation. Living standards of the PAPs were restored and incomes were
restored or enhanced.
3.      Resettlement Institutions. Institutions with responsibility for land
acquisition and house demolition were identified at the provincial, municipal and
implementing agency levels, and responsibilities were assigned. The agencies
coordinated with each other during implementation.
4.      The report of the External Monitor indicates satisfaction with the institutional
arrangements and coordination as well as staffing of the resettlement institutions, and
the house demolition administration and implementation institutions had good
communication skills. The External Monitor made these assessments based on
interviews, and found that the resettlement institutions performed their responsibilities
satisfactorily, and completed their tasks in a timely manner during both project
preparation and implementation. There were a few instances of lack of understanding
of the Bank’s policies, but the operational skills and understanding of the staff of the
resettlement institutions improved during project implementation.
5.      Compensation for Land Acquisition and Income Restoration. Resettlement
activities were carried out in accordance with the RAP and the resettlement-related
documents issued by the local governments. In the Wuxi Xishan component,
resettlement of PAPs was conducted in accordance with the Wuxi Government
Document No. (2004)128: “The Rules for Implementation of Xishan District
Government of Wuxi Municipality on Provisional Measures of Land Acquisition
Compensation and Affected Farmers Livelihood Protection,” and Document No.
(2004)129: “Pilot Scheme of Land Compensation and Solutions of Historical Problems
of Resettlement.” The compensation standards in these documents were higher than
those in the RAP, which mandated RMB 48,000/mu, or RMB 3,200/ha.



                                            30
6.     The district government issued regulations and provided special care to
safeguard the living standard of PAPs. According to the provisions in Documents
No.128 and 129 (2004), farmers whose land was acquired were entitled to special
social security, so as to achieve the required minimum basic living standard.
Furthermore, Nianyu Village Committee and Zhuangqiao Residents Committee agreed
to arrange employment for the PAPs so as to safeguard their living standards.
Furthermore, the Huishan District Government issued a document at the end of 2006,
regarding the basic livelihood guarantees to farmers whose land had been acquired,
and decided that Huishan District Government would allocate RMB 3.6 billion to
finance a basic living guarantee system, from January 2007, which would bring
116,800 farmers into the system. In addition, all villagers have been included in the
basic old-age rural social security system, except for students, military and special
populations. Farmers who lost land were included in the basic livelihood security
system. The situation of Suzhou in this regard is almost the same.
7.      Income Restoration. The external monitoring agency carried out a random
sampling survey to investigate income restoration among the resettled households,
covering about 20 percent of total affected households. The survey obtained
information on household size, agricultural and non-agricultural production, main
products, house construction progress, annual income and expenditures of the family,
and living standards.
8.     The survey results show that, on average, the annual net income per person in
the sample of Hujiadu village amounted to RMB 13,258/yr in 2009, compared to the
annual income of RMB 5,800/yr in 2002. Annual gross expenditures per person were
RMB 5,200 yr in 2002, compared to about RMB 7,388/yr in 2009.
9.      The data indicates that although the living expenditures of villagers increased
after land acquisition, their incomes grew more rapidly, and enterprises’ income grew
more rapidly than expenditures. Therefore, incomes and living standards are better
than before. See the Chart 1 below.

                    Chart 1: Income Restoration of PAPs (in RMB)




                                           31
10.     A similar situation prevailed in Wuxi Xishan and Suzhou in terms of income
restoration of the project affected villagers, who are satisfied with the resettlement
compensation and income recovery.

Findings and Conclusions
11.    Changes in Project Impacts. Due to design optimization and planning
adjustments, changes occurred in the actual resettlement impacts in following three
sub-projects during project implementation. First, in Wuxi Huishan sub-project, the
land for future expansion was acquired together with the land for the current project.
Consequently, the area of land acquisition increased by 5.82ha (87.42 mu), compared
with the RAP. Second, in Wuxi Xishan sub-project, the area of land acquisition is
more than that in RAP by 0.67 ha (10 mu). Third, in Suzhou sub-project, the area of
permanent land acquisition was decreased by 0.86 ha (13 mu), the area of temporary
land occupation was 6.9 ha (103.5 mu) less, and the area of house demolitions declined
by 4,650 m2. Moreover, no residential houses were involved, and the number of
demolished enterprises was reduced from eight to two. Table 1 (at the end of this
annex) summarizes planned and actual resettlement impacts of the project.
12.    Completion of Resettlement Compensation. All the PAPs and enterprises
received compensation in accordance with the compensation agreement. The project
management office assisted the project affected enterprises in moving and
reconstruction. The income of the resettled persons was not affected and their living
standard was restored or improved.
13.    Payment of Compensation Fee. Through interviews with villagers, the
external monitoring team found that compensation fees were paid to the villagers on
schedule at the end of each year.
14.     Recovery of Production and Livelihood. Local enterprises are generally
prosperous and incomes of the PAPs came mainly from working for those enterprises.
From the trace investigation of sample families, livelihoods and businesses of the
PAPs have recovered and in some cases improved. All PAPs were covered by the basic
living safeguard system of the local government, and have a secure future.
15.      Good Performance of Resettlement Administration Organizations. The
resettlement administration organizations performed highly efficiently, although they
did not understand the requirements and procedures of the World Bank very well
initially.
16.    Public Participation. During resettlement implementation, the policies and
procedures relating to public participation (such as evaluation and public hearing, etc.)
were strictly adhered to. The PAPs were able to select the agencies responsible for
house evaluation and house demolition, so as to ensure fairness, transparency, and
smooth implementation of house demolition and enterprise relocations.
17.     Good Filing of Project Documents. The project management office collected
the various documents on land acquisition and resettlement during project
implementation (e.g., photos of affected enterprises before and after demolition,
resettlement and compensation agreements, records of temporary land occupation,
hand-over procedures of temporary land occupation, etc.) in a timely manner. A good
filing system was established for resettlement activities, which provided the basic data
for project completion and take-over inspection and project evaluation and monitoring.

                                            32
                                  Table 1: Planned vs. Actual Resettlement Impacts of the Project

Component name                                                                 Enterprise/          Affected people    Total Resettlement
                    Permanent Land
                                        Temporary Land     House Demolition    institution/ shop    (# Persons)        Costs
                    Acquisition
                                        Occupation (ha)    (m2)                affected (#)                            (RMB million)
                    (ha)
                    Planned   Actual    Planned   Actual   Planned   Actual    Planned    Actual    Planned   Actual   Planned   Actual
Wuxi
- Huishan           12.28     18.1      129.31    129.31
- Xishan            5.37      6.04      322.73    338.27                                            80        129
Subtotal of Wuxi:   17.65     24.14     452.04    467.58                                            80        129
Suzhou
- Incoming
    wastewater
                    1.59      0.73      2.39      0        9708      5050.42   8          3         157       95       11.61     10.36
    control
    project
- Watercourse
    dredging        0         0         52.44     47.93    0         0         0          0         172       196      6.91      3.77
    project
- WWTPs             6.10      6.10      0         0        0         0         0          0         0         0        0
Subtotal of
                    7.69      6.83      54.83     47.93    9708      5050.42   8          3         329       291      18.52     14.14
Suzhou
Total               25.34     30.97     506.87    515.51   9708      5050.42   8          3         409       420      18.52     14.14




                                                               33
       Annex 5: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                          CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
            Names                               Title                   Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Stuart Whitehead               Financial Specialist                   EASIN     Task Team Leader
Mara Warwick                   Sr. Environmental Engineer             EASIN     Env. Engineering
Zhun Zhang                     Institutional Specialist                Cons.    Institutional
Chongwu Sun                    Sr. Environmental Specialist           EASCS     Environment
Songling Yao                   Social Development Specialist          EASCS     Social
Lixin Gu                       Sr. Infrastructure Specialist          EASCS     Environment
Mingyuan Fan                   Sr. Municipal Engineer                 EASCS     Mun. Engineering
David I                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM     Fin. Management
Supervision/ICR
                               Country Sector Coordinator/Sr.
Mara Warwick                                                           EASIN Task Team Leader
                               Environmental Engineer
Mingyuan Fan                   Sr. Sanitary Engineer                   EASCS    Task Team Leader
Toyoko Kodama                  Operations Officer                      EASIN     Task Team Leader
Chandra Godavitarne            Municipal Engineer                      EASCS    Mun. Engineering
Lixin Gu                       Senior Infrastructure Specialist        EASIN    Infrastructure
Jianjun Guo                    Procurement Specialist                  EAPPR    Procurement
David I                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM     Fin. Management
Haixia Li                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EAPFM     Fin. Management
Xiaoping Li                    Senior Procurement Specialist           AFTPC    Procurement
Chongwu Sun                    Sr. Environmental Specialist            EASCS    Environment
Lynn Wang                      Financial Management                   EAPFM     Fin. Management
                                                                      EASTE –
Stuart Whitehead               Financial Specialist                             Financial Analysis
                                                                         HIS
Ning Yang                      Environmental Spec.                     EASCS    Environment
Songling Yao                   Social Development Spec.                EASCS    Social
Zhun Zhang                     Institutional Specialist                 Cons.   Institutional
Fang Zhang                     Financial Management Analyst           EAPFM     Fin. Management
Wu Ning                        Financial Specialist                     Cons.   Fin. Analysis
Wenyan Dong                    Operation Analyst                       EASCS    Institutional
Vellet Fernandes               Program Assistant                       EASIN    Program Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  US$ Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending

                                                 34
  FY00                       1.3      2.71
  FY01                       3.46    15.71
  FY02                       3.73    25.01
  FY03                      24.76   126.59
  FY04                      75.02   419.48
  FY05                       0.65     3.38
                  Total:   108.9    593.64
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                      15.25    29.72
  FY06                      13.77    39.83
  FY07                       9.6     25.65
  FY08                      15.46    53.42
  FY09                       7.0
  FY10                       8.27
  FY11                       0.6
                  Total:    69.95   148.62




                           35
        Annex 6. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                      CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

1.     This Annex is a summary of the very comprehensive Borrower’s Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), and does not repeat matters presented in the main text of the ICR. In
addition to providing a detailed account of implementation, achievements and outcomes, the
Borrower’s ICR provides a good discussion of project design, ground realities, and lessons and
suggestions for future project formulation. For completeness, the Bank ICR has drawn liberally
from the Borrower’s ICR.

A.     Achievements and Outputs

2.     Environmental Achievements. 100,000 m3/day of wastewater treatment capacity was
added to Wuxi Municipality, raising the wastewater treatment capacity in the project areas by
26.5 percent. 180,000 m3/day of wastewater treatment capacity was added to Suzhou
Municipality, raising the wastewater treatment capacity for Suzhou old town center by 50
percent. Major pollutants reduction include 0.81tons/d of total phosphorus (TP), 4.39 tons/d of
Ammonia Nitrogren (NH3-N), 63.77 tons/d of COD and 30.10 tons/d of BOD5 in Suzhou and
0.17 tons/d of TP, 1.23 tons/d of NH3-N, and 18.64 tons/d of COD in Wuxi.

3.     Wastewater Investment Planning and Prioritization. An important output of the project
was the development of wastewater master plans for Wuxi and Suzhou Municipalities:

(a) Suzhou Municipality Wastewater Master Plan. The 2007-2020 Suzhou wastewater master
plan was approved by Suzhou Municipal Government at the beginning of 2010. The
implementation of the wastewater projects indicated in the Suzhou Master Plan has been started.

(b) Wuxi Municipality Wastewater Master Plan. The wastewater master plan for Wuxi
Municipality has been drafted, and is still under review and modification. Based on this draft
plan, in March 2010, Wuxi prepared the proposals for wastewater management for the 12th Five-
Year-Plan, which sought to strengthen drainage management in Wuxi municipality, enhance the
wastewater management capability, and target social-economically sustainable development as
the ultimate goal.

4.      Institutional Strengthening. Project preparation for the institutional development and
training (IDT) component set out some laudable objectives, which were generally consistent with
Government policy objectives and which aimed to provide for long term project sustainability.
These objectives included: (i) greater institutional consolidation in the wastewater sector in
Wuxi; (ii) encouraging increased commercialization in wastewater management; (iii) full cost
recovery through the user charges; and (iv) integrated management of WWTP and wastewater
collection networks. The preparatory phase also identified sludge disposal as a key secondary
pollution issue that needed to be properly addressed. Unfortunately, the practicality of
implementing some of the specific reforms proposed during the preparations, and agreed at
appraisal, do not seem to have been as well thought through or anticipated as they perhaps

                                              36
should have been. Specific examples were the proposed conversion of the wastewater fee to
become a user charge, and the potential political obstacles in institutional consolidation that
existed locally. If these had been foreseen at the time then possibly an alternative reform strategy
to meet the same objectives could have been formulated.

5.     IDT objectives have been partially achieved. In Suzhou, the provision of wastewater
services is now fully corporatized, integrated wastewater management is practiced except in
Huishan District, and the distribution of wastewater tariffs is now conducted in a manner that
meets the understandings reached at appraisal. However, in both Suzhou and Wuxi, the
wastewater fee remains a government-administered fee, and there has been no institutional
consolidation of the Wuxi wastewater sector.

6.       Institutional, Financial and Operations Training. This technical assistance was
included under Package TA B1.The procurement of this package was delayed until towards the
end of the project implementation period in order to allow the project companies to focus
initially on the physical construction aspects of project implementation, and also because some
of the companies were set up initially as project construction entities rather than as wastewater
utilities. The Package was procured in the autumn of 2008 and a one-year contract was signed,
although it was subsequently extended by six months when the World Bank loan closure was
extended. The TA consultant has provided advice, training and support to the project companies,
the TBUEPO, local PMOs and related project agencies in the areas of institutional development,
utility management, business planning, financial management, operational management,
wastewater tariffs and management and information systems (MIS).

B.     Capacity Building

7.      Financial Capacity Building and Business Planning. The three project companies were
intended to be the end borrowers of the World Bank loan and to be responsible for debt
repayment from their own revenues. They were also expected to assume the risks associated with
any interest and foreign exchange rate fluctuations that might occur. The current method of
financing the companies via a budgetary allocation means that, in practice, the financial risks
associated with borrowing are currently being assumed by the local governments and not by the
project companies themselves, as without a dedicated source of service income of their own the
companies have no capacity to assume such risk. However, it is now proposed that the project
companies enter into service agreements with their respective local governments. Provided that
the fee structures and levels within these service agreements provide for debt servicing and asset
replacement obligations, then the companies will acquire the required financial capacity to
assume the stated risks. Such a contracting and fee arrangement will also allow for the TBUEP
financial covenants to be met.

8.      All the project companies have computerized accounting and financial management
systems and their staff are familiar with the use of these systems. The Package B1 TA consultant
has provided support in the preparation of business plans, in financial planning and in
establishing budgetary procedures and reporting.




                                                37
9.      MIS Development. The information systems of SDC and the SMDD in Suzhou are
already reasonably sophisticated by Chinese standards. These organisations have shown
themselves capable of implementing and maintaining such information technology (IT) systems,
which include a geographic information system (GIS) of the wastewater collection network. The
future focus will be on incremental improvement, and especially in data capture. These systems
were mostly developed when both SDC and SMDD were a single organization and systems and
data sharing has continued following the institutional reform.

10.      In contrast, the IT systems in XWTC and HWTC are in their infancy. This is largely
because these small companies are still immature organizations and do not have specialist IT
staff to support systems development and/or operations. However, being smaller companies their
MIS needs are also more modest. The TA consultant has suggested simple IT strategies for these
companies, with the identified priorities being on improving MIS for process control and for
financial management.

11.     Operational Management Capacity. All the WWTPs financed by the TBUEP loan are
operating to their design standards and are adequately staffed. Operating systems have been
established at each WWTP and the staff have the technical capacity to operate the processes on a
day to day basis. A more in-depth understanding of the treatment process and how its
performance can be enhanced has been given under TA Package B1.

C.     Achievement of TBUEP Institutional and Financial Reforms

Status of Reform Progress, Explanation for Proposed Alternatives.

12.      Institutional Reforms in Suzhou. The legal agreements stipulate that the following
institutional and financial arrangements would operate in Suzhou: (i) SQCC would levy and
retain all wastewater charges collected from the Old Districts of Suzhou; (ii) SQCC would own
the TBUEP-constructed assets and be responsible for debt servicing; (iii) SQCC would outsource
management and operations of the TBUEP assets to the new SDC (although it also assumes that
this should be competitive); (iv) SQCC would generate sufficient funds to meet the stipulated
financial covenants (cost recovery and debt service); and (v) SDC would also manage the other
wastewater assets (non-TBUEP funded) serving the Old Districts

13.      The arrangements set out in the legal agreements appear to be flawed in that:
(i) If all funding goes to SQCC, but SQCC is only responsible for TBUEP assets then how are
other parts of the wastewater system financed?
(ii) The financial covenants only relate to SQCC and hence TBUEP assets. This would not
provide for financial sustainability of the whole wastewater sector, which is the objective of
these covenants.
(iii) Asset ownership of the non-TBUEP assets is not referred to.

14.     These flaws are fundamental in nature and, in themselves, justify an alternative approach
to the achievement of the original reform objective. That objective is that the institutional and
financial arrangements should give adequate assurance over the sustainability of wastewater



                                               38
services in Suzhou. Specific issues and considerations regarding how to achieve this objective
are therefore discussed here.

15.      Asset Ownership. Currently asset ownership is fragmented. While all the wastewater
assets are government owned, the custodial arrangements are split between SQCC, SDC and the
Suzhou Water Affairs Bureau (SWAB, under Suzhou Drainage Administration). It is logical for
custody of all wastewater system assets to be unified. How this is done depends on the
institutional arrangements decided upon.

16.     Institutional Reforms in Xishan District, Wuxi. The proposed institutional reforms in
Xishan District, Wuxi were that an institutional consolidation would take place whereby all
wastewater services in the District would be provided by XWTC. Despite Xishan confirming this
intention to the Bank in 2007, this consolidation has not been implemented. The current situation
is that local administrations within Xishan (such as township governments) generally own and
manage their own wastewater collection networks and WWTPs. The only exception is the
Anzhen WWTP catchment which is managed by XWTC, the designated TBUEP project
company. XWTC also constructed and owns Phase 2 of the Dongting WWTP in the Dongting
EDZ of Xishan, while Dongting EDZ constructed and owns Phases 1 and 3 of that WWTP, and
manages the entire facility.

17.     In order to rationalize this fragmented situation with respect to the ownership of
Dongting WWTP, the plan was to transfer the whole plant to XWTC. However, the Dongting
EDZ Administration, which is the statutory authority responsible for the EDZ area, and which is
fully autonomous from Xishan District Government, objected to this proposal, As Dongting EDZ
was established as a national-level economic zone, this situation could only be resolved by
Jiangsu Province referring this matter to the national level. The outcome of such a referral would
be uncertain given the objections to the transfer from the EDZ, which argues that the WWTP and
the wastewater collection network are best managed locally and together with other EDZ
infrastructure, such as local roads. Jiangsu Province does not believe this issue merits such a
referral and therefore, after consultation with Xishan and Dongting EDZ, a compromise solution
of transferring the Phase 2 WWTP to Dongting EDZ (together with the related debt servicing
obligation) was proposed. This solution has also now been accepted by the World Bank and is in
the process of being implemented. Dongting WWTP already has well established operations with
experienced management, so the proposed solution does not adversely affect the standards of
O&M of the TBUEP facility or its long term sustainability.

18.     Similar objections have been made by the township governments in Xishan to the
concept of the local WWTP being brought under XWTC management. These WWTPs were
domestically funded and are not part of the TBUEP, but their operational performance is
important to achievement of TBUEP objectives and hence the concern during TBUEP project
preparations that they be properly managed. The funding arrangements for these WWTPs and the
misgivings of the townships governments now make it politically difficult for Xishan District
Government to implement its earlier WWTP management consolidation proposal, even though
this could lead to greater efficiency and better use of technical expertise. Therefore, for the time
being at least, Xishan does not propose to pursue this reform. This situation was explained to the
World Bank mission in November 2009, and the Mission, on making a site visit, conceded the

                                                39
townships’ plants appeared to be well managed and adequately funded. Thus the project team
does not believe a failure to implement this reform will impact on TBUEP objectives in any way.

19.      Wuxi authorities have indicated that reform of the wastewater sector is likely in the
medium term, and that rationalization of the numerous institutions at all levels would be a
desirable objective for such reform. While, there are no specific plans or timeline for this
rationalization at the present time, they point out that a similar rationalization has been achieved
in the Wuxi water supply sector, and that integrated management of water supply and wastewater
is becoming increasingly popular in China. The TBUEP experience in Xishan, however,
illustrates the practical difficulties such a reform would face, including undoubtedly requiring
strong leadership from senior levels in the Wuxi Municipal Government.

Retention of a Government-Administered Wastewater Fee

20.     Suzhou and Wuxi Municipalities, in common with almost all Chinese municipalities,
levy common wastewater charge across all urban areas under their jurisdiction. However, as
identified in the PAD, the real costs of providing wastewater services vary between different
Districts. These variations in costs relate to greater treatment process economies of scale in
highly populated central urban areas, and also naturally higher wastewater collection costs in
outlying, less populated urban areas.

21.      The use of a wastewater fee levied by government allows for greater flexibility in the
distribution and application of the fees, as well as some other advantages that include:
(i) wastewater charge proceeds can be distributed on the basis of real needs (and costs), thus
retaining the common wastewater charge across the whole municipality;
(ii) fees can be charged on unconnected properties, whereas commercial charges could be
charged only where a service is provided. Thus, the regime of charging government fees
encourages connection to the wastewater collection network, whereas use of commercial charges
could discourage connection.
(iii) the fee proceeds can be distributed among individual service providers and stakeholders,
where institutional arrangements either segregate operations and asset management or separate
these responsibilities from debt servicing or the financing of new capital investment.

22.     In contrast, the introduction of a commercial charge would require each service
provider’s level of charge to be individually assessed based on their specific service obligations
and needs. This would result in different levels of wastewater charges between the different
service providers and almost certainly a lower charge in the richer central area than in poorer
outlying areas. These differential charges could be very difficult to justify from a political
perspective and would be socially regressive in their impact. Thus, the retention of the current
fee arrangement can be justified for the time being on the following grounds of:

(i) being fairer to all wastewater dischargers, as they have no control over economies of scale or
how services are organized (the institutional arrangements);
(ii) being easier to justify to wastewater dischargers (as all pay the same within the whole
municipal area);
(iii) encouraging dischargers to connect (as they pay anyway); and

                                                40
(iv) the arrangements being compatible with current institutional arrangements.

23.     Given the above arguments we believe the retention of the government fee is fully
justified for the time being and that this proposed reform was flawed and did not adequately take
account of the specific circumstances in Suzhou and Wuxi. It is accepted that, in hindsight,
authorities in Jiangsu Province should have raised this issue more emphatically with the World
Bank at the time of loan negotiations.

D.     Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors out of the control of the local government or the implementing agency

24.    The exchange rate of US$ to the Chinese RMB changed from 1:8.3 at the time of project
appraisal in July 2005, to 1:6.90 in June 2008.

25.    The rule that the contract should be awarded to the bidder who offered the lowest bid
price was questioned. Some issues have occurred where contracts are awarded on the basis of
the lowest cost with the contractor subsequently trying to increase his payments as a result of
ambiguities in the contract documents. It has, therefore, been identified that contract documents
in general should be of a higher quality to prevent this practice from occurring.

Factors under the control of the local government

26.     The Project was carried out in locations where economies were rapidly developing. Some
project components were regarded as key contributors to the local economic development.

27.     Because World Bank procedures can take some time compared to local procurement
procedures, some contracts were procured by PIUs using 100 percent local funding (non-Bank
financed). This was the main reason that the original amount of the World Bank loan was not
fully utilized.

Factors under the control of the project implementing units (PIUs)

28.     Actually bidding prices and outturn costs in many cases were significantly lower than
appraisal estimates that were based on the government’s standard pricing criteria, which was the
reason for loan savings. The project has enabled the PIUs to improve their capacity and
efficiency in project management. Due to the comparatively long project implementation period
there have been a number of changes in the project management personnel. The comparatively
long project implementation period caused some difficulties during project implementation, but
the end result has not been adversely affected.

E.     Prospect of Sustainability

29.      To identify a project as sustainable, the following principles should be adhered to: (i)
satisfactory transition to full operations with the staff able to operate and maintain the facilities;
(ii) institutional arrangements put in place; and (iii) assessment made on whether or not there are

                                                 41
adequate financing arrangements for financial sustainability. From the project team’s viewpoint
and in consideration of the aforementioned principles, the Project can be regarded as sustainable.
The newly built WWTPs are operating well and being maintained appropriately. The wastewater
tariffs form an integral part of financial sustainability. However, the operation costs for some
small-scale WWTPs are relatively high, which has led to financial shortages for the local
governmental in this part, as cross-compensation may still be required. It is believed that the
combination of the newly established institutional arrangements with new tariffs and project
companies will provide a solid foundation for the sustainable development of wastewater
services in Suzhou and Wuxi municipalities. In this section, each of the three aspects is
considered in turn.

30.      Transition to Full Operations and Operational Management Capacity. All five of the
WWTPs constructed or expanded under TBUEP have been successfully commissioned and are
treating effluent to their design quality standards. The volumes treated by each plant are
increasing as collection networks are expanded and economic development proceeds. There is
little doubt the facilities will be fully utilized within a few years.

31.     All the WWTPs are being operated by the in-house staff of the project companies, and
the staffing is adequate in terms of numbers and technical capacity to undertake the day-to-day
operational duties. At each WWTP, detailed operating and maintenance systems have been
established and are continuously evolving as greater experience with the local operating situation
is gained.

32.      Although the TBUEP facilities were designed to achieve the national Class 1B effluent
standard, the effluent discharge standard has subsequently been raised to Class 1A. Therefore,
during 2008 and 2009 each of the WWTPs has had to undergo further upgrading of their
facilities to achieve this higher standard -- primarily using domestic funding. This upgrading
were fully completed and effective at all the WWTPs by the second half of 2010, at which time
all the TBUEP facilities are capable of producing effluent to the Class 1A standard ensuring their
operations are compatible with the latest environmental quality objective that has been set.

33.    We therefore consider the TBUEP facilities and the operations capacity created provide
good assurance for the long term sustainability of WWTP operations in the project area at
standards which exceed the original project targets.

34.    Institutional Arrangements. During 2009 it was agreed that each project company would
operate under a service agreement signed with its relevant local government. These service
agreements fully define the relationship between the companies and their government owners
and supervisors, and once implemented will enhance management and financial autonomy
accordingly, and in line with the TBUEP institutional objectives.

35.     Institutional development will be an evolutionary process to ensure: (i) mechanisms are
put in place which create incentives for further service and efficiency improvements (to the
extent this needs to be done after service agreements are implemented); (ii) a
regulatory/supervisory mechanism is established such that each local government retains arms-
length control over wastewater management. Under current proposals, the regulatory mechanism

                                               42
will be based around the service agreements and performance of the Project Companies will be
monitored against agreed business plans; and (iii) effective operation is achieved. Although
consolidation of the management of the Xishan wastewater sector has not yet been achieved, the
institutions involved are all currently operating effectively. It is accepted the small scale of these
institutions does raise a concern over future sustainability of the arrangements. The Wuxi
Municipal Government (WMG) is aware of this issue and, at the appropriate time, will move to
deal with this.

36.     In conclusion, the project team believes a strategy exists that will create institutions that
can prove themselves as genuinely sustainable. To date, greater progress has been made in this
respect in Suzhou than in Wuxi (where the local situation is more complex) -- but the required
framework is already in the process of being implemented in both cities.

37.     Operation of Facilities. The project components relating to wastewater treatment
involved the expansion of existing WWTPs and the strengthening of operational capacity. The
two newly-built WWTPs are now fully operational. Once the specified effluent quality of the
treated effluent from all five WWTPs was met, the operation and maintenance arrangements
were finalized. Experienced operational staff were recruited for the newly-built Xishan and
Huishan WWTPs. New staff training was started at the same time as the commissioning of the
WWTPs. In addition, the Consultants engaged for TA Package B3 have provided advice and
training with regards to operational procedures and treatment processes. The training also
covered aspects of asset management systems and an awareness of pollution control, together
with inflow quality control to address the issue of pollution at source.

38.    Following Project completion, all the WWTPs’ effluents have complied with the
requirements of the Class-1A National Discharge Standard. The wastewater treatment rate
reached 100 percent, and all sewer and pipeline system performance was satisfactory.

F.     The Bank and Borrower’s Function

39.    The Bank. The Bank’s assistance during project identification, preparation, appraisal and
implementation proved to be extremely helpful. The Bank’s staff have worked very hard and
made all PIUs feel satisfied. The Bank’s Representative Office in Beijing has provided timely
advice on World Bank project procedures and has reviewed and provided feedback on the
bidding documents, which was highly appreciated.

40.    The World Bank performance both during the loan preparation period and during the
supervision period proved to be satisfactory, with two supervision missions per year. The World
Bank staff have left a remarkable impression on the local project units and have satisfied the
Jiangsu Provincial Government. During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank staff
provided instructive assistance to projects in both Suzhou and Wuxi. All bidding documents and
bid evaluation reports were approved by the Bank in a timely manner. In addition, the Bank
provided valuable guidance to the Borrower regarding the revised use of the remaining loan.

41.   The Borrower. During project implementation, the various levels of the government
have provided concrete support, and project management offices (PMOs) at all levels have

                                                 43
performed their functions in partnership with the various PIUs. PIUs of all project components
have ensured that all resources were put in place to ensure successful implementation of the
Project. The Government has assisted PIUs of all project components in obtaining sufficient
counterpart funds.

42.   Municipal governments of the project cities have greatly contributed to the
implementation of the tariff charges. Rapidly rising tariffs have an impact on social and
economic conditions. To this end, the government will progressively adjust the tariff.

G.     Lessons Learned

43.     The Tai Basin Urban Environment Project has been very successful, with most of its
original objectives achieved particularly in terms of institutional interventions. The World Bank
was not only a funding resource but also provided state-of-the-art management experience
regarding project implementation and business operations such as modern project management,
international bidding and contracting, construction supervision, international routine practices,
performance measurement, and project completion reporting. Significant capacity building in
relevant aspects of procurement using World Bank’s guidelines, contracting and project
management, WWTP facility operations and maintenance, environmental monitoring, and
financial management have been achieved. In particular, application of the Bank’s construction
management procedures, demonstrating fairness and accuracy, were considered to be a
prerequisite of project success.

(a) Project Highlights.
44.     Capacity building for project officials. The project has provided training to municipal
officials for utilization of international funding in project preparation, application, design,
construction, supervision, project management, reimbursement and disbursement, and well as
project wrap-up procedures. A number of project entities, including relevant government
departments, implementation units, design institutes, contractors and construction supervision
teams, have gained useful knowledge, such as procurement and project management
methodology and Bank safeguards principals. The experience gained from the Project will be a
great benefit to those undertaking similar work in the future.

45.     Improved overall water quality for the project cities. The improvement in water quality
of the water network in Suzhou municipality could only have been achieved with two vital
actions: (i) WWTPs’ expansion and water pollution prevention, and (ii) city-wide canal network
dredging. The surface water quality in major urban areas in Suzhou municipality has been
improved due to relevant components of the Project, including the engineering of water gates,
flooding control facilities, canal dredging, wastewater interception, as well as the provision of
WWTPs. It is significant that both Suzhou and Wuxi municipalities have received awards for
contribution to water quality improvement during the period of the Project construction.

46.    Improved images for the project cities. The success of the Project has enabled both
Suzhou and Wuxi municipalities to be awarded with a number of honors within the Project
implementation period. All these honors involve surface water control in urban areas -- to which
the Bank has made great contributions: (i) Suzhou – National Clean City; (ii) Suzhou – World

                                               44
Cultural & Heritage City; (iii) Suzhou – National Key Tourist City; (iii) Suzhou – 2008 World
Outstanding Health City Award; (iv) Wuxi – “Global Green City” of 2009 awarded by UN; (v)
Wuxi – Green Environmental Protection City Special Contribution Award; and (vi) Wuxi – 2006
Residential Environment Award of China (Water Environment Improvement Top Model City).

47.     Improvement of the flood control capability for Suzhou City. The project has provided
several hydraulic control facilities. The completion of Xujiang Gate Engineering means the
completion of the entire flood control program of the Suzhou Downtown Area (total of 82 km2),
from the original once-in-50-years flood control level up to a once-in-100-years level. The flood
control program of Suzhou commenced in 2004 and was completed in 6 years. The Project
investment in canal dredging and provision of several hydraulic control facilities, together with
other locally funded facilities, has enabled Suzhou to complete its flood control program.

48.     Effluent quality monitoring by EPB. The acceptance of the WWTPs has been supported
by an online automatic monitoring system, which was installed by the local Environment
Protection Bureau (EPB). In the Tai Basin area, wastewater treatment effluent is all monitored
independently by the local EPB. This on-line monitoring data is provided for WWTPs’ use and
at the same time it directly links to the headquarter offices of the EPBs. By Project completion
(the end of June 2010), all WWTPs under the Project were installed with on-line monitoring
equipment, and all the data is being collected.

49.    Sludge Management. When the two major wastewater treatment plants in Suzhou were
completed, the issue of sludge handling increased in importance. The Suzhou Fuxin wastewater
treatment plant has started operation, and the daily sludge production is 120 tons/day. The
Loujiang wastewater treatment plant sludge production is 70-80 tons/day. Both plants use belts
for dewatering the sludge. The dewatered sludge has 80 to 82 percent water content. The sludge
from Fuxin wastewater treatment plant is transported by barge via the Grand Canal, and the
sludge from the Loujiang wastewater treatment plant is transported by truck. Both are
transported to a local landfill site. A review was also made in 2009 of sludge handling in the
Wuxi Huishan and Xishan wastewater treatment plants, and the report showed that the sludge is
being appropriately handled and disposed of. In Suzhou, the Suzhou Water Administration
Bureau has started to consider a new sludge master plan for the WWTPs in the city, and is
looking for a longer-term suitable treatment and disposal solution.

50.     During the construction, the PIUs and contractors attached great importance to the
protection of local cultural relics. For example, the Xujiang Gate Component in Suzhou was
implemented near municipal-level cultural heritage site (the Rainbow Bridge and Hengtang Post
House). All parties involved took suitable protection measures , including keeping relevant
construction an appropriate distance away from the cultural heritage site.

51.    Project success encouraging next Bank loan project. By implementing this Project, all
the municipalities involved have accumulated experience and enriched their understanding and
comprehension of World Bank project requirements. Wuxi municipality has already begun to
prepare a future Bank project.




                                               45
(b) Notices for Future.
52.     Prevention of unreasonable contract variations. PMOs and PIUs emphasized the
importance of accurately preparing the bidding documents, including designs, specifications and
Bill of Quantity, etc. This will benefit the PIUs by preventing unreasonable variations later
during the construction.

53.   Familiarity with procurement procedures. It was noted that, in future similar projects,
PIUs would benefit from guidance with regards to the Bank’s procurement procedures.

54.     Shortening of the project preparation period. This Project identification started at the end
of 2001, and the loan agreement was signed in November 2004, making the overall project
preparation time three years. This duration of project preparation was too long for some of the
components. For instance, Xishan government in Wuxi City had plans to construct five WWTPs
during 2001 to 2005, including Anzhen and Dongting Phase 2 WWTPs. Because of the longer
period of Bank project preparation, these WWTPs were not completed by 2005. In addition,
some of the wastewater pipeline projects required some engineering variations as a result of the
delays. It is suggested that in future Bank projects it would be better to consider these factors and
try to shorten the project preparation duration.

(c) Specific lessons learned.
55.    It is vital to the success of project implementation to have : (i) strong government
support, fulfillment of covenants agreed and close cooperation by all parties in the Project; (ii)
timely applications and approvals for domestic authorities of various levels; and (iii) a strong
and stable project management organization.

•   The transferring of supervisory responsibility for the Project from Bank headquarters office
    in Washington DC to Beijing Office greatly helped communications between TBUEPO and
    the Bank. The arrangement of a China-based Bank task manager also brought with it a
    greater benefit for the Project: it helped the understanding of the local situation and
    constraints faced by the implementing agencies, together with bringing a more constructive
    approach to problem solving.

•   Some of the covenants required in the Loan Agreement in relation to institutional
    development and financial reform were not implemented in the Project. In hindsight, some of
    these problems could have been foreseen; this was disappointing both for the Bank and the
    Borrower. More dialogue and rigorous risk assessment of the proposed reforms during the
    Project preparation might help to avoid this situation in the future.

•   Institutional reforms in China can take considerable time and effort to implement. In the
    earlier stages of the Project, inadequate attention was given to this aspect, and there were
    unrealistic expectations.




                                                 46
                    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


                 CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Loan Agreement
3. Project Agreement
4. Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to- Office reports
5. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports
6. Semi-annual Project Progress Reports
7. Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report




                                          47
                            Annex 8: Environmental Monitoring Indicators

                               CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

1.       This annex provides detailed data on pollution reduction, water quality and performance
of the wastewater treatment plants financed under the project. These data supplement the
project’s outcome/output indicators. The annex provides summary environmental data that
illustrates the impact of the project on: (i) wastewater collection and treatment; (ii) influent and
effluent water quality in the WWTPs; (iii) reduction of pollutants; (iv) surface water quality
(annual average); and (v) impact of Suzhou river dredging on ground water quality.

A      Wastewater Collection and Treatment.
2.     Table 1 illustrates the project’s contribution to reducing the discharge of untreated
wastewater to the river systems. Significant improvements in the collection and treatment rates
were achieved in service areas both in Wuzi and Suzhou. The collection and treatment rates for
WWTPs in Wuxi increased from zero to about 90 percent and 80 percent, respectively. In
Suzhou, the rates increased to 92 percent and 90.3 percent, respectively.

                                  Table 1: Water Collection and Treatment Rates
    Wuxi Components                                                            Collection Rate                    Treatment Rate
       Huishan WWTP                                                                  85                                85
       Dongting WWTP                                                                 90                                85
       Anzhen WWTP                                                                   80                                70
    Suzhou Components
       Loujiang WWTP                                                                  92                               90.3
       Fuxing WWTP                                                                    92                               90.3

B       Influent and Effluent Water Quality in the WWTPs.
3.      Jiansu Province mandated that all WWTPs in the Lake Tai Protection Area treat
wastewater meet the Class 1A discharge standards (see Table 2 below), adopting tertiary
treatment. The data in Tables 2 and 3 and Charts 1 through 4, below) depict achievement of the
stipulated discharge standard at the WWTPs constructed under the project.

      Table 2: Discharge Standard of Pollutants for Municipal Wastewater (GB18918-2002)
                                                    Class 1                                  Class 2                  Class 3
                                          A                            B
            COD                          50                           60                        100                     120
           BOD5                          10                           20                         30                      60
                 [1]
            TP                         0.5 (1)                      1 (1.5)                      3                       5
                       2
          NH3-N                         5 (8)                       8 (15)                    25 (30)                    -
     [1] The value in a bracket applies if the wastewater treatment plant was constructed before Dec. 31, 2005.
     [2] The value in a bracket applies when water temperature is below 12C.


4.     Huishan WWTP. The figures in Table 3 indicate that the treated effluent discharged at
the Huishan WWTP achieved the Class 1A discharge standard following tertiary treatment.


                                                                    48
However, the project financed tertiary treatment only at the Phase 2 plant; the other plants
(Phases 1 and 3) were upgraded with own funds.

                     Table 3: Treated Effluent Discharge at Huishan WWTP
              Year           Pollutant          COD            TP             NH3-N
                               mg/l
              2007      Influent                275           1.83                17.37
                        Effluent                 60           0.91                 1.89
              2008      Influent                149            1.8                  19
                        Effluent                 39           0.37                 1.33
              2009      Influent                205            2.2                 15.4
                        Effluent                 35            0.3                  1.3
              2010      Influent                278            2.6                 16.4
                        Effluent                36.2          0.23                  1.3


5.     Charts 1 through 4 show average water quality before and after treatment at each WWTP.
The project financed secondary treatment to meet Class 1 discharge standards. Tertiary treatment
was subsequently added with own funds.

                                     Chart 1: Dongting WWTP




                                                                         (mg/l)



                                         Chart 2: Anzhen WWTP




                                                                         (mg/l)


                                                  49
                                  Chart 3: Loujiang WWTP




                                                                      (mg/l)




                                   Chart 4: Fuxing WWTP




                                                                     (mg/l)




C       Reduction of Pollutants
6.      As shown in the charts and tables below, the project achieved significant pollution load
reductions, particularly in the reduction of COD, which is a key indicator of pollution. The
removal of these amounts of pollution contributed to mitigating further deterioration of water
quality in the Tai Basin rivers.


Wuxi Components




                                              50
   Chart 5: Huishan WWTP Pollution Reduction (tons/yr)




          Table 4: Huishan WWTP Treatment Volumes
Year                                  WW Treated m3/yr
2007                                             3,881,000
2008                                             5,536,000
2009                                             8,378,000
2010*                                            4,580,000
Total                                           22,375,000
*The figure in 2010 is up to the end of June.



  Chart 6: Dongting WWTP Pollution Reduction (tons/yr)




                                          51
                        Table 5 shows data up to June 2010.




                            Table 6: Anzhen WWTP Pollution Reduction (tons/yr)
       Year            TP Reduction               NH3-N                   COD              BOD       WW Treated
                         (tons/yr)              Reduction              Reduction        Reduction      m3/yr
                                                 (tons/yr)              (tons/yr)        (tons/yr)
  2008-2010                   8.1                   61                     810               -        9,500,000
  Note: Table 6 shows average figure from July 2008 to end of June 2010.




Suzhou Components

                           Chart 7: Loujiang WWTP Pollution Reduction (tons/yr)




                                 Table 8: Loujiang WWTP Treatment Volumes
                                      Year                                 WW Treated m3/yr
                         2009                                                39,598,000
                         To end of June 2010                                 19,104,000
                         Total                                               58,702,000




                                                                 52
                         Chart 8: Fuxing WWTP Pollution Reduction (tons/yr)




                               Table 9: Fuxing WWTP Treatment Volumes
                                  Year                   WW Treated m3/yr
                                  2009                      4,124.0
                               To May 2010                  1,796.1
                                  Total




D       Surface Water Quality (Annual Average)
7.      The following tables provide water quality data of the receiving water bodies after
treatment (of inflows to the water body) at the project’s WWTPs. Water quality in the receiving
water bodies did not immediately improve because wastewater flows to the WWTP initially
included both domestic and industrial wastewater, as it requires different treatment. In fact, the
water quality during the period of 2003 to 2008 was even worse than before WWTP
commissioning in some locations. Nevertheless, in general, surface water quality data indicate
that the water quality in receiving waters gradually improved after implementation of the project.
For ease of reference, the Chinese Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Water are
reproduced in Table 15, further below.

              Table 10: Wuxi Dongting WWTP (milligrams per liter [mg/l], except pH)
  Year       Receiving        Monitoring      pH        COD       NH3-N        TP         DO
            Water Body         Section
  2003      Xinxintang         Yacheng        7.44       42        4.41        0.28       1.9
  2007        - Jiulihe         Qiao          7.43       56        6.73        0.53       2.5
  2008                                        7.43       38        4.81        0.31       1.9
  2009                                        7.63       27        3.51        0.24       3.4

                           Table 11: Wuxi Anzhen WWTP (mg/l, except pH)
 Year      Receiving          Monitoring      pH        COD        NH3-N        TP        DO
           Water Body         Section
 2003                                          7.6       22         7.89        0.4        2.6
 2007      Shengtanghe        Baimitang       7.26       22         1.85       0.36        6.6
 2008                         Qiao            7.54       24         5.66       0.39        1.6

                                                53
2009                                       7.43            23               2.08          0.20                4.3

                     Table 12: Wuxi Huishan WWTP (mg/l, except pH)
Year   Receiving      Monitoring          pH             COD              NH3-N               TP              DO
       Water Body     Section
2003                                      7.46            28                3.93          0.35                 4.2
2008   Xibei          Wuhao Qiao          7.62            44                3.23          0.57                 4.2
2009   Channel                            7.54            35                1.44           0.5                4.29
2010                                      6.64            27                 3.8          0.56                 4.3


                    Table 13: Suzhou Loujiang WWTP (mg/l, except pH)
Year   Receiving     Monitoring           pH             COD              NH3-N               TP          DO
       Water Body    Section
2009   Loujiang      Loujiang Bridge      7.7             8.5                2.5          0.243               6.3
       River

                     Table 14: Suzhou Fuxing WWTP (mg/l, except pH)
Year   Receiving     Monitoring           pH             COD               NH3-N               TP             DO
       Water Body    Section
2009                 Jinyuan Bridge       7.7             27.5               2.3              0.28             5.5



                    Environmental Quality Standards for Surface Water

             Standard    Categary
       No.         Value                Class I       Class II       Class III     Class IV     Class V
             Item

       1     PH                                                       6—9
                                       Saturation
       2     Dissolved oxygen          factor90%                 6           5            3               2
                                         or7.5
       3     Permanganate Index                   2              4           6           10            15
       4     BOD5                                 3              3           4            6            10
       5     NH3-N                           0.15           0.5              1           1.5              2
       6     Hg                          0.00005      0.00005          0.0001         0.001          0.001
       7     Lead                            0.01         0.01            0.05         0.05            0.1
       8     Volatile Phenol                0.002        0.002           0.005         0.01            0.1
       9     Oil                             0.05         0.05            0.05           0.5              1




                                                54
        E. Impact of Suzhou City River Dredging on Ground Water Quality

        8.      Monitoring data indicates that the river water quality improved after dredging and the groundwater quality did not change
        significantly at the sludge landfill. The monitoring was undertaken in September 2009 at both sites of the Phase-1 location and Phase-
        2 location. The monitoring results, as indicated below, show that the project achieved the desired improvement of the water quality in
        Suzhou Municipality. They also indicate that there is no significant impact on ground water quality.


        Table 16: Summary of Suzhou City River Dredging Ground Water Quality Monitoring (mg/l, except pH

 Date      Sampling                                                               Monitoring
           Location       pH      TSS     Total
                                                                     Nitrate-
                                          Hardn   PO3-     Phenol                CODMn    NH3-N      Zn      Cr6+       Pb       Ni      Cu      As
                                                                        N
                                           ess
Standard                 6.5       1000    450               0.1       20         3.0      0.2       1.0      0.01     0.05     0.05     1.0     0.05
                          8.5
Sept.    U1               7.4       400    355    0.13      <DL       0.43        4.3      0.34     0.036     <DL      0.003    <DL     0.005    <DL
10       U2               7.4       401    356    0.12      <DL       0.43        4.3      0.36     0.036     <DL      0.003    <DL     0.005    <DL
Sept.    U3               7.4       423    384    0.15      <DL       0.53        4.5      0.38     0.048     <DL      0.002    <DL     0.004    <DL
10       U4               7.4       420    374    0.14      <DL       0.52        4.5      0.38     0.045     <DL      0.002    <DL     0.004    <DL
        Note: DL=under detection limit




                                                                            55
      Annex 9: Status of Compliance with Key Institutional and Financial Covenants

                       CHINA: Tai Basin Urban Environment Project

Merger of Wastewater Facilities in Xishan District

PA Sched. 2, Para. 12(a): Jiangsu, through Wuxi shall cause Xishan District to furnish to the
Bank by December 31, 2005, a time-bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, for the merger in ownership, management and operation, of
wastewater companies serving and for the consolidation of wastewater management throughout
Xishan District by December 31, 2006.

Status: Not met. The merger of the Dongting WWTP and the Xishan Wastewater Treatment
Company (XWTC) did not take place. Construction of the Dongting WWTP, located in the
Xishan Economic Development Zone (XEDZ), was financed by the Xishan Economic
Development Zone Administration, which was already operating Phase 1 of the WWTP, and has
subsequently financed a third phase with its own funds. The project financed only Phase 2 of the
WWTP and some associated sewerage improvements. Xishan District had no jurisdiction over
the XEDZ, which is a national-level development zone set up under a central government
initiative. The Financial Bureaus of XEDZ and Xushan District had not settled financial
conditions of the merger of its facilities with the XWTC at the closing of the project.

Corporatization of Suzhou Drainage Facilities Management Division (DFMD)

PA Sched. 2, Para. 11(a): Jiangsu shall cause Suzhou to furnish to the Bank by December 31,
2005, a time-bound action plan, prepared in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, for the conversion of the DFMD within Suzhou Water Affairs Bureau into an independent
corporate entity by December 31, 2006; said entity to manage and oversee the operation and
maintenance of all wastewater systems in Suzhou’s central urban districts.

Status: Partially met. The corporatization of DFMD was completed in 2009, through
establishment of the Suzhou Drainage Company (SDC), with responsibility for O&M of
wastewater systems in Suzhou. However, wastewater assets in Suzhou, including assets
constructed under the project by Suzhou Qingyuan Construction Company Ltd. (SQCC), were
not transferred to SDC by the project closing because debt repayment liability was not settled.
Thus SDC was operating as a wastewater treatment company without ownership of assets.

Authorization to Levy and Collect Wastewater Tariffs

PA Sched. 2, Para. 10(a): Jiangsu shall cause each Project Municipality to authorize and enable
each of its respective Project Companies to levy and collect utility company wastewater tariffs
for wastewater management services provided by said Project Company, including the
establishment of utility company wastewater tariffs to replace the existing municipal wastewater
fees applied in each municipality.



                                              56
Status: Not met. The conversion of the wastewater fee, which is considered government
revenue, to a commercial tariff, though highly desirable in the longer term, did not materialize.
Without this conversion, the wastewater companies do not have the right to collect this revenue.


Return of Wastewater Tariff Revenues to Districts

PA Sched. 2, Para. 9: Jiangsu shall cause Wuxi to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 2005, a time-
bound action plan for the transfer of all revenues, which are collected from districts through
Wuxi’s municipal wastewater fees, to the districts from which said revenues were collected.

Status: Met. The Wuxi Municipal Government issued a regulation, “Rules for District and
Town Wastewater Performance, Tariff Collection and Allocation (Document 2009 No.293),”
which required the return of all wastewater revenues collected to the Districts. This regulation
became effective on October 10, 2009. Now, 90 percent of the wastewater revenue is returned at
the end of each quarter, and the balance of 10 percent is returned at the end of the year based on
the utility companies meeting performance standards, primarily meeting the stipulated discharge
standard. The Districts provide the wastewater companies with an adequate budget to meet O&M
costs, and provide them with additional subsidies to meet their debt services obligations.

Cost Recovery Performance

PA Sched. 3, Para. 8(a): HWTC, SQCC, WAMC, and XMTC each shall undertake for each of
fiscal year, commencing in fiscal year 2005, to produce total operating revenues related to its
wastewater operations equivalent to not less than the sum of: (i) its total operating expenses; (ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the provision for depreciation; and (iii)
the amount by which total non-operating expenses exceed total non-operating revenues.

Status: Not met. Although current tariffs in Suzhou and Wuxi municipalities were among the
highest in the country, and the wastewater companies could meet O&M costs after returning
wastewater tariff revenues to the Districts, none of the wastewater companies generated
sufficient revenue to meet the cost recovery covenant. This task was made more difficult after the
Provincial Government mandated the Class 1A discharge standard, which required tertiary
treatment in all WWTPs.

Debt Service Coverage Ratio

PA Sched. 3, Para. 9(a): HWTC, SQCC, WAMC, and XMTC each shall undertake not to incur
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated
net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3
times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt including the debt to
be incurred.

Status: Not met. None of the companies were able to achieve a debt coverage ratio of 1.3,
although additional debt was incurred only by HWTC, with the concurrence of the World Bank,
when the Bank agreed to finance the additional WWTP in Huishan utilizing loan savings.

                                                57
Moreover, it was not possible for SQCC to comply with the covenants because it had no revenue
stream – a fact that had been overlooked in drafting the covenants.




                                             58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 32768


                                                                                                                             Yangtze R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Satellite image date 1999.
                                                                                                                                      ive
                                                                                                                                          r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANGHAI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gp
                                                                                                                                                       anal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         v
                                                                                                                                              WangYu C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r
                                                                                                       JIANGSU                                                                                                                                                                               SHANGHAI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           uR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        gp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hu
                                                                                                                                                                      Xitanghe Water Diversion (existing)


        Changzhou                                                   Grand Can
                                                                                             al                       Wuxi                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              na
                                                                                                                                                                                   Suzhou                                                                              Pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ca
                                                                                                                                                  Grand Ca                                                                                                         Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                                                                                                        nal
                                                                                                                                     Dong
                                                                                                                                     Lake
                                                                                                                  Meiliang
                                                                                                                   Lake



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tai



                                                                                                                             LAKE TAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZHEJIANG


                                                                                                                                         Zhenjiang                                   120°                                                121°                                                   122°
                        RUSSIAN
                      FEDERATION                                                                                                   32°                                                       Jiangjiang                                                                                                     32°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                              Danyang                                                                               Nantong
                                                                                            HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                          Jiangyin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TAI BASIN URBAN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cha
                                                                                                                                    Jurong                                                                  Shangjiagangu


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ng
            MONGOLIA
                                                                                               JILIN
                                                                                                                                                      Jintan
                                                                                                                                                                                      Changzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                       JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Changshu
                                                                                                                  Sea of                                       Tao            Ge
                                                                                    LIAONING                      Japan JAPAN                                 Hu              Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wuxi                                                Jian                                                                               PROJECT CITIES (INSET)
CHINA
                                                NG
                                                     OL
                                                           BEIJING
                                                                                                   D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                     For Detail,                                                 Taicang                  g
                                           MO                                                       KOREA
                                    NE
                                       I                   BEIJING                                                                            Liyang                           see IBRD 32769
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Suzhou                 Kunshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Baoshan                                                                      TAI HU BASIN BOUNDARY
                                                                  HEBEI     TIANJIN                                                                                                                                                                      Jiading
                                                                                                        REP. OF                                                      Yixing                                                                                           SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         For Detail,
                                                                                            Yellow      KOREA                                                                                Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANGHAI                                                 GRAND CANAL, OTHER MAJOR CANALS
                          NINGXIA




                                                     SHANXI
                                                                      SHANDONG                                                                                                                                           see IBRD 32769
                                                                                             Sea                                                                                              Tai                                                  Qingpu                          Chuansha
        QINGHAI                                                                                                                                                                                                          Wujiang
                  GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Nanhui                                                   CANALS OR RIVERS (INSET)
                                                                                  JIA




                                    SHAANXI               HENAN                                           East                     31°                                                                                                    Songjiang
                                                                                     NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31°
                                                                          ANHUI                          China                                                                       Changxing                Pingwang                                             Minhang
                                                                                       SU




                                                                                            SHANGHAI      Sea                                                                                                                                      Jinshan                                                                                         MAIN ROADS (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Feng Xian
                                                          HUBEI                                  Area of map,                                                                                      Huzhou
                                            G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VE
                                                                                                                                     ANHUI
                                           IN




            SICHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS (INSET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BO
                                        Q




                                                                                    ZHEJIANG     RIGHT
                                    NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            y, A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jiaxing
                                    O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pinghu
                             CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ger
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZHEJIANG
                                                                     JIANGXI
                                                      HUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jin Wei                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ima
                          GUIZHOU                                                 FUJIAN                                                                                                   Anji                       Tongxiang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ite
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tell
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Deqing
                                                                                                                  PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f sa
         YUNNAN                                                                              TAIWAN                                                                                                                           Haining
                                                                                                                                                                                               Yuhang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ao
                                        GUANGXI              GUANGDONG                                            OCEAN                                                                                                                                              Are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wa
                                                                       HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                            angtang Jia                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                    MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sh                             zhou                                         0       20       40                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
            LAO       VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                         HANGZHOU                        ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng




             P.D.R.                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ha                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                 HAINAN                                                PHILIPPINES                                                                    120°                                                121°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JUNE 2004
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 32769R
                                                                                                                                                  120                                   121                        122

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHINA
                RUSSIAN
              FEDERATION                                                                                                 32                                                                                                   32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAI BASIN URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                                                                HEILONGJIANG




                                                                                                                                                                                 Cha
                                                                                                                                                                                   ng
    MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                      Changzhou
                                                                                                                                                                JIANGSU
                                                                                  JILIN




                                MO
                                     NG
                                        OL
                                              BEIJING
                                                                       LIAONING
                                                                                      D.P.R. OF
                                                                                       KOREA
                                                                                                     Sea of
                                                                                                     Japan JAPAN                                                  Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                  Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                            Area of map,
                                                                                                                                                                            BELOW                   Jian
                                                                                                                                                                                                        g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WUXI AND SUZHOU, PROJECT CITIES
                            NEI               BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                          Suzhou
                                                     HEBEI
                                                               TIANJIN
                                                                                           REP. OF                                                                                                    SHANGHAI                                                                                                       PROJECT CITIES (INSET)
                                                                                Yellow KOREA                                                            Lake                   Area of map,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANGHAI




                  NINGXIA
                                          SHANXI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TAI HU BASIN BOUNDARY
                                                         SHANDONG
                                                                                 Sea                                                                     Tai                   BELOW
QINGHAI
          GANSU




                                                                     JIA
                                                                                             East
                            SHAANXI          HENAN                                                                       31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRAND CANAL, OTHER MAJOR CANALS




                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31




                                                                        G
                                                             ANHUI                          China




                                                                           SU
                                                                                SHANGHAI     Sea
                                             HUBEI                                  Area of map,                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CANALS OR RIVERS (INSET)




                                    G
                                                                                                                              ANHUI




                                IN
    SICHUAN




                                Q
                                                                       ZHEJIANG     RIGHT




                            NG
                            O
                     CH
                  GUIZHOU
                                          HUNAN
                                                        JIANGXI

                                                                     FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                         ZHEJIANG                                                                                                                                                    MAIN ROADS (INSET)
 YUNNAN
                                                 GUANGDONG
                                                                                 TAIWAN              PACIFIC
                                                                                                     OCEAN                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILROADS (INSET)
                                GUANGXI

                                                          HONG KONG
                                                       MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                   Sh
                                                                                                                                                                     angtang Jia
                                                                                                                                                                                ng       zho
                                                                                                                                                                                             uW
                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0      20    40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
    LAO       VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                 ng
                                                                                                                                                                                   Ha                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
     P.D.R.
                                        HAINAN                                             PHILIPPINES                                            120
                                                                                                                                                               HANGZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                           121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)               Satellite images date 1999.



      WUXI                                                                                                     0     1        2       3   4   5                                                                                                                       SUZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0        1         2                        Loujiang WWTP
                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Existing 60,000 m3/d
                                                                                                                   (Scale approximate)                                                                                                                                                            Dredge                 KILOMETERS                            Project 80,000 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Disposal            (Scale approximate)
                                                                                                                                                             Anzhen sewerage                                                                                                                        Site                                      Canal Dredging
                                                                                                                                                           scheme 25,000 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                    Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Proposed Sewerage Network         (non-Bank financed)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           extension and rehabilitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (non-Bank financed)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shantang Gate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          & Shiplock

                                                                                               Huishan WWTP
                                                                                             Phase 1 25,000 m3/d
                                                                                             Phase 2 25,000 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Grand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Canal
                                                                                                                                                     Dongting WWTP
                                                                                                                                                  Existing 20,000 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                   Project 30,000 m3/d

                                                                                Proposed Wuxi City Sewerage Network                                                                                                                                                                                   Xujiang Gate
                                                                                   Rehabilitation and Extension area                                                                                                                                                                                   & Shiplock
                                                                                         (non-Bank financed)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wangyu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fuxin WWTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Existing 80,000 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project 100,000 m3/d


                                                                                                                                                                 Proposed Wuli Lake
                                                                                                                                                                  Embankment and
                                                                                                                                                                    Gates Program
                                                                                                                                                                 (non-Bank financed)
                                                                                                                                                uli
                                                                                                                                              Wuli
                                                                                                                                              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                        Meiliang Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOVEMBER 2010
