                                                                                  49324



                                  PROJECT PAPER


Date: June 20, 2009                            Task Team Leader: Mingyuan Fan
Country: People's Republic of China            Sector ManagedDirector: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-
Project Name: Tai Basin Urban                  Vasquez
Environment Project                            Country Director: David Dollar
-933                                           Environmentalcaterzorv: A
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Responsible agency: JGngsu Tai Basin Project Management Office                        -
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




Current closing date: December 31, 2009
Revised closing date [if applicable]: June 30, 2010
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved          -
RVPapproved              X

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?     -Yes XNo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                               -Yes-No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?               -Yes    XNo

Revised project development objective/outcomes [If appZicabZe]
Not applicable.




Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If so, click here to
indicate which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR]




                    Source                         Local       Foreign           Total
Borrower                                           96.48         20.93          117.41
IBRD/IDA                                           0.37          60.93          61.30
Others
Total                                              96.85         81.86          178.71

1.       Introduction. This Project Paper seeks approval of EAP RegionalVice President
to introduce the following changes inthe China Tai Basin UrbanEnvironment Project
(the Project) (Loan No. 4748-CHA, Project ID P057933), and accompanying
amendments to the project's legal documents.

2.       The proposed changes are to: (a) utilize loan savings, arising from the deletion of
the Wuzhong subcomponent, to finance construction of a wastewater treatment plant of
25,000 m3/d capacity in the Huishan District of Wuxi Municipality, an increase of the
civil works disbursement percentage for category l(a) to 100%; and (b) reallocation of
$240,000 from the "Unallocated" disbursement category to finance the construction. This
project paper also proposes to extend the loan closing date by six months to June 30,
2010. This will be the first extension of the closing date for the loan.

3.       The Project development objective i s to improve the quality of life of the rapidly
increasing urban population and enhance economic competitiveness inWuxi and Suzhou,
key municipalities inthe Tai Basin and the Yangtze River Delta economic region, by
alleviating degradation of water resources and improving the quality of the urban
environment. The Project consists of 3 parts: (i) Wuxi Municipality including Wuli lake
sub-project, and wastewater treatment plants and networks; (ii)    Suzhou Municipality
incorporatingurban area canal network rehabilitation; and wastewater treatment plants
and networks; and (iii)    implementation management and sector development assistant.

4.      Background. The World Bank approved an IBRDloanfor US61millionfor the
Project on August 3,2004. The Loan became effective on December 20,2004. The
Project was declared effective on December 20, 2004. The information i s based on the
latest supervision mission conducted inNovember 2008.

5.      All the wastewater treatment plants and sewer networks have been completed, and
an overall capacity utilizationof about 70% has been achieved. The wastewater
subcomponent inthe Wuzhong District was deleted, and resulted in the loan saving of
about US$6 million. The completion of the urban canal rehabilitation i s likely to take a
month or two beyondthe current loan closing date, All other works will be completed by
the current loan closing date.

6.      Sector reforms implementedby the Wuxi and Suzhou Municipality i s
implementing the following institutional and financial reform model, and includes: (a)
adoption of a municipal-widewastewater tariff based on water supplied, with tariffs set
and collected by Finance Bureaus; (b) change in the mandate of the wastewater
companies to that of service providers who own assets, and operate and maintain
wastewater facilities for a service fee based on the quantity of wastewater treated; (c) use
of the balance of wastewater fee revenues to meet debt service obligations and finance
investments across the Municipality, not only in areas where the revenue originated.
Legal agreements require wastewater companies to: (a) operate as independent corporate
entities; (b) set, collect and retain wastewater fee revenues for use in districts from where
they were collected; (c) convert the wastewater fee to a commercial tariff; and (d)

produce revenues to achieve full cost recovery without subsidies from the government.
The Bank has requested urgent consultations with Jiangsu Province and the
Municipalities to: (a) discuss the developments and gain a better understanding of the
reform goals; (b) identify elements of the reforms that defeat the goal of sector
sustainability; and (c) agree and implement modifications that would assure sustainability
of wastewater services. The most recent ISR downgraded achievement of project
development objectives and implementationprogress 'moderately satisfactory' until these
issues are resolved.

7.      The task team has requested urgent action by the Province, Wuxi and Suzhou
Municipalities to remedy the default situation and achieve the sustainability objective,
either through compliance with the original covenants or through agreeing workable
alternatives satisfactory to the Bank. Jiangsu ProvincialGovernment, inconjunction with
the Municipalities, will prepare and submit a proposal to address all issues and reach
agreement with the Bank and take substantive implementation measures before loan
closure. Satisfactory resolution of the issues and implementation of the agreed actions are
expected to be completed before the loan closing date.

8.      ProposedChanges. The original component for Wuzhong District of Suzhou
Municipality was deleted because of changes to the master plan and the District's desire
to pursue private sector participation for construction of the wastewater facilities. The
deleted component had light effect on the project objective; however, it has been buildby
using other fund. The proposed works i s for HuishanDistrict where a 25,000 m3/d
wastewater treatment plant was constructed under the project, which i s already being
used at full capacity. The borrower will expend another 25,000 m3/d WWTP and benefit
by the expansion that will treat wastewater which otherwise would ultimately contribute
to pollution increase inthe Tai Lake. The proposal i s consistent with the project objective.
The original disbursement ratio for civil works and goods under the Category l(a) i s 57%.
Because the contract price for wastewater treatment plant of 25,000 m3/d capacity inthe
Huishan District i s about US$6.2 million and the loan amount allocated to finance the
contract i s US$6.05 million, it was agreed indiscussions between Jiangsu's and MOF's
representatives that the disbursement rate for Category l(a) should be increased to 100%.

9.      Safeguards. The proposed additional works at wastewater treatment plant in
Huishan District will carried out on the existing site and so no land acquisition i s
necessary. The project was assigned as a Category A project inproject preparation. The
proposed WWTP expansion component will not bring major negative environmental
impacts, as all construction i s within the existing site and the implementing agency has
had experiences inthe past 4-year implementation. It i s expected that when the
construction complete, water quality should be improved with larger treatment capacity.
The EIA document prepared for the proposed WWTP expansion component was
prepared by a local EA institute. The Bank supervision team conducted review and
discussion with the client and EA consultant during supervision mission and afterwards.
The EIA document has been revised and updated accordingly. The final draft EIA
document has been cleared by Jiangsu Provincial EPB. Inthe project implementation, the
EMP has been implemented satisfactorily. According to Bank's requirement, public

consultation was conducted from Sept to Dec 2008 at least two times, and an English
summary of the EIA report has been prepared and been disclosed locally inDec 2008 and
inbank's Info Shop. The EAPSafeguards Secretariat has provided safeguard clearance to
the loan saving component.

10.     Implementation. The additional works will be implementedby Huishan Water
Treatment Company Limited(HWTC), the company that implemented the original
construction of the wastewater treatment plant. The Project implementing agency has
gained experience inthe construction of the first plant, and the additional works will not
pose any implementationcapacity issues.

11.     Procurement. The new works hadbeen appraised by the task team; The bidding
document has been reviewedby the Bank. The bids have been received and the bid
evaluationreport was reviewedby the Bank, and a conditional no objection was given to
award the contract, pendingmanagement approval of the request and amendment of the
legal agreements. The same procurement and consultant guidelines will be applied to the
new works. No new procurement methodneeds to be added.

12.     Disbursement. The only proposed change on disbursement ratio for civil works
and goods under the Category l(a) i s from 57% to 100%. The 100% disbursement rate
would result inthe financing of taxes on cost of this project, which include : the Value-
added Tax (VAT) 17% for goods and sale tax 5.5% for civil works and installation. The
VAT is nationaltax. The sales tax is localtax. The level of local taxes is low and is the
same in other projects inJiangsu province.

13.     Financialmanagement. There will be no change inthe flow of funds
arrangements, which will be similar the arrangements made for the financing of the first
phase treatment plant inthe same District. The proposed work will not affect the
appraisal results of the original subcomponent for the District. The new situation i s that
the projected wastewater flows have changed due to the enhanced connection rate in the
economic development zone of Huishan.

14.     Analysis andExpectedOutcome. The constructionof the plant will reduce
wastewater pollution discharge of 25,000 m3/d which would otherwise end up in the Tai
Lake, and contribute to the protectionof the Tai Lake water quality.

15.     The proposed change will not exert any impact on the current implementationof
the Project. The completion of the original subcomponent for rehabilitation of urban
canals in Suzhou has suffered some delay, and i s likely to be completed about two
months after the current closing date. All other original works have, or will be completed
on schedule before the current loan closing date. The proposed new works would be
completed about the same time. Extension of the loan closing date by six months has
been proposed.

16.    Benefitsand Risks. The Huaishan District levies a wastewater tariff (RMB
Y3/m3) to polluting industries in the economic development zone; this tariff i s about

three times higher than the municipal-wide tariff of Y l.l/m3. Thus, sustainability of the
wastewater services i s assured, and the wastewater treatment proposed will improve
environmentalconditions inthe District and contribute to reduced pollution discharges to
the Tai Lake.

Attachment: Project Design Summary

                                     SCHEDULE 1

                         Withdrawal of the Proceedsof the Loan


1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed ineach Category:


                                     Amount of the Loan
                                           Allocated            % of Expenditures
              Category             (Expressedin Dollars)          to be Financed

 (1) Works      (including supply
 and install contracts) for:

          Part A.2(a) of the                15,505,000                 100%
         Project (implementedby
         HWTC)

          Parts A.2(b) and A.2(c)          18,870,000                   60%
          of the Project
          (implemented by
         XWTC)

          Parts B.2(a) and (b) of          18,320,000                  75%
         the Project
          (implementedby
          SQCC)

         Part B.2(c) of the                          0                   0
         Project (implementedby
         WAMC)

         Part B.l(a) of the                 1,880,000                  41%
         Project (implementedby
         SQCC)

         Part B.l(b) of the                 2,940,000                   69%
         Project (implementedby
         SQCC)

 (2) Goods for Part B.l(a) of the           1,000,000             100% of foreign
Project (implemented by SQCC)                                    expenditures,
                                                                  100% of local

                             Amount of the Loan
                                Allocated        % of Expenditures
            Category        (Exmessed inDollars)   to be Financed

                                                  expenditures (ex-
                                                  factory cost) and
                                                  75% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items procured
                                                  locally


(3) Consultants' services         1,520,000             100%

(4) Training                        50,000              100%

(5) Unallocated                    610,000

(6) Fee                            305,000

TOTAL                           61.000.000

