                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32652

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-51355 IDA-37800)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.7 MILLION (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                     SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                                   FOR

          THE SECOND PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                              June 20, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar (CSD)
                                  CSD 1 = US$ 0.016
                                   US$ 1 = CSD 63.32

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APML -      Administration for the Prevention of Money Laundering
BRA   -     Bank Restructuring Agency
BSA   -     Business Services Agency
DFID -      Department for International Development
ECA   -     Europe and Central Asia Region
ICR   -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA   -     International Development Association
MOEP -      Ministry of Economy and Privatization
MOF   -     Ministry of Finance
NBS   -     National Bank of Serbia
PA    -     Privatization Agency
PDPL -      Programmatic Development Policy Loan
PLC   -     Paris and London Club
PFSAC -     Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
PSD   -     Private Sector Development
RS    -     Republic of Serbia
SAM   -     Serbia and Montenegro
SDP   -     Supervisory Development Plan
SIDA -      Swedish International Development Association
SOE   -     Socially-Owned Enterprises
TA    -     Technical Assistance
TSS   -     Transitional Support Strategy
TSSU -      Transitional Support Strategy Update
EAR   -     European Agency for Reconstruction
USAID -     United States Agency for International Development
VB    -     Vojvodjanska Banka

                          Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director      Orsalia Kalntzopoulos
                        Sector Manager       Gerardo Corrochano
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Itzhak Goldberg and Michael Edwards

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
      SECOND PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P074868                                                  Project Name: PFSAC 2
Team Leader: Itzhak Goldberg                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PFSAC 2                                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-51355; IDA-37800
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (50%); General industry and trade sector (40%);
                            Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual savings (10%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Legal institutions for a market economy
                            (P); International financial architecture (S); Standards and financial
                            reporting (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/09/2003                                     Effective:                           06/26/2003
     Appraisal: 04/03/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/10/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SAM/GOVERNMENT OF SAM
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Orzalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Itzhak Goldberg (PSD) and                      Itzhak Goldberg (PSD) and Gerardo
                                Michael Edwards (FSD)                          Corrochano (FSD)
ICR Primary Author:             Alexandra Drees-Gross;
                                Alexander Pankov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC II) supported the Government of
Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) in the implementation of regulatory, institutional, and structural reforms
seeking to significantly accelerate private sector-led growth through: (i) improving the business
environment by means of comprehensive reform of enterprise entry, operation and exit; (ii) strengthening
the financial system by privatizing and/or liquidating a number of key remaining majority state-owned
banks and improving the regulatory environment under which banks and other financial intermediaries
operate; and (iii) privatizing and restructuring socially-owned enterprises that crowd out private sector
growth, hamper banking sector recovery, and incur significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs.

The objectives were clear and realistic and, most importantly, fit in fully with structural reform measures
outlined in the Government's medium-term Economic Recovery and Transition Program presented at the
June 2001 Donors Conference. The program is described in more detail in the conference report Breaking
With the Past: The Path to Stability and Growth issued in June 2001 by the World Bank (the Bank) and
prepared in colloaboration with the European Commission and other international donors. The program is
further detailed in the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for Serbia and Montenegro adopted in June
2001 and updated in July 2002 and February 2004.

The objectives represented a direct continuation of the structural reform and stabilization program that was
supported by the Bank under the first PFSAC which was approved in May 2002. The objectives
specifically reflected medium term priorities of the Government elaborated under PFSAC I. While the
objectives were in many respects highly ambitious and broad, particularly for the enterprise and bank
privatization components, they were appropriately tailored to the Government's capacity. The fact that the
donor community, led by the Bank, supplemented the reform program with over US$ 50 million in
technical assistance (TA) grants and loans made the PFSAC II goals more realistic and ultimately
achievable.

The reforms that were supported took place at a critical phase of the country's transition process and
represented crucial next steps to deepen the reforms. The operation was high risk, particularly considering
the political uncertainties surrounding SAM's future, but offered a potentially high reward ­ making a
determinant contribution to the recovery of the country's economy and its capacity to develop and
participate more fully in the international system. The operation's strategic relevance and attention to
institutional aspects ­ essentially established through the first PFSAC ­ were very high and well developed.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The development objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

Background and Context. Serbia began the transition to democracy and a market economy under very
difficult economic and social conditions. These conditions resulted from nearly four decades of inefficient
economic management and a decade of regional conflicts and international isolation that followed the
break-up of socialist Yugoslavia in 1991. Despite these formidable odds, since early 2001 the Serbian
authorities took impressive steps to address the legacy of the past. The Government has followed a
two-pronged approach combining stabilization measures with decisive steps in an agenda of structural


                                                      - 2 -

reforms. Notwithstanding remaining political risks, sound macroeconomic policies have generally been
successful in bringing down inflation, stabilizing the exchange rate, and in establishing macroeconomic
stability.

In parallel to stabilization efforts, the Serbian Government made significant, albeit incomplete, progress in
the implementation of structural reform measures outlined in the medium-term Economic Recovery and
Transition Program and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for SAM. More specifically, there has
been considerable progress in opening the economy, restructuring the banking sector, privatization of
socially-owned enterprises and adopting legislation in many areas aimed at harmonization with the
European Union.

The PFSAC II was designed to support structural reforms in banking and enterprise sectors, aiming to
foster private sector growth and job creation, facilitated by a healthier and more developed financial
system. The operation built on the impressive progress made under the first PFSAC by supporting the
continuation of a wide-ranging privatization and restructuring program for state- and socially-owned
enterprises and banks. Furthermore, the credit supported the Government's longer-term goal of creating a
modern regulatory and institutional framework for private and financial sector development.

Components. The policy reform conditionalities for the credit focused on the following four areas:

    Reform of Business Enabling Environment aimed to improve the regulatory and institutional
    framework for business entry through improving the registration system; to facilitate efficient
    operations of business through reforming Enterprise Law, building institutional capacity for regulatory
    reform, and improving enterprise access to finance; and reducing barriers to the efficient exit and
    redeployment of non-productive assets.

    Reform of Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework sought to create a modern
    regime for financial sector operations through strengthening the supervision and regulation of the
    banking and insurance sectors, laying the foundation for the future implementation of a sustainable
    deposit insurance scheme, and creating adequate mechanisms to prevent money laundering activities.

    Banking Sector Reform sought to deepen and broaden the scope of financial intermediation through
    selling controlling stakes in most privatizable banks to reputable strategic investors, and liquidating all
    other majority state-owned banks.

    Enterprise Sector Reform sought to promote economic growth by putting the country's industrial
    assets to more productive use through divestiture of the vast and under-performing socially-owned
    enterprise sector to foreign and local investors using internationally accepted sales techniques.

The project was designed as a two tranche operation, with the expectation that disbursement of the second
tranche would take place approximately nine to 12 months after the first. The two tranche design was
expected to allow the Bank to provide support in a timely manner, while at the same time, provide
flexibility on the timetable for meeting the conditions for release of the second tranche.

The design of both components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The four project
components reflected the highest priority sectoral issues agreed upon by the Bank and the Government and
were fully consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy Update (TSSU) for SAM. The program
was part of the ongoing Bank program with the authorities of Serbia to support enterprise sector reforms
that foster private sector growth and job creation, facilitated by a healthier and more developed financial


                                                      - 3 -

system.

The project drew heavily on the lessons and experience provided by the PFSAC I, which was rated rated
"highly satisfactory" by OED for its overall outcome and achievement of its objectives. The successful
implementation of policy objectives under PFSAC I provided a platform for the design of PFSAC II. The
specific components and reform measures sought under PFSAC II were a direct continuation of the reform
program begun under the first operation.

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not revised during implementation.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated as highly satisfactory based on the (i) technical competence and incorporation of
best practices in the private and financial sector development into the project; (ii) the strategic significance
of the program and consistency with overall country priorities; and (iii) the tight focus and coherence of the
program.

The QAG quality at entry review also rated the project as highly satisfactory. The project was considered
outstanding for building directly on the progress of first PFSAC, pursuing the same objectives to further
closure and taking advantage of the institutional foundation laid by PFSAC I. According to the QAG panel,
the operation's strategic relevance was also beyond question. The Bank financing was substantial yet fit
into a much larger package of financial adjustment support from the IMF and other institutions. The
approach and design of the operation were conceptually sound and rooted in the lessons of experience with
similar issues in transition economies. The QAG panel asserted that although the operation was high risk,
particularly considering the political uncertainties surrounding SAM's future, it offered a potentially high
reward ­ the potential to make a significant contribution to the recovery of the SAM economy and its
sustainable capacity to develop and participate more fully in the international system.

In addition, QAG found that the project document was considered a model for its clarity, analysis, logical
structure, and presentation of the right balance between macroeconomic and sector specific aspects. In
hindsight, the QAG team concluded that the preparation may have included additional discussions of risk
mitigating factors given the difficult political climate in SAM--although the actual components may not
have changed as a result.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the objectives and outputs in considered satisfactory. The PFSAC II largely achieved
its main objective of supporting structural reforms in the private and enterprise sectors, and thereby
fostering private sector-led growth and job creation. The operation contributed significantly to the country's
overall economic stabilization program, by helping to establish an improved business environment, a better
developed financial regulatory and supervisory system, and reduce state-ownership of the enterprise and
banking sector. Despite a number of high risks, the assassination of the Prime Minister, and a full change
in government midway through the project, PFSAC II assisted the Government in delivering solid and
ambitious set of reforms.


                                                       - 4 -

These reforms represent a substantial achievement: the completion of the second phase of reforms in the
key sectors served to lay the foundation for a market-based economy. The reforms have had immediate
impact by providing a fiscal stimulus to the economy through privatizations of large state-owned
enterprises, reducing the state's contingent liabilities, and strengthening the legal framework for private
sector development through changes to the enterprise law, bankruptcy regime, and business registration
system. In turn, these measures are considered to be highly likely to be sustainable, given a continued
government commitment toward creating a market-based economy.

Main achievements. Following are the selected main achievements of the PFSAC II:

   l Transfer from public to private hands the ownership and management of over 1,000 medium
        companies. Since 70 percent of each company was sold, in contrast to mass privatization, the
        management has had to move to the new owner.
   l FDI via Privatization: circa 50 large companies have been sold (70 percent stake) to strategic
        owners, mostly international, some with Bank assistance and other with the Government's own
        resources or other donors' help.
   l Entry of new companies has been streamlined through changes in the Law on Registration, which
        removed registration to a new business-friendly one-stop-shop agency, which will also house
        collateral and leasing registration. The number of SMEs went up in 2001-2003 by 6,000 and their
        employment by 59,000. The number of shops went up by 30,000 and their workers by 62,000.
        Together they employ in 2003 more than one million persons, around half of total labor force of
        2,050,000.
   l Leasing has become a popular and important financial instrument to finance investment.
   l Launched the privatization process for state-owned banks. Jubanka sold and bids submitted for
        Continental and Novasadska.
   l Strengthened the institutional capabilities of the NBS from a relatively poor position to fulfill its
        responsibilities as regulator and supervisor.
   l Improved the BRA's abilities to maintain financial performance and governance of state-owned
        banks.
   l The legal framework around the insurance sector has been significantly strengthened.


A summary of the progress with respect to the outcome benchmarks is also included as a table in Section
10 below.

The project's achievements are linked to several factors. First, the project built upon the experience of the
PFSAC and profited from the related package of technical assistance support that accompanied the credit.
This package included the Private Sector Development Technical Assistance and Financial Sector
Development Technical Assistance (PSD TA and FSD TA) Grants, the Privatization and Restructuring of
Banks and Enterprises Project, and a Japanese PHRD Grant, all of which were ongoing at the time of
project preparation.

Because the project preparation team had been working so close with the authorities through those
operations, there was an exceptional amount of continuity to the program, and the team had an excellent
understanding of the specific institutional development needs of the related institutions. Second, the project
placed a heavy emphasis on working closely with other donors to leverage maximum support for the given
reforms. As a result of this effort, the Bank was effective in channeling resources into the critical areas.
Third, the Bank team emphasized the provision of advice based on the most cutting edge international best
practices, particularly related to privatization and enterprise reform.


                                                       - 5 -

Tranche disbursement. The reforms took longer to achieve than anticipated and resulted in a delay of four
months in disbursing the second tranche of the loan. The implementation was delayed in latter 2003
through early 2004 primarily due to increased political uncertainty in the period preceding and immediately
following presidential and parliamentary elections held in Serbia. Following its taking office in March
2004, the new government reaffirmed its commitment to the PFSAC II program objectives and made a
considerable effort to complete the implementation of the program before the closing date of December 31,
2004.

Notwithstanding the above-mentioned delay, the two tranche nature of the operation was a key element of
the project's success. In particular, the reform program ran the risk of backsliding during the period of
political instability after, and the second tranche release offered an incentive to continue with the reform
program. In contrast to the first PFSAC which was a one tranche operation, the two tranches gave provided
added flexibility which proved necessary in the second phase of a complex reform operation. Specifically,
the second tranche provided an incentive for the Government to continue its reform program, even in the
difficult period after the assassination of the prime minister and subsequent change of government. The
tranche release conditions were very specific and closely monitored by the Bank, both on an ongoing basis
with its field based staff and during frequent supervision missions.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Following are the major achievements by component.

A. Reform of Business Enabling Environment

This component is rated as satisfactory. With the support of PFSAC II, the Government took important
steps to improve the enabling environment for business through the enactment of new legislation on
business registration, enterprises, and bankruptcy. These activities laid the groundwork for a more vibrant
enterprise sector by reducing barriers to entry, operations, and exit of firms.

Streamlining business registration and business services. In line with the PFSAC II conditionalities, the
Serbian Parliament took a major step when it adopted in May 2004 a new business registration system that,
once fully operational in late 2005, will be one of the most modern and streamlined in Europe. The new
legislation aims to: (i) create a unified Serbian business register that includes all business activities covered
under the current Enterprise Law and Law on Private Entrepreneurs; (ii) administer the new unified
registry through an independent administrative agency; (iii) allow businesses to start activities immediately
after registration; (iv) streamline data requirements for each class of business according to European Union
benchmarks; (v) expand electronic registration and updating, and ensure easy electronic accessibility to the
database; and, (vi) create a single unique identifying number for each enterprise that would serve all
government needs. The newly established Business Services Agency (BSA) is in charge of administering
the business registry. While, according to Bank's Doing Business database, the initial reforms reduced the
average time needed for company registration from 70 to 40 days, the new system has further reduced this
time to 18-20 days. Therefore, there has been significant progress regarding the outcome benchmark to
"decrease in number of procedures and average time spent during each procedure."

Strengthening enterprise law. The new enterprise law was enacted by the Serbian Parliament in November
2004. The new law is not only closer to the company laws of market economies, but also easier to use in
business planning and in avoiding or settling disputes. It also contains a number of provisions designed to



                                                       - 6 -

meet the requirements of EU Company Law Directives. This will, in turn, improve the business
environment for enterprises and help to attract investment. Support for adoption of the new enterprise law
has also been further supported under the SAC II operation. The most important improvements in the new
law can be summarized as follows:

   l The limited liability company provisions of the law are more flexible. The minimum capital
         requirement has been reduced from 5,000 to 500 Euros per member and there is no longer a
         requirement of capital maintenance.
   l The law introduces two types of joint stock companies, namely closed and open. It also has
         detailed provisions for merger, division, and conversion of a company from one form to another
         and imposes new disclosure requirements on companies and persons who control a company .
   l The law encourages good corporate governance. The law expands and clarifies a director's legal
         duty of care and duty of loyalty to the company, introduces the concept of "personal interest",
         simplifies the structure of the board, makes the establishment of a supervisory board optional and
         provides for directors to be elected only by the shareholders and to have only one-year terms.

Improving the bankruptcy regime. The new Bankruptcy Law, adopted with support of the credit, also
represents a major step toward establishing a more robust legal framework for the private sector. The
Government enacted the new law on July 24, 2004, however, due in part to the government change, the
adoption of the law has been delayed by almost a year. The law was prepared with support of the PSD TA
Grant, in line with PFSAC II conditionalities. The provisions of the new law are fully consistent with EU
practices and have been designed to minimize the impact of existing institutional deficiencies in the
judiciary and the trustee community. In particular, the new law contains specific provisions designed to
expedite the opening of bankruptcy proceedings, as well as a comprehensive section on reorganization of
viable debtors.

Under the new law, the Bankruptcy Supervisory Agency was established under the auspices of the Ministry
of Economy and Privatization (MOEP) to license, supervise, and regulate bankruptcy trustees. The MOEP,
with United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Bank support, has developed a
general trustee training course and a program to educate the judges on the concepts contained in the new
law. Bylaws for the bankruptcy trustee profession also established a national standards for the profession,
ethics guidelines, and an certification exam and requirements. The law also established a specialized
Bankruptcy Unit at the Privatization Agency (PA) to act as the bankruptcy trustee for socially- or
state-owned enterprises. In spite of the political reticence about bankruptcy, common in all post-socialist
economies, the Government is now progressing on building the above-mentioned institutions and has
recently announced the first three bankruptcy cases. However, the delays in the implementation of the
bankruptcy regime have been significant and an operating bankruptcy regime, with an operational
institutional capacity, is not yet in place.

B. Reform of Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework

This component is rated as satisfactory. The PFSAC contributed substantially to the authorities' efforts to
establish a modern framework for financial sector regulation and supervision. This included strengthening
the supervision and regulation of the banking sector, laying out the foundation for implementation of a
sustainable deposit insurance scheme, and creating adequate mechanisms to prevent money laundering
activities.

Strengthening banking supervision. In particular, the credit supported the design and implementation of the
multi-year Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) which supported the overall development and


                                                       - 7 -

strengthening of banking supervision. With the exception of one of the nine agreed `measures', the National
Bank of Serbia (NBS) achieved satisfactorily progress with respect to the following measures: (1)
approval and communication to staff of a supervisory operating procedure; (2) approval of lines of
delegated responsibility; (3) the NBS requirement that banks' boards receive, review, respond to, and sign
reports of examination; (5) communication with bank boards and management; (6) approval of an
examination manual; (7) adoption of bank rating system; (8) plans for a documentary database; and (9) the
negotiation of two MOUs with foreign supervisory authorities. The most far reaching of the nine agreed
SDP measures (number 4) requires that NBS' bank supervision conduct risk targeted supervisory activities
in the highest risk institutions, as established in the NBS Supervisory Review Committee examination
schedule. The NBS recently submitted a more robust analysis and support for its planned supervisory
activities, which better correlates the banks to their identified risks. The Bank accepted the NBS's revised
plan to rate and examine banks' according to risk, however, the revisions were put in place too late to gauge
their effectiveness.

It is important to recognize that while the vast majority of these agree measures were met, the SDP
effectiveness has suffered due to the difficulties faced by the NBS in attracting and retaining qualified staff
in its supervision department. Ongoing dialogue in the context of the proposed Programmatic Development
Policy Loan (PDPL) for SAM is refocusing on this issue and taking a more critical view of institutional
and human resources capacity building.

Improving the anti-money laundering regime. As part of the reform program, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) has supported the development of a new anti-money laundering regime and the establishment of a
fully resourced Financial Intelligence Unit, the Administration for the Prevention of Money Laundering
(APML). This agency serves as the repository of information from banks, insurance companies and others
regarding large cash and suspicious transactions. The APML in turn provides information to the
appropriate Serbian and overseas authorities to assist in the prevention and detection of money laundering
and terrorist financing activities. The APML was recently evaluated and accepted for membership by the
Egmont Group, an international coalition dedicated to fostering the development of financial intelligence
units and the exchange of information.

Modernizing the legal and institutional framework for the insurance sector. As part of its efforts to
broaden the financial services available, the Government enacted a new law on insurance. The new law
became effective May 29, 2004. Major reforms include substantially increased sustained minimum capital
requirements, restrictions on reinsurance options for local direct insurers, strong controls over
intermediaries, and a requirement that life and non-life operations have separate licenses. Under the new
insurance law, supervision of insurers has been transferred to the National Bank of Serbia (NBS) whilst
regulation remains with the MOF. While efforts to date have focused on establishing appropriate by-laws,
the supervisory capacity is still being strengthened and TA is being provided by the Bank in the context of
the proposed PDPL.

Introduction of International Accounting Standards for banks. With support of the credit, IAS (now
"IFRS") for banks are required as of end-2003 and for insurance companies are required as of end-2004.
The NBS is also realigning banks' chart of accounts to reflect new IAS reporting requirements.

C. Banking Sector Reform

This component is rated as satisfactory. This component helped to deepen and broaden the scope of
financial intermediation through selling controlling stakes in majority state-owned banks. As a result of the
bank privatizations and liquidations of insolvent banks supported by PFSAC II, as of February 2005,


                                                        - 8 -

foreign banks now control for the first time about 50 percent of total banking assets. This reflects growing
confidence in the banking system overall, and the collaborative efforts of the NBS and the Government to
encourage mergers and the sale of small, less well capitalized banks.

Under PFSAC II guidance, the Bank Restructuring Agency (BRA), as agent for the Government, also
engaged a reputable investment bank to act as its financial advisor to privatize three majority state-owned
banks: JuBanka, Continental and Novosadska banks. JuBanka was offered for sale through open tender in
May 2004 and sold to a strategic investor in January 2005. The Government is also currently collecting
bids for Continental and Novosadska banks. The BRA appointed a privatization advisor for the sale of
Niska Banka and the bank was offered for sale in January 2005.

The Government also placed a restructuring advisor on-site and replaced the management team at
Vojvodjanska Banka (VB) as part of its on-going efforts to strengthen governance and controls at this
systemically important bank. Then, after extensive consultations, the BRA Council, led by the Minister of
Finance, Minister of Economy and Privatization and NBS Governor, formally adopted the VB restructuring
plan in April 2004. The bank has since met or exceeded the agreed restructuring targets. The Government
is committed to the sale of VB, as the tender for the selection of a privatization advisor was launched in
October 2004. A majority stake is to be offered for sale to a strategic investor via international tender in
mid-2005. It is envisaged the bank's sale will be concluded prior to end-2005.

D. Enterprise Sector Reform

This component is rated as satisfactory. The component significantly contributed to economic growth by
putting the country's industrial assets to more productive use through divestiture of the vast and
under-performing socially-owned enterprise sector to foreign and local investors using internationally
accepted sales techniques. In addition, the Government exceeded targets set forth for this component under
the PFSAC II, and substantially strengthened the Privatization Agency during the project timeframe.

Tender privatization. Despite a difficult political environment, with support of the credit, the Privatization
Agency made good progress in the tender privatization of the remaining socially-owned enterprises (SOEs).
Using technical assistance provided by the Bank and bilateral donors, the agency engaged expert
privatization advisors for 54 SOEs by the start of the project. The enterprises were organized into twelve
pools for privatization. By October 1, 2004, 23 enterprises had been successfully sold--exceeding the
relevant PFSAC II condition. Tenders were still ongoing or planned for 14 more enterprises. Eleven
enterprises are now undergoing restructuring prior to being offered for sale, and six more SOEs have been
moved to auctions.

Auction privatization. The Privatization Agency maintained the momentum in the auction privatization
process as well and surpassed the targets envisioned in PFSAC II conditionality by the end of December
2003. Specifically, 595 enterprises were put for sale in auction between April 1 and December 31, 2003,
and 463 of them were successfully sold. In 2004 the auction process slowed somewhat from the rapid pace
of 2003, due largely to the declining number and quality of the companies available for auction. In 2004,
372 companies were offered or expected to be offered for sale, with 227 of them sold or expected to be
sold.

Restructuring and privatization of large SOEs. Using the technical assistance funding provided by the
Bank and other donors, the Privatization Agency engaged teams of international and local advisors to lead
the preparation and implementation of privatization through restructuring programs for about 30
companies. In particular, using the PSD TA grant, the agency engaged financial advisors to work on 12


                                                     - 9 -

large SOEs in its portfolio. After initial delays due to the difficult Serbian legal and creditor environment,
the agency adopted a strategy putting more emphasis on conditional sales (subject to debt restructuring
after a conditional bid offer) and sales of assets and subsidiaries. As a result of this approach, a number of
companies and/or parts thereof have been offered for tender or auction since the start of 2004, including
three SOEs financed by the PSD TA grant.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact is rated as substantial. PFSAC II in combination with the accompanying
PSD TA project, FSD TA project, Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises TA Credit,
and PHRD Grant, helped to create and strengthen a number of agencies that play important roles in the
supervision and regulation of the enterprise and financial sectors.

In particular, the operation benefited the National Bank of Serbia (by strengthening is banking supervision
functions), the Anti-Money Laundering Agency (which was established under the new law); the Bank
Rehabilitation Agency, the Privatization Agency, the Agency for Licensing of Bankruptcy Trustees, and the
SOE Bankruptcy Unit of the Privatization Agency. The project also supported the establishment of the
Serbian Business Registration Agency, which is expected to play an important role in facilitating business
entry in the future.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two main factors affected the implementation of key structural reforms, as well as overall economic
activity in Serbia:

(i) Assassination of the Prime Minister and the subsequent change in government. A major factor
affecting implementation of the project was the assassination of the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in
March 2003. This event sharply disrupted the reform program, leading to a full government turnover late
that year including an entirely new cabinet. The change also led to a prolonged period of inactivity in
several areas, delaying for example the passage of important new legislation such as the Enterprise Law,
Bankruptcy Law, Insurance Law and the Law on Business Registration, as well as the bank privatization
program.

(ii) Political instability. The implementation of the reform program supported by the PFSAC II was also
delayed in later 2003 and early 2004 due to increased political uncertainty around the presidential and
parliamentary elections. While the new government got back on track in a relatively short period of time
following election, the highly charged political atmosphere made it more difficult to carry out tough
reforms. The fact that the new government was not as familiar with and invested in the PFSAC II program
to the same degree also made implementation more difficult.



                                                      - 10 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment. The government that negotiated PFSAC II was highly committed to continuing
the reform program and building upon the achievements launched under PFSAC. As mentioned above,
however, the turnover in the government following the prime minister's assassination delayed project
implementation slightly beyond the original date estimate for second tranche disbursement. This delay,
however, ultimately did not derail the program. Rather, after taking office, the new government reaffirmed
its commitment to the PFSAC II program objectives and completed the implementation of the program
before the original closing date of December 31, 2004.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing arrangements for this project have proven very successful. The MOE and the
Privatization Agency were responsible for the private sector development reforms, the NBS and the BRA
were in charge of financial sector reforms. At the same time, the MOF coordinated the program and had a
very limited role. In many respects the staffs of these institutions were instrumental in continuing to move
the reforms forward at a time when the government was in political crisis. For example, according to a
December 2003 supervision mission, even during the period of political turmoil, the Privatization Agency
moved forward to fulfill two core conditions, offering for sale a number of state-owned enterprises in
restructuring and auction programs and the core condition on divestiture of large SOEs in the tender
privatization program.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The credit was for SDR 58.7 million (US$80 million equivalent). The credit was disbursed in two equal
tranches of SDR 29,350,000. There were no changes to the financing.

The second tranche, which was originally planned to disburse around June 2004, was disbursed four
months later on October 29, 2004. The primary reason for this delay is the change of government in
February 2004 (discussed above in sections 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3). However, the delay was within the original
forecasts and thus, no project extension was required. The project closed as planned in December 2004.

In particular, the new authorities needed some additional time to advance a number of core conditions, such
as prepare the offering the first three banks for sale, appoint the advisor for Niska bank's sale and adopt the
restructuring plan for Vojvodjanska Bank.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The reforms brought about by the successful completion of PFSAC II have had a major impact on the
overall strength of the financial and enterprise sectors. In the financial sector, the improvements to the legal
and regulatory framework--including the strengthening of banking supervision, anti-money laundering
reforms, and the modernization of the insurance sector legal framework--have created the building blocks
for a sound and stable financial system. Bank privatizations have also increased the soundness of the



                                                      - 11 -

banking system by moving assets into private ownership, thereby helping to eliminate the distortions in
lending practices. At the same time, enterprise sector reforms supported by the PFSAC II have helped to
accelerate the government's program to begin to privatize and restructure the largest and most complex
state-owned enterprises. PFSAC II provided guidance and support for both tender and auction
privatizations based on international best practices. The results have significantly reduced state-ownership
of the enterprise sectors and provided an important fiscal stimulus by reducing government transfers.

The fact that PFSAC II tackled issues related to both sectors at the same time helped to solve some of the
most difficult problems the Government faced in implementing its structural reform program. The
interconnectedness of the banking and financial systems with the enterprise sector had been a major factor
to plague the transition process in the country to date.

In total, the policy measures supported by PFSAC reforms have significantly advanced the Government's
structural reform agenda. The measures are expected to lead to a more vibrant private sector, and lay the
foundation for long term growth and job creation. Given the level of government commitment required to
carry them out and the irreversible nature of the privatization of banks and enterprises, the outcome is
likely to be sustainable.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

While no special arrangements for transition to regular operations is necessary given that this was a
structural adjustment operation, the institutions that have carried out the reforms (such as the BRA, the
Privatization Agency, the Deposit Insurance Agency, etc) have integrated the reform strategies supported
by the PFSAC II into their ongoing activities. Capacity of these agencies has also been supported heavily
through the PSD TA and FSD TA and related grants of other donors including DFID, USAID, and SIDA.

The Bank is continuing to support structural adjustment of the enterprise and banking sectors through the
Programmatic Development Policy Loan which is currently under preparation and is expected to go to
Board in FY06. The operation is specifically designed to sustain the momentum for reform in the enterprise
and banking sectors that was launched under the first two PFSAC operations. As such, the proposed
operation supports: (i) continued progress on restructuring and privatization of real and financial sector
assets; (ii) restructuring and resolution of large loss-making state- and socially-owned enterprises; (iii)
improved access to finance, particularly for the small and medium enterprise (SME) sector; (iv) energy
sector restructuring; and (v) private participation in infrastructure, in particular strengthening the legal and
institutional framework of the mining sector, which has a potential to contribute to significant foreign direct
investments in Serbia.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in project identification and preparation was highly satisfactory. The PFSAC II
provided guidance and support to the Government at a crucial stage in the reform process. The reforms
carried out under the operation were essential to the goals of the Government as articulated in the
Transitional Support Strategy.




                                                      - 12 -

As confirmed by QAG through the quality-at-entry review, the operation was exceptional for its strategic
relevance and overall technical coherence. PFSAC II was a key element of the Bank and IMF financing to
SAM and directly supported the structural reform measures outlined in the medium-term Economic
Recovery and Transition Program.

Bank performance was excellent in that preparation in severel respects. First, preparation was extremely
timely and swift, allowing for an almost a seamless transition from the first PFSAC operation. Second, the
project built directly on the successes of the first PFSAC operation--pursuing deeper reforms in the same
key areas. Third, the PFSAC II conditionalities were at the center of an very robust and broad based policy
dialogue with the Government. The policy dialogue also included a large package of technical assistance
that helped the Government move forward to implement some of the most difficult reforms.

The project design was also exemplary in that the conditionalities were highly specific, ambitious, but
achievable. Based on the relationship that the Bank team had built with the government counterparts at the
agency level, the Bank was able to create a set of conditionalities that were very timely and incorporated
the latest legislative developments. The various privatization methods supported were based on a close
analysis of international best practices and were well tailored to the Serbian context.


7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during supervision is rated as highly satisfactory. The project team was faced with the
challenge of how to help sustain the momentum for reform even during a period of intense political crisis.
During this period, the team continued to supervise the program closely with frequent missions and
discussions not only with the highest level of government (including MOFE, the MOEP, the NBS), but also
with the technical staff of the related agencies.

In addition, the Bank maintained a core team of staff in the field to supervise the project, conduct
monitoring, and provide substantial technical inputs on an ongoing basis. This was a highly effective
strategy that allowed the Bank to tightly monitor conditionalities and as well as coordinate technical
assistance with other donors.

Both the MOE and the Bank's supervision team made extraordinary efforts during the critical six months
between January and July 2004 to continue to work with the newly appointed management of the PA,
which had adopted an opposing view of privatization. Only due to the efforts of the MOE staff and the
Bank team, the program did not become completely derailed. The draft Law on Enterprises at that time also
was prepared and made available to the public for commentary, in spite of pressures from opposition
groups within and outside the government. The participatory process of preparing the Company Law and
the dedication of the consultants of the MOE also deserve special commendation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. The Government demonstrated



                                                      - 13 -

an exceptional level of commitment to its overall reform program. It demonstrated this through broad and
active participation of the various agencies in preparation of the PFSAC II. Key counterparts were the
MOF, MOEP, NBS, BRA, and PA.

During preparation, there was a also high degree of cooperation between the Bank and government
counterparts in identifying the specific conditionalities to be supported under the loan. In particular, the
same agencies and staff members who carried out the policy reforms under the first PFSAC brought to bear
their knowledge and experience in planning the second operation. This experience proved extremely
valuable, as the individuals were familiar not only with the overall goals and priorities, but also the
methodologies and approaches that would be key to implementation success in the various sectors.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Borrower implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. As explained above, Serbia faced enormous
political upheaval in 2003 and 2004 that sharply disrupted the reform program and affected the country's
overall economic situation. During this time, progress toward meeting PFSAC II conditionality slowed
substantially. However, the new government, which took office in March 2004, reaffirmed ownership
within a reasonable period of time and pushed ahead with the PFSAC II reform agenda in order to meet the
conditionalities by end-October of that year.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Implementing agency performance is considered satisfactory. Although there was no single implementing
agency, implementation of the conditionalities required active participation of a number of institutions as
described above. The cooperation of staff from these agencies in carrying out the reform programs was a
key element of the project success. In particular, the highly professional and efficient work of the PA and
BRA staff and consultant ensured timely implementation of technically complex conditions on resolution of
SOEs and banks, respectively. It is important to note here that these two key institutions benefited
extensively from the TA provided by the Bank through PSD TA grant, FSD TA grants, and Privatization
and Restructuring TA Credit, as well as support provided by EAR, DFID, USAID, and other donors.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l Importance of specific drawing lessons on privatization from other transition economies.The team
    paid special attention to drawing the right lessons from past experience with bank restructuring and
    parastatal reform in transition economies. In particular, it recognized the need for a clean and
    transparent privatization process and for tailoring the reform design to the specific features and
    economic culture of the country produced a hard-hitting and results-focused yet realistic reform
    program.

    The modalities of learning from others are not straightforward: in the design stage, PFSAC II benefited
    from studies such as Ten Years of Transition by Mitra and Selowsky and OED's Economies in
    Transition (May 2004) as well as from direct experiences of staff and consultants from countries such
    as Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Croatia. In the implementation stage, the importance of practical


                                                     - 14 -

    experience from other Eastern European countries is even more critical: the PFSAC applied this lesson
    by employing consultants who had direct experience in relevant transition economies. The supervision
    team utilized consultants who were former development officials in Eastern Europe, and thus knew the
    political economy of transition. The role of such consultants is different from the role of local
    consultants; while the latter know the local conditions better, they do not know the lessons from other
    experiences and are also subject to pressures in their own community.

l Need for timely and substantial technical assistance. One of the main reasons that the PFSAC II was
    able to achieve its ambitious agenda was that it lined up a large amount of TA to support the
    Government in implementing its program. This included both Bank and donor financing. The TA made
    possible not only the privatizations specified under the conditionalities and the drafting of new laws,
    but also the critical institution building that is required to implement the changes and sustain the
    program in the long run.

l Importance of donor coordination. The large number of donors that are active in the Serbia presents
    both opportunities and challenges for the authorities, who often have to coordinate with a large number
    of partners. In order to avoid duplication and also leverage support for the reforms outlined under
    PFSAC II, the project team maintained a robust dialogue with many of the other donors including
    SIDA, DFID, EAR, and USAID and had significant input into their TA programs. This led to well
    targeted and coordinated assistance that directly supported the fulfillment of conditionality and the
    related institution building.

l Effectiveness of a PSD/FSD umbrella operation. Experience has shown that an integrated approach is
    necessary to carry out reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors. In Serbia, the interconnectedness
    of these two sectors was significant -- with the large banks having claims on the enterprise sector and
    making it difficult for the authorities to restructure or privatize the enterprises. The PFSAC II
    specifically took this interconnectedness into account by tackling complex problems in both sectors at
    the same time.

l Establishing a legal framework is not enough: institutional capacity and enforcement are necessary.
    An effective legal and regulatory framework requires not only legislative reform, but also adequate
    implementation capacity. Since 2002, the Government has carried out many important legislative
    changes to strengthen the banking sector regulatory and supervisory framework and improve the
    business environment (such as facilitating business registration, deregulating foreign trade and
    investment, simplifying the tax regime, modernizing labor legislation). However, these measures proved
    insufficient without the institutional capacity for implementation and enforcement of the laws.
    Therefore, it is important that adjustment operations be paired with adequate TA to build local
    institutional capacity.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Following are comments received on the PFSAC II ICR from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Economy and National Bank of Serbia. In addition, the Government provided a number of comments and
corrections that were incorporated into the text.




                                                        - 15 -

                                 Comments from the Ministry of Finance,
                                             dated June 10, 2005

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Implementation Completion Report for the PFSAC.

We believe that PFSAC 2 addressed the key challenges of Serbia's structural reform agenda in bank and
enterprise sector including the privatization of state owned banks, continuation of a multi-track
privatization program and further improvement of the regulatory framework for banking and enterprise
sector and fully support the conclusions of the ICR about PFSAC II's key contribution to the completion of
the second phase of reforms of the Serbian private and financial sector.

The reforms supported under the PFSAC 2 have had substantial fiscal impact through privatizations of
large socially-owned enterprises and state-owned banks and strengthening the legal framework for private
sector development through changes to the enterprise law, bankruptcy regime, and business registration
system.

PFSAC 2 provided a critical support to the continuation of the government's financial sector reform
agenda. Improvement made in the banking sector with support from the PFSAC 2 was extraordinary.
PFSAC 2 supported the launch of the privatization process for state-owned banks (one bank was sold and
bids were submitted for additional two) with inflow from first bank privatization (JuBanka) in excess of
EUR 100 million. Upcoming enterprise and bank privatizations are expected to produce further significant
revenues for the budget.

Through the PFSAC 2 the Government took important steps to improve the enabling environment for
business through the enactment of new legislation on business registration, enterprises, and bankruptcy.
These activities laid the groundwork for a more vibrant enterprise sector by reducing barriers to entry,
operations, and exit of firms. As a result there has been significant progress regarding several outcomes
including the decrease in number of procedures and average time spent during each procedure and in the
minimum capital requirement. In addition, the Government is now progressing on building the bankruptcy
related institutions and has recently announced the first bankruptcy cases under the new framework.

Finally we would like to add that he Bank timely deployed substantial resources through a technical
assistance grant that helped the successful implementation of major components of the reform program
supported by the PFSAC 2. This has made possible not only the privatizations specified under the
conditionalities and the drafting of new laws, but also the critical institution building in number of areas
(bankruptcy, business registration, bank supervision) that is required to implement the changes and sustain
the program in the long run.

                      Comments from the Ministry of Economy, dated June 10, 2005
                                       Deputy Minister Zora Simovic

We fully agree with the conclusions of this report about PFSAC II's key role in supporting the GoS's
ambitious program of regulatory, institutional, and structural reforms seeking to significantly accelerate
private sector-led growth. In particular, with continuous support from the World Bank both at the policy
and technical level, this Ministry has made substantial progress in the two essential areas of transition
reforms -- SOE privatization and business reform.

From the beginning of 2002 until the end of December 2004, the PA, guided by the MOE, managed to
privatize 1,138 companies, generating more than US$1.5 billion of revenue for the budget, almost US$1


                                                    - 16 -

billion of new investment commitments and around US$400 million for social programs. From this number,
42 large SOEs have been sold through tender procedure, and some 1,050 through auction. The work on
resolution of large, deeply insolvent industrial conglomerates has also begun, although the progress is slow
due to imperfect legal environment and objectively difficult condition of this group of SOEs. On all tracks
of privatization, targets set in PFSAC II program conditionality has been overachieved.

At the same time, the project component related to the business enabling reforms laid the basis for
sustainable private sector growth. The PFSAC II and accompanying grant provided by SIDA and managed
by the World Bank brought major decrease in number of procedures and average time spent to register a
business. In addition, the new Company law is providing more flexible and effective legal forms for
enterprises. The new Bankruptcy Law , adopted with support of the credit, also represents a major step
toward establishing a more robust legal framework for the private sector. Finally, the operation helped the
creation of the robust and efficient regulatory regime for leasing operations, that led to tremendous increase
in the volume of outstanding leases.

Having the European integration as its ultimate goal, the GOS is committed to continuing and deepening
the reform agenda initiated under the Project, and, in broader terms, under new program. In the context of
PDPL program, we are currently working closely with the World Bank on a number of reform measures
aiming at further divestiture of socially- and state-owned assets, strengthening the fiscal discipline and
improving business environment.

                                  Comments of the National Bank of Serbia

               Item B: Reform of Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework

Banking Supervision Department, although reform of financial sector regulatory and supervisory
framework was assessed by World Bank methodology as satisfactory, would like to emphasize that Second
Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC 2) Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
gives real and fair assessment in regard to level of reforms achieved in supervision of banks in Serbia.

As far as the further development of financial sector regulation framework and procedure are concerned we
would like to emphasize that the draft of Supervisory Development Plan from 2006 to 2009 is prepared for
NBS Governor's and World Bank approval and this document addresses issues raised by PFSAC 2
Implementation Completion Report.

Furthermore, National Bank of Serbia has initiated procedure for drafting new Banking Law, which would
address following issues, raised by International Monetary Fund and World Bank experts:

1. Enforcement provisions - It should provide for a process of "prompt corrective action" that requires
     (but also protects) the NBS to act in certain circumstances. It should clearly allow enforcement actions
     to be taken on the basis of "unsafe and unsound banking practices" that threaten a bank's financial
     stability.

2. Corporate Governance - The new banking Law should provide authority to the NBS to address not
     only boards and executive management, but also significant shareholders.

3. Financial Statement Accuracy and Audit Committee - Consistent with the bank governance and
     Financial Statement Accuracy provisions, the new Banking Law should explicitly require each bank to
     have an Audit Committee, derived from members of the supervisory board, a majority of would be


                                                      - 17 -

    independent board members. It should require an independent reporting line to the Supervisory Board.
    The Banking Law should explicitly assign to the Supervisory Board the responsibility of receiving an
    adequate audit.

4. External Audits ­ The new law should require external audit cooperation with the supervisor; auditor
    notification of issues that may or do threaten the viability of the bank as well as violations of law.

5. Risk Management: In order that boards and management operate their banks in a "prudent" manner
    (sound bank governance) and in accordance with the Law, a system of good risk management must be
    embedded in the bank(s). Boards and management should be charged with establishing sound risk
    management, including risk measurement and management systems for specific risks: credit, interest
    rate, liquidity, market, reputation, etc, and internal controls. The new Banking Law should assign
    responsibility for such and provide the NBS the authority to apply (and take actions on) requirements
    for sound risk management.

6. Licensing and Corporate Approvals:

    l Licensing: Requirements need further strengthening in areas of fit and proper tests.
    l Ongoing "license requirements", including ongoing "fit and proper": the requirements a bank must
        meet upon licensing should be enforced throughout its charter including: "fit and proper"
        significant shareholders, boards, management; transparent ownership and organizational structure,
        sound internal controls and risk management, etc.
    l Change in control: "Threshold" for acquisition of bank's shares should be granted beginning with
        5% of ownership.
    l NBS approval for certain banking business activities: The NBS should have explicit authority to
        review and approve banking activities such as major investment activity, establishment /
        acquisition of subsidiaries, etc
    l Insider Transactions: The new Law should explicitly prohibit preferential treatment in any bank
        transactions, not just lending.
7. Consolidated supervision: With new Banking Law NBS should provide for the legal authority to
    supervise groups that include banks.

8. Legal Protection: NBS officials, employees and agents must be protected against lawsuits for actions
    taken in good faith in the course of their official duties.



(b) Cofinanciers:



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 18 -

    10. Additional Information

    Assessment of Outcome Benchmarks

                                 Outcome benchmarks                                     Actual
I. Reform of Business Environment
    Elimination of       Decrease in number of procedures and      · Entry of new companies has been streamlined
    barriers to business average time spent during each            through changes in the Law on Registration.
    entry                procedure.                                · According to World Bank's Doing Business
                                                                   database, the initial reforms reduced the average
                                                                   time needed for company registration from 70 to
                                                                   40 days. The new system has further reduced
                                                                   nthis time to 18-20 days.
    Establishment of     A robust and efficient regulatory         · The new Bankruptcy Law, enacted the new
    the regulatory       regime for leasing operations, leading    law on July 24, 2004, represents a major step
    framework            to an increase in the volume of           toward establishing a more robust legal
    conducive for        outstanding leases.                       framework for the private sector. Under the new
    development of                                                 law, the Bankruptcy Supervisory Agency was
    leasing operations                                             established under the auspices of the Ministry of
                                                                   Economy and Privatization (MOEP) to license,
                                                                   supervise, and regulate bankruptcy trustees.
                                                                   · However, the delays in the implementation of
                                                                   the bankruptcy regime have been significant, as
                                                                   the law only began to be implemented in
                                                                   February 2005. An bankruptcy regime with an
                                                                   operational institutional capacity is not yet in
                                                                   place.

    Improvement of       Fully functioning bankruptcy regime       · Leasing has become a popular and important
    legal and            as shown by the increase in the           financial instrument to finance investment.
    institutional        number of completed bankruptcy            According to the leasing registry, there has been
    framework for        procedures.                               a significant increase in the number of leases.
    bankruptcy
II. Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory
Framework
    Improve the          Proper legal provisions ensuring          · A number of important improvements to the
    existing banking     adequate governance and                   banking regulation have been made, however,
    regulation           independence of NBS.                      enforcement remains a key issue.
                         A robust and efficient regulatory         · The establishment of a robust and efficient
                         regime for banking sector.                regulatory regime is largely achieved. The key
                                                                   challenge going forward is to adopt a consistent
                                                                   and robust approach toward enforcement of the
                                                                   existing prudential regime.
    Introduce IAS for    Serbian banking sector fully compliant    · IAS (now "IFRS") for banks and insurance
    banks                with IAS.                                 companies are required as of end-2003.
                                                                   · The NBS is realigning banks' chart of
                                                                   accounts to reflect new IAS reporting
                                                                   requirements.

    Strengthening of     A robust and efficient supervisory        · Strengthened the institutional capabilities of



                                                           - 19 -

     supervisory        framework for banking sector.             the NBS from a relatively poor position to fulfill
     capacity of the                                              its responsibilities as regulator and supervisor.
     NBS.                                                         · However, development of an efficient
                                                                  supervisory framework remains a key challenge.
                                                                  · Additional TA is being provided by bilateral
                                                                  donors in broad alignment with the revised
                                                                  Supervisory Development Plan.

     Full               Fully-functioning legal and               · The Ministry of Finance has supported the
     implementation of  institutional regime for preventing       development of a new anti-money laundering
     Anti-Money         money laundering activities.              regime and the establishment of a fully
     Laundering                                                   resourced Financial Intelligence Unit, the
     Policies                                                     Administration for the Prevention of Money
                                                                  Laundering (APML).
                                                                  · The APML was recently assessed and accepted
                                                                  for membership by the Egmont Group, an
                                                                  international coalition dedicated to fostering the
                                                                  development of financial intelligence units and
                                                                  the exchange of information.
                                                                  · The APML provides information to the
                                                                  appropriate Serbian and overseas authorities to
                                                                  assist in the prevention and detection of money
                                                                  laundering and terrorist financing activities.
     Modernize legal    A robust and efficient regulatory and     · The legal framework around the insurance
     and institutional  supervisory regime for insurance          sector has been significantly strengthened with
     framework for      sector                                    the Government's enactment of the new law on
     insurance sector in                                          insurance in May 2004.
     Serbia                                                       · Reforms have increased minimum capital
                                                                  requirements, highlighted the need to remove
                                                                  restrictions on reinsurance options for local
                                                                  direct insurers, established stronger controls
                                                                  over intermediaries, and introduced a new
                                                                  requirement that life and non-life operations
                                                                  have separate licenses.
                                                                  · Efforts to date have focused on establishing
                                                                  appropriate by-laws. However, supervisory
                                                                  capacity is still being strengthened, and TA is
                                                                  being provided by the Bank in the context of the
                                                                  proposed PDPL.
III. Banking Sector Restructuring
     Banks in           Inflow from privatization proceeds to     · Inflow from first bank privatization (JuBanka)
     rehabilitation     the budget of the Government of           has brought revenues in excess of EUR 100
                        Serbia.                                   million. Upcoming bank privatizations are
                                                                  expected to produce further significant revenues
                                                                  for the budget.
     PLC-affected banks Efficient and modernized                  · Foreign ownership of the banking sector
     under the          private-sector led banking system,        increased from 17 percent of total banking
     privatization      with level of intermediation consistent   system assets in June 2003 to 43 percent at
     program            with comparable CEE countries.            end-March 2005.
IV. Enterprise Sector Reform
     Tender             Total value of enterprise assets          · A total of 81 companies were offered, and 43
     Privatization      privatized through tender.                were sold via tender privatization with a book



                                                          - 20 -

                                                           value of EUR 628 million.
                  Inflow from tender privatization         · The inflow from tender privatization proceeds
                  proceeds to the budget of the            to the budget was EUR 826 million. In addition,
                  Government of Serbia.                    the privatizations included EUR 706 million in
                                                           investment commitments and EUR 272 million
                                                           for social programs.
Auction           Total value of enterprise assets         · A total of 1,132 companies with a book value
Privatization     privatized through auction.              of EUR 619 million were sold via auctions.
                  Inflow from auction privatization        · The inflow from auction proceeds to the
                  proceeds to the budget of the            budget was EUR 457 million. In addition, the
                  Government of Serbia.                    privatizations included EUR 130 million worth
                                                           in investment commitments.
Restructuring and Inflow from the privatization proceeds
Privatization of  to the budget of the Government of
Large SOEs        Serbia.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                          - 22 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                            Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million      US$ million




  Total Baseline Cost                                         0.00              0.00
                          Total Project Costs                 0.00
                    Total Financing Required                  0.00              0.00




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank       Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Not applicable in an adjustment operation.




                                             - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/07/2002                6     FSD TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); SR. PSD SPECIALIST (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             LEAD FSD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PSD CONSULTANT (1)
              06/24/2002                8    PSD TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); SR. PSD SPECIALIST (3);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PSD CONSULTANTS (2); FSD
                                             CONSULTANTS (1)
              10/16/2002              14      FSD TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); PSD TASK TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); SR. PSD
                                             SPECIALISTS (3);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             FSD SPECIALISTS (4); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL ADVISOR (1);
                                             PSD CONSULTANTS (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/10/2002                2    FSD TASK TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL ADVISOR (1)
              02/03/2003                6    FSD TASK TEAM LEADER
                                             (1); PSD TASK TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ADVISOR (1) OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); LEAD FSD
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SR. PSD
                                             CONSULTANTS (1)


 Supervision
              09/8/2003                 9    SECTOR MANAGER (1);               S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PRINC. FIN'L ADVISOR
                                             (1); LEAD FIN'L
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3)
              03/29/2004                6    SECTOR MANAGER (1);               S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PRINC. FIN'L ADVISOR (1);
                                             PROJECTS OFFICER (1);




                                              - 25 -

                                              CONSULTANT (2)
               07/30/2004                     PRINC. FIN'L ADVISOR (1);                S              S
                                              TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
               09/23/2004                  2  PRINC. FIN'L ADVISOR (1);                S              S
                                              TASK TEAM LEADER (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           577,222
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                          237,666
  ICR                                                                   60,000
  Total                                                                874,888
Note: The US$577,000 includes resources for Appraisal/Negotiation as well as Identification/Preparation.




                                               - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Background documents
l Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy, July 25, 2001, R2001-0049/2
l Yugoslavia Transitional Support Strategy Update
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia: Breaking with the Past. Report No 22267-YU, July 15, 2001


Project Appraisal Documents
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
l Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. Report No 25855 - YU, May 14, 2003


Implementation Completion Reports
l Implementation Completion Report, Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. Report 27530,
   December 19, 2003

Project Documents
l Aide Memories and Project Status Reports
l Office Memorandum: Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC II): Full
   Compliance -- 2nd Tranche Release, October 26, 2004.




                                                - 29 -

- 30 -

