MONTENEGRO
   AND
     SERBIA                                  -                                     Private
                                                                                         Second
                                               - --  -
                and Financial Sector Adiustment Credit(Ciedit No37800 Yn

                        Release of the Second Tranche-Full Compliance


                                           I.       BACKGROUND

     1. Serbia began the delayed transitionto democracy and a market economy under very
    difficulteconomicandsocialconditions.Theseconditionsresultfromnearlyfour
    decades of inefficienteconomicmanagementandadecade                          of regionalconflictsand
    international isolation that followed the break-upof socialist Yugoslaviain 1991.

     2. Despitetheseformidableodds,sinceearly               2001 theSerbianauthoritieshavetaken
    impressive steps toaddressthedauntinglegacy                 of thepast.Thegovernmenthas
    followed a two-pronged approach combining stabilization measures with decisive stepsin
    anagenda     of structuralreforms.Notwithstandingremainingpoliticalrisks,sound
    macroeconomicpolicieshavegenerallybeen                  successhl inbringingdowninflation,
    stabilizing the exchange rate, andin establishing macroeconomic stability (see Section II
    below).

     3. In parallel to stabilizationefforts,theSerbiangovernmentmadesignificant,albeit
    incomplete, progressin the implementation of structural reform measures outlinedin the
    medium-term Economic Recovery Transition
                                   and            Program (ERTP)2 Bank's
                                                                    and
    Transitional Support Strategy for SAM. More specifically, there has been considerable
    progress in openingtheeconomy,restructuringthebankingsector,privatization                         of
    socially-ownedenterprisesadopting
                            and      legislation areas
                                                 many aimed
                                                 in                                                    at
    harmonizationwith the European Union.

     4. ThePFSAC II wasdesignedtosupportstructuralreforms in bankingandenterprise
    sectors, aiming to foster private sector growth and job creation, facilitated by a healthier
    andmoredevelopedfinancialsystem.Thisoperationbuilds                      on theimpressiveprogress
    made under the first PFSACby supporting the continu$ion of a wide-ranging privatization
    and
      restructuring
                 programstate-socially-owned
                        for and                   enterprisesbanks.
                                                            and
    Furthermore,thecreditsupportstheGovernment'slhnger-termreformagendaaimedat
    creationofamodernregulatoryandinstitutionalframeworkforsustainableprivateand
    financial sector development.

     5. Theimplementation        of thereformprogramsupported                    by thePFSAC       II was
    somewhat delayed in latter2003 through early 2004 due to increased political uncertainty
    in theperiodprecedingandimmediatelyfollowingpresidentialandparliamentary
    elections heldin Serbia. Followingits taking officein March 2004, the new Government
    reaffirmed its commitment to thePFSAC II programobjectivesand has sincemade



     SeeBreaking WiththePast: The Pathto Stabilityand Growth(2001) for more on the medium-termERTP.

 commendable effort to complete the implementation o f the program before the closing
 date o f December 31,2004.


                         11.     RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

  6. The strong implementation o f stabilization and reform program was accompanied by
 solid economic recovery following the sharp contraction in 1999:SAM's GDP grew by 5.5
 percent and 4 percent in 2001 and in 2002, respectively. By 2003, however, the initially
 buoyant economy slowed down. Real GDP growth declined to 3 percent-lower            thanthe
 program target o f 3.5-4.5 percent -- due mainly to two reasons. First, the assassination o f
 the SerbianPrimeMinister Zoran Djindjic inMarch 2003 coupled with the decision to hold
 early Serbian Parliamentary elections in December 2003 led to political uncertainty,
 thereby adversely affecting both the implementation of key structural reforms and overall
 economic activity. Second, the drought in northern Serbia, coupled with insufficient
 investment and general lack o f competitiveness, led to the unsatisfactory performance in
 industryandagriculture, therebynegatively affecting growth.

  7. S A M ' s GDP i s expected to grow by about 6 percent in 2004-1.5 percent higher
than previous projections-reflecting        a strong recovery in industry, due to accelerated
privatization in 2003, strong growth in services, and a rebound in agricultural output.
Available data seems to be inline with the noted growth projection. Against the backdrop
o f a strong recovery inmanufacturing, industrial production in S A M grew by 7.2 percent
year-on-year inthe first eight months o f 2004. Concurrently, retail sales inthe first seven
months increased by 13.0 percent year-on-year, reflecting apick up ineconomic activity.

  8. Price developments during the first nine months o f 2004 suggest that the end-year
target may be breached. Twelve-month inflation stood at 11.1 percent in September,
drivenby strong wage growth, exchange rate depreciation, administrativeprice hikes, tax
increases and rising oil prices-all    o f which confirms that that the program's end-year
target o f 8-9 percent set at the time o f the Third Reviewwill be missed. The credibility o f
program implementation will determine whether the adverse impact o f the noted one-off
factors on inflation will bepermanent or temporary.

 9. In response to the noted price developments, the National Bank o f Serbia (NBS)
tightened the monetarypolicy stance at mid-year.InJune, the N B S raised the interest rate
on its bills, draining liquidity by close to 0.2 percent o f GDP. In August, it increased the
required reserve ratio by 3 percentage points to tighten liquidity again after reversing a
large part o f the interest increase inJuly.

 10.    These measures have been supported by further strong fiscal adjustment. On
October 19, 2004, the Serbian Parliament adopted the re-balanced budget for 2004,
which, relying mainly on expenditures cuts, envisages a reduction o f the budget deficit
from 45.3 billiondinars (3.3 percent o f GDP) to 32.7 billion dinars (2.4 percent o f GDP).

 11.    In early July, the government reached an agreement with the London Club of
commercial creditors settling Serbia's outstanding USD 2.7 billion debt, which will have
a favorable impact on the debt dynamics. The agreement provides for 62 percent
reduction inthe net present value o f such debt, reducingthe country's overall debt burden
by around 7 percentage points o f GDP.

 12.    As a result o f the combination of higher oil prices, a surge in imports, and slow
growth o f exports during the first eight months o f 2004, the current account deficit in
2004 i s projected to increase to 13 percent o f GDP (against 11percent projected at the
time o fthe ThirdReview).

 13.    Relations with the IMF. On October 25, 2004, the IMF mission and the
authorities reached an agreement ad referendum on an economic program for 2004-2005
supported by the IMF under the Extended Arrangement for 2002-05. The objective o f
the mission was to revise policy targets to ensure continued progress against the
background of, inter alia, a higher-than-projected current account deficit. The Executive
Board o f the IMF i s expected to discuss the Fourth Review o f the Arrangement in
December 2004.

 14.    Macroeconomic Policy Framework. The country has made good progress in
reducing inflation, attracting foreign direct investment, and buildingup foreign reserves,
while macroeconomic policies are broadly on track. Placing Serbia on a sustainable
growth path and increasing the country's resilience to shocks, however, will entail
unwavering commitment and determined implementation o fpolicy measures aimed at: (i)
reducing the size of the public sector; (ii)
                                           altering the composition o f public expenditures;
and (iii)stepping up progress in those structural reforms that would enhance the
economy's supplyresponse.

 15.   Consistent with the noted objectives, the authorities have updated the economic
objectives for 2004-05 and beyond to reflect robust growth in incomes as well as
employment and address higher inflation and safeguarding a sustainable external
position:

   0   Real GDP i s projected to increase by 4% - 5 percent in2005, settling at 5 percent
       in subsequent years as restructuring-related output losses subside, privatization
       and enterprise restructuring continue, and cumulative FDI inflows reach higher
       levels,
   0   End-period inflation in Serbia i s expected to accelerate to 12-13 percent in 2004
       due inpart to one-off exogenous shocks, but is targeted to fall under 10percent in
       2005, and to gradually decline to low single digits over the medium term.
   0   The external current account deficit (before grants) i s projected to increase to 13
       percent o f GDP in 2004, but decline to 12 percent in 2005 as policies directed at
       containing domestic demand take effect. To ensure external sustainability and
       remain consistent with expected financing, the deficit i s projected to decline
       steadily thereafter based on a recovery o f exports as structural reforms elicit a
       supply response andprudentpolicies strengthen competitiveness.

      0   The re-balanced budget for 2004 will help lower public consumption, inflation
          and the current account deficit. Fiscal policy will continue to remain tight in
          2005. The shift to taxing consumption instead of income will be continued with
          the introduction o f the VAT inJanuary and the removal o f small taxes. Measures
          will be taken to improve compliance and tax payer services. The size o f the
          government will be reduced by lowering the level and improving efficiency o f
          current expenditures  .

  16.    Against this backdrop and the recent agreement with the authorities inthe context
 o f the IMF's Fourth Review, IDA considers that the current macroeconomic framework
 inS A M is satisfactory. The proceeds ofthe second tranche, which are part ofthe revised
 2004 budget agreed with the IMF,will provide budgetary support to helpthe Government
 service external debt and implementits poverty reduction agenda.


   111.    PROGRESSAGAINST SECONDTRANCHERELEASECONDITIONS

  17.    As described in the sections above, the Republic o f Serbia has demonstrated
 satisfactory progress in carrying out o f the reform program. The macroeconomic policy
 framework i s also deemed satisfactory by the Bank and the IMF. The ensuingparagraphs
document the status o f the twelve policy actions set forth in Schedule 2 o f the D C A as
core conditions for the 2"d tranche release.

  18.    The Republic of Serbia has enacted a law on business registration and a law on
the agencyfor business services, satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 1in Schedule
2 o fthe DCA). This conditionhasbeenmet.

  19.    Both laws were enacted by Parliament on May 21, 2004. The new legislation i s
consistent with good Europeanpractices and aims to: (i) a unified Serbian business
                                                          create
register that includes all business activities covered under the current Enterprise Law and
Law on Private Entrepreneurs; (ii)administer the new unified registry through an
independent administrative agency; (iii) businesses to start activities immediately
                                            allow
after registration; (iv) streamline data requirements for each class o f business according
to European Union benchmarks; (v) expand electronic registration and updating, and
ensure easy electronic accessibility to the database; and, (vi) create a single unique
identifying number for each enterprise that would serve all government needs. The
newly established Business Services Agency (BSA) i s in charge o f administering the
business registry, which is expected to become fully operational by March 2005. The
Bank i s currently administering a US$1.6 million grant from Swedish International
Development Agency, which aims to assist the authorities in financing the start-up
expenses o f the BSA, including the costs o f hardware and software for the new
registration system.

 20.    The Government of the Republic of Serbia has prepared a draft enterprise law,
satisfactory to the Association, and had made it available to the public for public
discussion and commentary (paragraph 2 in Schedule 2 o f the DCA).          This condition
has beenmet.

  21.     The first draft o f new law has been prepared by the Working Group at the
 MinistryifEconomy andPrivatization(MOEP) inthe Fallof2003. This draft underwent
 some revisions, and was subject to intensive public consultation process, after the new
 Government came into office in March 2004. It i s expected the law will be enacted by
 the Serbian Parliament inNovember 2004 (core condition of SAC I1(Republic of Serbia)
 Board presentation). The new law will not only be closer to the company laws o f market
 economies, but also easier to use in business planning and in avoiding or settling
 disputes. This will, inturn, improve the business environment for enterprises and help to
 attract investment.

  22.     The most important improvements inthe new law can be summarized as follows:

        e                 The limited liability company provisions of the law are more
           flexible. The minimum capital requirement i s proposed to be reduced from
           5,000 Euros to 500 Euros per member and there is no longer a requirement o f
           capital maintenance.

        e                 The law introduces two types of joint stock companies, namely
           closed and open. The new Serbian closed company will be free o f capital
           maintenance requirements and will be free to impose restrictions on the transfer
           o f its shares, but cannot offer its shares publicly and may not have more than
           100 shareholders unless it adopts and agrees to follow the rules and
           requirements for an open company.

        e                 A large number of changes are made to encourage good corporate
           governance. The law expands and clarifies a director's legal duty o f care and
           duty of loyalty to the company, introduces the concept o f "personal interest",
           simplifies the structure of the board, makes the establishment o f a supervisory
           board optional and provides for directors to be elected only by the shareholders
           andto have only one-year terms.

       e                  The new Law also has detailed provisions for merger, division, and
           conversion o f a company from one form to another; it imposes new disclosure
           andother requirements on companies andpersons who control a company andit
           provides new rules for the liquidation o f a company outside bankruptcy.

       e                 Finally, the new law contains a number o f provisions designed to
           meet the requirements o f EUCompany Law Directives.


 23.     The Republic of Serbia has enacted a bankruptcy law, satisfactory to the
Association (paragraph 3 inSchedule 2 o f the DCA). This conditionhasbeen met.

 24.    The Law on Bankruptcy was enacted on July 24, 2004 and became effective on
July 31,2004. The provisions o f the new law are consistent with EUpractices and have
been designed to minimize the impact o f existing institutional deficiencies in the
judiciary and the trustee community.          In particular, the new law contains specific
provisions designed to expedite the opening o f bankruptcy proceedings, as well as a

 comprehensive section on reorganization o f viable debtors. The Bankruptcy Supervisory
 Agency will be established under the auspices o f the MOEP by end-December 2004 to
 license, supervise, and regulate bankruptcy trustees. The MOEP, with United States
 Agency for Intemational Development (USAID) and Bank support, has developed a
 general trustee training course and a program to educate the judges on the concepts
 contained inthe new law. Also by the end o f 2004, a specialized Bankruptcy Unit will be
 established at the Privatization Agency (PA), and supported by the Bank's technical
 assistance credit, to act as the bankruptcy trustee for socially- or state-owned enterprises.
 The bankruptcy process for socially- and state-owned enterprises will continue to be
 carried out under the authority and supervision o f the courts, as will all other bankruptcy
 proceedings.     Since the implementation o f the law requires the establishment of two
 institutions and the certification o f trustees, the application o f the law will start six
 months from the day o f effectiveness. The Bank is fully satisfied with this arrangement.

  25.     The NBS has reached satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
 Supervisory Development Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 4
 inSchedule2 o fthe DCA). This conditionhasbeenmet.

  26.    The multi-year Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) was designed to address the
 overall development and strengthening o f the banking supervision function. With the
 exception o f one o f the nine agreed `measures' (which is on track - see paragraph 27),
the N B S has satisfactorily progressed with respect to each measure, including: (1)
approval and communication to staff o f a supervisory operating procedure; (2) approval
o f lines o f delegated responsibility; (3) the N B S requirement that banks' boards receive,
review, respond to, and sign reports o f examination; (5) communication with bank boards
and management; (6) approval o f an examination manual; (7) adoption of bank rating
system; (8) plans for a documentary database; and (9) the negotiation o f two M O U s with
foreign supervisory authorities.

 27.     The most far reaching amongst the nine agreed SDP measures (number 4)
requires that NBS' bank supervision conduct risk targeted supervisory activities in the
highest risk institutions, as established in the N B S Supervisory Review Committee
examination schedule. The NBS recently submitted a more robust analysis and support
for its planned supervisory activities, which better correlates the banks to their identified
risks.   As the risk identification protocol to stratify the most vulnerable banks was
adopted in mid-October, the specific supervisory actions to be taken towards these banks
are slated to be inplace by year-end.

 28.     The FIU has begun to function in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(paragraph 5 in Schedule 2 o f the DCA). This conditionhasbeen met.

 29.    The Ministry o f Finance (MOF) established and resourced a new division to
combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The Administration for the Prevention
o f Money Laundering (APML) division o f the MOF serves as the Financial Intelligence
Unit (FIU) or repository o f information from banks, insurance companies and others
regarding large cash and suspicious transactions.            The APML in tum provides

 information to the appropriate Serbian and overseas authorities to assist inthe prevention
  and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing activities. The APML was
 recently independently evaluated in accordance with international best practice and
 accepted for membership by the Egmont Group, an international coalition dedicated to
 fostering the development o f FIUs and the exchange o f information.

  30.    The BRA has appointed theprivatization adviser, satisfactory to the Association,
for the privatization of Niska Banka (paragraph 6 in Schedule 2 o f the DCA).           This
 condition hasbeenmet.

  31.    The privatization advisory contract for Niska Banka was executed October 14th
 2004. Thus, it i s envisaged that Niska Banka may be publicly offered for sale shortly
 after the new year.

  32.    The BRA has issued a tender, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, for the
 sale of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's ownership in three banks satisfactory
 to the Association (paragraph 7 in Schedule 2 o f the DCA).      This condition has been
 met.

  33.    The BRA, as agent for the Government o f the Republic of Serbia, engaged a
 reputable investment bank to act as its financial advisor to privatize three majority state-
 owned banks: JuBanka, Continental and Novosadska banks. JuBanka was offered for
 sale through open tender in May 2004; eight bidders were short-listed and three
 indicative bids were received at end-August. Final bids are due in November. The
 advertisement for the sale o f Continental andNovosadkabanks was published September
24thinthe FinancialTimes.

  34.    The Government of the Republic of Serbia has approved and begun to implement
a time-bound actionplan, satisfactory to the Association, for the resolution of the largest
bank remaining under the bank restructuring program (paragraph 8 in Schedule 2 o f the
DCA). This conditionhas beenmet.

  35.   As part of its on-going efforts to strengthen governance and controls at this
systemically important bank, a restructuring advisor was placed on-site at Vojvodjanska
Banka (VB) and the management team replaced. Then, after extensive consultations, the
BRA Council, ledbythe Minister ofFinance, MinisterofEconomy andPrivatizationand
N B S Governor, formally adopted the VB restructuringplan in April 2004. The bank has
since met or exceeded the agreed restructuring targets. The Government i s committed to
the sale of VB, as the tender for the selection of a privatization advisor was launched
October 4th. The September mission re-affirmed with the authorities that the privatization
advisory contract would be executed by about end-2004. Thereafter, upon undertaking
its due diligence and upon receipt o f the end-ZOO4 external audit report, a majority stake
would be offered for sale to a strategic investor via international tender no later than May
2005. It i s envisaged the bank's sale would be concluded prior to end-2005.

  36.    The Republic of Serbia has enacted a law on insurance satisfactory to the
 Association (paragraph 9 inSchedule 2 o f the DCA). This conditionhasbeenmet.

  37.    A new Insurance Law became effective May 2gth, 2004. Major reforms include
 substantially increased sustained minimum capital requirements, restrictions on
 reinsurance options for local direct insurers, strong controls over intermediaries and a
 requirement that life and non-life operations have separate licenses. Under the new
 insurance law, supervision o f insurershas beentransferred to the National Bank o f Serbia
 (NBS) whilst regulation remains with the MOF. Total supervisory staff now numbers 32,
 with another 30 or so persons still to be selected.

  38.    The PA has sold through tender, initiated the restructuring proceedings, or
 initiated bankvuptcy proceedings with respect to at least 35percent of the socially-owned
 enterprises agreed upon by the Borrower and Association, such actions having been
conducted in a manner and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
 including the provision in the offer of sale through tender of a legally binding
commitment tofinance the applicable severancepaymentsfor all redundant employees of
such enterprises (paragraph 10 in Schedule 2 o f the DCA).        This condition has been
met.

  39.    Despite a difficult political environment, the PA has made good progress in the
tender privatization o f socially-owned enterprises (SOEs). Using technical assistance
provided by the Bank and bilateral donors, the PA had engaged expert privatization
advisors for 54 SOEs, organized intwelve pools. As o f October 1, 2004, 23 enterprises
have been successfully sold, which has more than fulfilled the relevant PFSAC I1
condition.    Tenders are still ongoing or planned for 14 more enterprises.         Eleven
enterprises are now undergoingrestructuring prior to beingoffered for sale, and six more
SOEs have beenmovedto auctions.

 40.    Starting on April 1, 2003, the PA has: (a) offered for sale through auctions, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, no less than 560 socially owned enterprises; and
(b) sold through auctions at least 250 socially-owned enterprises (paragraph 11 in
Schedule 2 o f the DCA). This conditionhasbeenmet.

 41,    The PA kept up the momentum inthe auctionprivatizationprocess and the targets
envisioned in PFSAC I1conditionality were surpassed by the end o f December 2003.
Specifically, 595 enterprises were put for sale in auction between April 1 and December
31, 2003, and 463 o f them were successfully sold. This year (2004) the auction process
slowed somewhat from the rapid pace o f 2003, due largely to the declining number and
quality o f the companies available for auction. In2004, 372 companies were offered or
expect to be offered for sale, with 227 o f them sold or expected to be sold.

 42.    The PA has offered for sale two socially owned conglomerate enterprises agreed
upon by the Borrower and Association, or has offered for sale viable parts of such
enterprises, all in a manner and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(paragraph 12 in Schedule 2 o fthe DCA). This conditionhas been met.

 43.    Using the technical assistance finding provided by the Bank and other donors
(USAID, EAR, DFID), the PA engaged teams o f international and local advisors to lead
the preparation and implementation of privatization through restructuring programs for
about 30 companies. In particular, using the Bank's TA Credit, the PA has engaged
financial advisors to work on 12 large SOEs in its portfolio. After initial delays due to
the difficult Serbian legal and creditor environment, the PA adopted a strategy putting
more emphasis on conditional sales (subject to debt restructuring after a conditional bid
offer) and sales o f assets and subsidiaries. As a result o f this approach, a number of
companies and/or parts thereof have been offered for tender or auction since the start o f
2004, including three SOEs financed by the Bank (Matroz, Livnica and Sever).        While
the tender for Matroz failed to attract any bids and the company i s now scheduled for
bankruptcy, Livnica has been successfully sold in August 2004, and the negotiations are
currently underway with the winningbidder for Sever.

                                    IV.    Conclusion

 44.   Inview of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the
program supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions o f release
as described in Section 2.02 (d), the Bank has informed the Borrower of the availability o f
the second tranche o f SDR 29.35 million.

