Report No. PID11621
Project Name                     Serbia and Montenegro (SAM)-Second Private and 
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Finance and Enterprise Sectors
Project ID                       P074868
Borrower                         Government of Serbia and Montenegro
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Republic of
Serbia (MOFE)
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           March 13, 2003
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 13, 2003
Projected Appraisal Date         April 2003
Projected Board Date             May 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
SAM and Serbia began the renewed transition to democracy and market economy
under very difficult economic and social conditions. These conditions result
from forty years of centrally-planned economic mismanagement and a decade of
regional conflicts and international isolation that followed the break-up of
socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1991. To promote private sector-led
growth, the current SAM and Serbian authorities have initiated a wide range of
structural and institutional reforms in enterprise and financial sector.
2. Project Objectives
The proposed PFSAC II will support the governments of Serbia and Montenegro,
and its largest constituent republic, the Republic of Serbia, in the
implementation of regulatory, institutional, and structural reforms seeking to
significantly accelerate private sector-led growth through: (i) improving the
business environment by means of comprehensive reform of enterprise entry,
operation and exit; (ii) strengthening the financial system by privatizing
and/or liquidating majority state-owned banks and improving the environment
under which banks and other financial intermediaries operate; and (iii)
privatizing and restructuring socially-owned enterprises that crowd out private
sector growth, hamper banking sector recovery, and incur significant fiscal and
quasi-fiscal costs.
3.   Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for SAM identifies the stimulation of
near-term growth as one of key challenges facing the SAM and Serbian authorities
on a path to a market economy.
The proposed PFSAC II is part of the ongoing IDA program with the authorities of
the Republic of Serbia to support enterprise sector reforms that foster private
sector growth and job creation, facilitated by a healthier and more developed
financial system. Initial reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors had
been supported under the first Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(PFSAC I), approved by the Board in May 2002, and fully disbursed shortly
thereafter, based on strong performance during 2001 and the first half of 2002.
Important complementary activities to the proposed PFSAC II include: (i) two



Technical Assistance (TA) Grants for Private and Financial Sector Development of
US$6 million each (PSD and FSD TA Grants), approved in mid-2001; (ii) the
Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises TA Credit of US$11
million, approved in December 2002; and (iii) the US$1.5 million Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Trust Fund Grant from the Government of Japan
to prepare PFSAC II.
The Bank experience has shown that an integrated approach is needed to reform
the private and financial sectors in Serbia. Under the proposed operation,
financial sector reforms are expected to boost financial intermediation, and
encourage domestic savings, generating the much needed working capital and
investment finance needed for the real sector to expand. At the same time, the
privatization of socially-owned enterprises and more vibrant small and medium
enterprise sector supported by the reforms of business-enabling environment, are
expected to lay the basis for sustainable growth. Very importantly, the proposed
project will be sequenced with the Government's ongoing efforts, supported by
the Bank and other donors, to provide adequate social protection for those
displaced by restructuring and privatization.
4. Description of Proposed Project
The proposed PFSAC II will be a two-tranche operation. The proposed credit will
be conditioned on specific reform efforts in the following five areas: (i)
Reform of Business Enabling Environment; (ii) Reform of Financial Sector
Regulatory and Supervisory Framework (iii) Banking Sector Reform; and (iv)
Enterprise Sector Reform.
i. Reform of Business Enabling Environment would aim to improve the regulatory
and institutional framework for business entry through improving the
registration system; to facilitate efficient operations of business through
reforming the Enterprise Law, building institutional capacity for deregulation,
and improving enterprises' access to finance; and reducing barriers to the
efficient exit and redeployment of non-productive assets.
ii. Reform of Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework would seek
to create a modern regime for financial sector operations through strengthening
the supervision and regulation of banking and insurance sectors, laying out the
foundation for the future implementation of a sustainable deposit insurance
scheme, and creating adequate mechanisms to prevent money laundering activities.
iii. Banking Sector Reform would seek to deepen and broaden the scope of
financial intermediation through selling controlling stakes in most privatizable
banks to reputable strategic investors, and liquidating all other majority
state-owned banks.
iv. Enterprise Sector Reform would seek to promote economic growth by putting
the country's industrial assets to more productive use through divestiture of
vast and under-performing socially-owned enterprise sector to foreign and local
investors using internationally accepted sale techniques.
5. Implementation
Due to the highly devolved nature of SAM (most areas of economic policy are in
the competence of the republics) and the different starting points, needs and
pace of reforms in the two republics, the proposed PFSAC II will focus
exclusively on the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Ministry of Finance and
-2 -



Economy will serve as the main government counterpart who will ensure the
overall project coordination among several other agencies also involved in the
reform program: National Bank of Serbia (NBS), Serbian Ministry of Economy and
Privatization (MOEP), Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA), and Privatization Agency
(PA).
6. Benefits and Risks
Implementation of continued reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors
under this operation will enhance Serbia's prospects for growth, and will
reinforce the sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization. The main
benefit of the proposed credit would be faster private sector growth and job
creation, supported by a healthier and more developed financial system. Overall
enterprise and financial sector performance is expected to improve. This
improvement may come partly through the sale of enterprises and banks to local
and foreign investors with strong management capacity, and partly through
improved financial discipline as a result of more proactive restructuring.
Additionally, formation of new private sector firms is expected to accelerate in
response to an improved business enabling environment and an increased supply of
productive assets expected to be released from loss making firms as part of
enterprise restructuring efforts. At the same time, a well-functioning, properly
regulated and transparent financial system would allow an adequate mobilization
of resources and better allocation into productive investments needed by the
private sector to modernize and expand their businesses.
The current political uncertainty in Serbia, including the expected presidential
election and possible early parliamentary elections, represents a major risk for
the timely implementation of various legislative and institutional reforms
supported by PFSAC II. In particular, the operation faces the risk of eventual
weakening of political commitment to restructure, privatize and/or liquidate
large loss making enterprises and majority state-owned banks, many of which are
politically/socially sensitive because of their importance to the economy as a
whole and potential social and fiscal costs. Finally, the worsening of global
economic climate remains a significant risk that could deter the potential
private capital inflows to Serbia, affecting the success of enterprise and bank
privatization.
7. Environment Aspects
The proposed PFSAC II is not expected to result in any direct negative impact on
the environment. For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, the ECSSD
review rated the Credit as Category C, which does not require an environmental
assessment.
Contact Point: InfoShop
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
E-Mail: pic@worldbank.org
Project Team Leaders:
Gerardo Corrochano
The World Bank
-3-



1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.: 202-473-3568
Fax No.:        202-522-3687
Itzhak Goldberg
The World Bank
Belgrade Field Office.
Serbia and Montenegro
Telephone No.:   (381-11)3020-702
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 21, 2003.
- 4 -



