Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS
 
CONFORMED
 
September 24, 2002
 
H.E. Miroljub Labus 
Deputy Prime Minister 
Federal Government of the  
 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
Bul. Mikajla Pupina 2 
Belgrade 11070 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia  
 
Re:  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: Japanese Grant for Preparation of   
 
Second Private and Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Credit 
 
Grant No. TF051355                                                                           
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding one million four hundred fifty one thousand United States dollars (US$1,451,000) 
(the Grant) to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator for 
Southeast Europe 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
Page  2
2
AGREED: 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia   
 
By: /s/ Miroljub Labus 
 
Authorized Representative 
Deputy Prime Minister 
October 30, 2002 
 
Page  3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Second 
Private and Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Credit (the Credit), which will seek to 
significantly accelerate private sector growth through: (i) strengthening the financial system by 
privatizing/liquidating troubled state-owned banks, starting reform of key non-bank sectors, and 
improving the environment under which financial institutions operate, including the accounting 
and anti-money laundering reforms; (ii) continuing privatization and restructuring of socially 
owned enterprises (SOEs) that crowd out private sector growth, hamper banking sector recovery, 
and incur significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs; and (iii) improving the business enabling 
environment.
 
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a)  
provision of technical assistance to the National Bank of the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (NBY) and other related agencies to support the following activities: (i) preparation of 
NBY’s Supervisory Development Plan for the Bank Supervision Department of the NBY; (ii) 
capacity building for anti-money laundering agency; and (iii) accounting reform aimed at adoption of 
International Accounting Standards (estimated to cost US$213,500 equivalent); 
 
(b)  
provision of technical assistance to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia (BRA) to prepare selected state majority owned banks for liquidation or 
rehabilitation/privatization (estimated to cost US$313,000 equivalent);  
 
(c)  
provision of technical assistance to assist the NBY and other related agencies with 
institutional building and improvements in regulatory environment for insurance and capital markets 
(estimated to cost US$206,000 equivalent); 
 
(d)  
provision of technical assistance to support the Ministry of Economy and 
Privatization of the Republic of Serbia (MOEP), Agency for Privatization of the Republic of Serbia 
(PA) and other related agencies in undertaking the following activities: (i) development of auction 
privatization strategy; and (ii) privatization through restructuring of a select number of large SOEs 
(estimated to cost US$284,000 equivalent); 
 
(e)  
provision of technical assistance for reform of business enabling environment to 
support the following activities: (i) streamlining of business related procedures, including further 
deregulation of business activities, as coordinated by the Secretariat of Interministerial Committee on 
Deregulation; (ii) capacity building for Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency of the 
Republic of Serbia (SME Development Agency); (iii) strengthening of legal environment focusing 
on enterprise and leasing laws, and regulatory impact assessment; and (iv) preparation of modern 
insolvency law and strengthening the institutional framework for bankruptcy (estimated to cost 
US$404,500 equivalent); and 
 
(f)  
capacity building for project management of the unit located in the BRA to assist in 
setting up systems of financial management, procurement, and project monitoring and evaluation, in 
accordance with IDA’s policies and procedures, including the annual audit (estimated to cost 
US$10,000) (estimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent). 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
Page  4
2
The Recipient shall: (i) through the BRA, PA, NBY, MOEP and SME Development 
Agency: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information 
covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) 
from time to time exchang
e
views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the representatives of IDA to visit 
the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for purposes related to the Grant; and (ii) make 
available to the Republic of Serbia, on a grant basis, the portion of the Grant related to activities 
described in paragraphs 1 (d) and (e) of this Annex. Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the 
Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
%
of 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Expenditures to 
 Item
Allocated (in U.S. dollars)
be Financed
Consultants’ services 
 
 
(a) Services by individuals 
532,500 
87% 
 
(b) Services by firms, including    
 
auditing services 
918,500
97% 
 
TOTAL 
1,451,000
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment or import, to 
Page  5
3
IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after April 29, 2003, or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except 
in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank 
approval of financing for the Credit.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Deputy Prime Minister 
of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or such other person as he/she shall have authorized in writing; 
and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request. 
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities. IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$25,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  6
4
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi
tures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Credit; or (d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Credit. 
Page  7
5
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002
 
(the Consultant Guidelines),  paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms for Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex estimated to 
cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract 
packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for its 
review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan 
shall be updated every three months during the execution of the Activities, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to 
time) as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  8
6
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  9
7
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible items” means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$400,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
Page  10
8
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  11
9
cleared with and cc: J. Formoso (LOAG3), O. Hayat (TFO), R. Raju (ACTTF),  
S. Battacharya (ECSCS)
 
