Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5384
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
(LOAN 1762-CO)
December 28, 1984
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contects may not otberwise be disclosed without World Banlk authozation.i



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA: CERRO MAOSO NICKEL PROJECT
(LOAN 1762-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE .......................... a... O..* ..............e. *..           i
BASIC DATA SHEET ...o............................ ................ ...
HIGHLIGHT ........ ............... . ***.........e.......   iV
PART 1 .................. **** *********..     .............                I
I.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PRE-APPRAISAL AND APPRAISAL ..........   I
II.   PROJECT iMPLEXENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................   3
III.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE      .       ............... .  19
IV.   FI,NANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORKU{NCE       ...........................  34
V.    TABLES
1. Implementation Schedule
2. Project Capital Costs
3.  Disbursements for Bank Loan
.4. Disbursements for the Project
5. Organization Chart of Project Team
6. Chronology of Significant Events
7. Procurement Schedule Under Bank Loan
S. Production
9. Financial Projections
PART 2        ...............................................    58
I.    PRODUCTION BUILD-UP AND PLANT CAPACITY .........  o   ............  58
II.   NICKEL PRICES .......... ............... ....                   .    59
III.  FINANCING PLAN ..............................................   60
IV.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN ......        ................  61
V.    OVERALL ASSESSMENT ...........................................   62
VI.   LESSONS FOR SIMILAR PROJECTS ................................   63
PART 3                           .. ......... 65
I.    COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE GOVERNMENT .................    .....    65
II.   COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER .o ........................   67
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA - CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
(Loan 1762-CO)
PREFACE
This is a completion report on Loan 1762-CO which provided
financing for the development of the mining and processing facilities to
produce annually about 50 million pounds of nickel contained in ferron-ckel,
for the export market.  The project has been implemented by the Borrower,
Cerro Matoso S.A. (CMSA). a Colombian corporation specially created for
such purpose. A loan for the amount of US$80 million was approved on
October 16, 1979; the Closing Date was June 30, 1983.
The Borrower has prepared a comprehensive and well documented
Project Completion Report, covering project preparation, implementation,
operating performance and financial and economic performance. This is
presented in part 1 of the report. Bank staff shares by and large the
judgements and conclusions of the Borrower's PCR. However, certain aspects
are discussed in more detail in part 2 (prepared by the Staff), to enable
drawing conclusions of general applicability to the Bank's involvement in
similar projects in the future.
The Government and CMSA have offered specific coments and
clarifications; these have,been taken into account in finalizing the report
and are reproduced as part 3.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA: CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
(Loan 1762-CO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.  KEY PROJECT DATA                          Appraisal
Estimate            Actual
Total Project Cost (USS Million)            320.5 a/           433.4 b/
Overrun (x)                                 -                 34Z
Fixed Assets                              276.8              387.5
Working Capital                            16.3 a/            11.3 b/
Interest during Construction               27.4               34.6
Financing
Equity Contribution                       114.0              200.0
World Bank                                 80.0               80.0
US Exim Bank                               25.6               25.7
Commercial Banks                          100.9              150.0
Loan Amount
Disbursed                                  80.0               80.0
Cancelled                                   0                  0
Repaid to IBRD
Physical Project Completion
Completion of Physical Component (date)  April 1, 1982   April 1, 1982
Start-up of Operation                      April 1, 1982   May 1, 1982
Production Level '83 (lbs nickel
contained)         40.6 million lb  28.7 million lb
Financial Rate of Return                     17%                  2-7% Cl
Economic Rate of Return                      19%                  4-9% C/
a/  The.e figures have been adjusted to reflect working capital requirements by
December 1982.  The SAR estimate is based on working capital requirements to
full production.
b/  The actual project cost indicated by CMSA in its PCR is US$427.7 million
(Table 2).  This figure has been adjusted to reflect the Company's working
capital by December 1982, as indicated in its balance sheet.
c/ Based on revised estimates for costs and benefits.



- iii -
B. OTHER PROJECT DATA
Board Approval           October 16,1979
Loan Agreement Date      December 20,1979
Effective Date           July 3, 1980
Closing Date             June 30, 1983
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of                    Date of
Month/Year     Weeks      Persons     Manweeks      Report
Identifi ation       08/71          n.a          n.a         n.a           n.a
Preparation           08/76         n.a          n.a         n.a           n.a
Preparation           11/76         0.4           1          0.4         11/05/76
Preparation           01/77         1.0           1           1.0        02122/77
Appraisal             03/78         4.2           3          12.6        05/02/78
Supervision           05/79         1.0           4          4.0         05122/79
Supervision           05/80         2.0           2          4.0         05/27/80
Supervision          03/81          1.4           2          2.8         03119181
Supervision           11/81         0.8           2          1.6         11/23/81
Supervision           08/82         0.6           1          0.6         09/15/82
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
April 1979     USI.0         Col$42.40
Col$1,000    US$23.58
December 1983  US$1.0      - ColS88.77
Col$1,000  - US$11.27
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMSA           -  Cerro Matoso, S.A.
CONICOL        -  Compania de Niquel Colombiano, S.A.
CONPES         -  Consejo de politica Economica y Social
CORELCA        -  Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
DNP  '         -  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
ECOMINAS       -  Empresa Colombiana de Minas
ECONIQUEL      -  Empresa Colombiana de Niquel, Ltda.
ECOPETROL      -  Empresa Colonbiana Petroleos
IFI            -  Instituto de Fomento Industrial
INCOMEX        -  Instituto Nacional de Comercio Exterior
INGEOMINAS     -  Instituto Nacional de Geologia y Minas
ISA            -  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
SENA           -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
COLOMBIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



-iv-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA: CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
(Loan 1762-CO)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Bank involvement with this project dates back to 1967.
During the mid-1970s, after project preparation was fairly advanced, the
ownership structure of the new company to be created began to take its
present shape, with the Government holding 45Z of the shares, the Shell
Group (through Billiton) 44% and the Hanna Mining Company (through CONICOL)
11%. CMSA was incorporated in March 1979, shortly before implementation
began, and a project management organization was established with support
from the shareholders and engineering, procurement and project management
services provided by a major US engineering firm. (Part 1, section I).
Implementation proceeded quite expeditiously and construction
activities were completed in April 1982, as planned on the original
schedule. There was, however, a cost overrun of US$113 million,
representing a 34% of the appraisal estimate. This cost overrun, some
initial technical difficulties resulting in a production buildup at a lower
rate than anticipated, and present and projected trends in the
international nickel prices have resulted in additional financial
requirements and lower financial and economic rates of return than
anticipated. Price trends were acknowledged at appraisal as the main risk
affecting the project. Actual prices during the initial two years of
operation and current trends are well below the original projection. This
has been the major cause of the very tight financial situation faced by the
borrower. Additionally, current changes in the metal markets have expanded
the uncertainty associated with price projections, widening the possible
ranges and adding a new dimension to the analysis of project risks. Conse-
quently, a careful assessment of the Bank's price forecasting methodology
appears warranted for its use in future appraisals. (Part 2,paras. 2.03,2.12,2.18).
Overall the project made an important contribution to the
Colombian mining and industrial sector as well as to the development of a
remote area. CMSA was very successful in establishing a very competent
management team, integrating Colombian staff with expatriates, which also
provided a positive influence in the interaction with local consulting
firms and contractors. Recruitment and training of the workforce was
another successful achievement of the project, by making available adequate
numbers of skilled operators needed for a plant utilizing a sophisticated
technology. The support provided to the project by CMSA's shareholders,.
can also be singled out as positive lesson of good cooperation between a
host government of a developing country and foreign investors. The
approach of joint ownership between local (state and/or private) and
foreign interests are found to provide a good basis for undertaking mining
projects by combining the availability of-natural resources and knowledge
of the local environment with the access to technology, international
markets and managerial capabilities, as well as facilitating access to
capital markets. The Bank can play a catalytic role in bringing together
local and foreign interests for the implementation of mining projects.
(Part 2, para. 2.17).



PART 1
COLCiBIB: CERRO HATOSO NICKEL PROJECT - LOAN 1762 CO.
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PR'A RAS   AMD APPRAISAL.
(a) The Project.
The Project consis:s, generally, of mining and production facilities
for the processing of up to approximately 120 dry metric tons of
lateritic-nickel ore per bour to produce approximately 38.000.000 to
50.000.000  pounds  per year  of contained nickel  in the  form of
ferronickel -when operating at full capacity.
In 1979 CERRO MATOSO S. A. (CISA), the owner of the Project, was
organized with the participation of Empresa Colombiana de Niquel
Ltd. (ECONIQUEL), Billiton Overseas Ltd. (BILLITON)X and The Hanna-
mining Company (ILANNA).
ECONIQUEL  is the Colombian entity which possesses the consession
contract with the Colombian Government to produce ferromickel f om
the  mine  at  Cerromatoso,  in  the Municipality  of  Montelibano,
Departamento de C6rdoba, Colombia.
BII.ITON is a company of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, another
company of that group having the contractual coanitment with CISA
for selling the ferronickel produced by the Project.
Eanna is a Corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of
DeLaware, United States of America.
Eanna   assisted  COSA   in   connection   with   the   engineering,
construction, testing and start up of the Project. Also, Hanna has
the contractual commitment to assist C1SA in reaching the design
capacity of the Project and in monitoring the Project providing
technical and administrative services.
She first activity to define the project scope was an extensive
exploration drilling and sampling program which was the basis for a
comprehensive study covering geology, mining, marketing, operatiag.
costs, cash flow analysis and financing.



-2-
Regarding the process, two experimental programs were developed into
two  major  pilot  plant  campaigns.  One  of  these  was  at  the
Elkem-Spigerverket  research  center  in  Fiska&,  Norway  treating
approximately 350 Rg of ore per bour.
Later tests were conducted at Riddle, Oregon, in a pilot plant
designed to treat approsxiately two tons per hour.
Estimates for mining capital expenditures, preproduction costs,
operating costs, overhead requirements, allowance for employee
housing, iirstrip and other Montelfbano improvements were also
prepared.
Based on the above mentioned information, Bechtel Engineering,
Incorporated, an affiliate of Bechtel International Corporation and
Overseas Bechtel Incorporated (collectively Bechtel), prepared the
feasibility study, covering the original project scope.
(b) Role of Bank in formulating Project scope and implementation
arrangement.
Role of Bank in formulating project scope and project implementation
arrangements  was  that  of  a  consultant  to  guide  CISA  in  the
preparation and presentation of loan requests according to proper
procedures and requirements.
(c) Role of Bechtel and Consultants in Project preparation.
Bechtel had a basic role in the project preparation because, as
pointed out in I (a), they worked -on the feasibility study and
provided assistance in the implementation of that study.
Colombian consultants participated in the studies related to thL
-arcbitectural design of the towosite and aocial aspects (sanitation,
environmental protection, educacional facilities, training for local
personnel), that C1SA had to consider in order to make the project
of ost benefit to the community.
(d)  Bank involvement to formalize Loan.
As pointed out in I (b), the Bank's involvement was mostly as sn
advisor to belp CISA in acccmplishing requirements and procedurr.a
stated by be 3ank and contributing with the experience gained by the
Bank in similar projects in tehe world.



-3-
31   PROJECT IPLEHENTATION AND MANACEHENT
(a) Project Scooe
Neither project scope nor the teChnology has been cbanged except;
(i)     The availability of natural gas, mentioned as a probability,
was confirmed and is the fuel source for drying and
calcining.
(ii)    It  bas  not been  found  necessary  to  dry  ore  to  7Z  as
predicted. Drying to only 14 or 152 has resulted in excess
drying capacity available.
(iii)   Test work did not prove the possibility of the reduction of
as much as 50Z of the nickel oxide to metal realized
comercially up to now and in this way reduce the full load
requirements of the smelting furnace by as much as 10. -
(iv)    The subscitution of slag dispos:l by granulation rather than
deposit in slag pits.
Cv)     No  metal  recovery  equipment  has  yet  been  provided  as
described to remove metal from refining slags.
Cvi)    Reagents  for refiuing have needed substantially more than
the estimated amount of energy for melting.
(b)  Project Management
(i)     Organization Chart and Functions.
Table 5 shows the organization chart of CQSA's Project
Management.
Roles of parties involved in that organization were as
follows;
1. Board of Directors.
Board of Directors kept permanent control of the whole
Project covering financial, administrative and technical
matters,  decided  about  recommendations  and  approval
requests presenced for their consideration and indicated
policies to be observed by 04SA's organization.



2. Engineering, Procurement and Construction Comittee.
The EPCC was a group organized with representatives of
the stockholders with the main purpose to expedite
decisions and approvals in relation to engineering,
procurement and construction requirements presented by
Bechtel and beyond the level of authorization of CISA's
General Manager and Project Manager.
The EPCC was permanently informed about the status of
the  Project,  received  recommendations  from  OaSA's
General Manager and held monthly meetings with the
COSh's  General  Manager  and   Project  Manager   and
representatives  of  Bechtel  to  discuss  the  monthly
Progress Report prepared by Bechtel.
Maiu subjects covered during those monthly meetings were
the schedule and progress of engineering, coastruction,
commitments,  ezpenditures,  the  control  of  manhours
expenditures, the status of material requisitions for
materials and equipment and the status of import
licences.
3.  General Manager of CMSA.
General Manager of OCSA received daily reports from the
Project  Manager,   decided   about   approvals   and/or
recoimendations presented by Project Manager, kept
informed the members of the Board of Directors about the
progress of the Project, presented recommendations to
the EPCC and the Board of Directors, maintained close
relationships with government officers to expedite
apprcvals  and/or  authorizations  necessary  for  the
progress of the Project, kept permanent contacts with
fimnacial sources of CISA to comply with all formal
requirements  on  behalf  of  CMSA  axd  managed  C4SA's
organization.
4.  Project Manager of CISA.
Project Manager of CKSA had a day to day coatrol and
supervision of the Project at the plant site in close
relationship  with  Becbtel  and  consultants  and  was
provided by the stockholder with all necessary authority
to keep the project moving.
The system  used  by  the  project  nager  to  plan  and
monitor the implementation of the project included the
following activities:



-5-
Review of schedules and estimates prepared by Prime
Contractor.
Participation in project reviews, negotiations and
important meetings.
- Moni.toring all activities for compliance with plans,
schedules and budgets.
- Monitoring   cuatoms   clearance   of   material   and
equipment as required.
-  Approval  of purchase. of material  and equipment  as
required.
-  Approval of changes or additions to the scope of work.
-  Analysis  and  choice  of  techniques,   procedures,
actions, etc., to acknowledge and respond to problems.
- Monitoring of detailed design activities  to ensure
conformity with specifications.
-  Revieving  and  commenting  on  contractors'   design
drawings.
-  Reviewing layout drawings and plot plans.
-  Providing   technical   assistance   in   review   of
contractors' plans to return to schedule.
- Monitoring of procurement activities by:
Revieving purchase requisitions.
Reviewing and commenting on vendors' quotations
for selected process equipment.
Reviewing  and  commenting  on  inspections   ana
expediting procedures.
Inspecting   selected   process   equipment   during
fabrication.
-  Attending the construction kickoff meeting to ensure
understanding of quality control, field changes and
acceptance procedures.
-  Field iaspections at the sire as considered necessary.
- Monitoring of acceptance tests.



-  Assisting  in  establishing  checklists  for  plant
cAmpletion.
(ii)    Coordination Procedures.
Relationships   during   implementation   betw*en   borrower,
consultants, technical advisors, contractors and suppliers
were as follows;
:  She representative  of CISA  for  the  project Vas  the
Project Manager.
2   CQSA  entered  into  an  agrecement  with  Bechtel  for
engineering,   procurement   And   project   coordinating.
services.
3   According  to  this  agreemeuc,  and  subject  to  the
direction and control of C1SA, Bechtel acted as COSA's-,
agent and  performed  engineering, procurement, project
coordination,  pre-operational  testing  and  start  up
services.
Also  Bechtel represented  (C(SA  in dealing with  third
parties in conneccion with those services.
4   Consultants,  contractors  and  suppliers  participated
and/or contributed to the implementation of the project
within the fraievork of the agreement between !MSA and
Bechtel.
(iii) Coordination problems found during implementation.
In general the coordination procedures were appropriate for
all purposes.
One exception was the relationship between Bechtel and a
Colombian consultant firm.
In that relationship there were conf.icts for the following
reasons:
1.  Traditionally that consultant, one of the most qualified
engineering consultants in the country, has worked
exactly  in   the   position   of   Bc-btel,  as   owner
representative before contractors, suppliers and other
consultants and in direct communication with owner.
2.  Bechtel's and consultant's systems to conduct planning,
scheduling and cost control, contracts administratiou,



-7-
field   engineering,   construction   and   procuremnet
services, vere different and this situation required an
adaptation and learning process simultaneously with the
execution of the project.
To avoid the problems created by that situation vould have
required:
Detailed  discussions  betweeu  Bechtel/consultant,   to-
clarify systems and procedures to be used in the job
before the work started.
- Incorporation of some experienced Bechtel staff in the
consultant's organization in the field until those
systems and procedures were clearly understood and
practised.
(iv)    Bank involvement to forralize Loac.
Basically the Bank's role in the design of the project
implementatioa  was  to  provide  assistance  to  formalize
arrangements for the coordination between CKS&, Bechtel,
Hanna and Contract.
(c) Performance of Consultants
C)      In general, consultatnts performance was good.
The only dificulty found during project implementation has
been mentioned in point II (b) (iii).
(d) Performance of Contractors and Suppliers
(i)    Problems found by contractors.
Performance   of  contractors  was  good   with   following
exceptions:
1. One contractor had troubles because of lack of adequate
equipment and know-how to overcome difficulties in
severe weather conditions.
2. One contractor had organizational problems because they
were overextended with the scope of work of their
contract.



-8-
(ii)   tSuStious to avoid problem  suffered by contractors.
Those problems could have bee  avoided by:
1. Here detailed analysis of bids to see What construction
equipment was available in the country.
2. Defiuing that necessary construction equipment to work
under difficult wether conditions bad to be available
in the country.
3. Expediting temporary import licences for that equipmeut
which could be critical in case of those weather
caditions.
4. Sharing between different contractors the scope of work
of any activity whenever there was the possibility that
said activity could have overextended the capacity of
one contractor.
(iii) Examples of lack of performance.
Specific ezamples to illustrate lack of performance by
contractors are:
1. Gas pipeline installation.
At a certain poiAt in the construction activities there
was the possibility that the plant would be completed on
schedule without having gas for the start-up because of
delays in the construction of the gas pipeline.
Therefore, the scope of work of the original contractor
was substantially reduced and a new contractor was
awarded a contract to cover the balance.
2.  Tovwsite Construction.
The contracts L:\ build bouses (excluding prefabricated
and  workers'   houses)   were  awarded  to  only   one
contractor, who simultaneously had other contractual
commitments in the construction of the Plant.
This fact caused delays in the construction of the
townsite and problems in other activities, as pointed
out in III (f) (iii);



-9-
(e) Procurement
Wi)     Procedures.
05.5A employed the following procedures for the purchase of
machinery equipment, materials, and -other goods during the
construction period:
1.  Preliminary Equipment List and Source Categories
Bechtel developed a Preliminary Equipment List and made
an assessement of possible sources.  CXsA and Bechtel
conducted a survey of Colombian Industry to determine
what equipment and material were available from Colombia
fabricators  and  developed  a  preliminary  list  of
Colombian and worLdwide potential bidders for each item
as  appropriatae.   This  list  (a  copy  of  which  was
furnished to the Stockholders) was classified in the
following categories:
* Category I
Bulk materials, mining and process equipment (and
correspond:ng spare parts) which could be purchased
competitively from Colombian fabricators, in compliance
with  specifications,   and  which  was  available   in
sufficient quantities to meet delivery schedules.
Category II
Bulk -aterials, mining equipment, process equipment,
accessories, and spare parts which could be fabricated
in Colombia, but purchased on a worldvide competitive
basis,    wherein    Colambian    fabricatcrs    received
preferential considerations within che limitations of
the Project financing policy.
Category III
-Bulk   materials,   tools   -or   construction   -mining
equipment, process equipment, accessories, and spare
parts which were not available in Colombia and should be
purchased from foreign suppliers.
Category IV
Nop-process equipment and tools required exclusively for
construction which could be either rented or purchased
and could be imported under bond, exempt from ducies and



- 10 -
taxes on the same basis as process equipment but subject
to export or to be otherwise disposed of when no longer
naceded.
In  its  preliminary  form  this  Equipment  List  was
presented to CISA and the stockholders for cornents.
From  time to time the Preliminary Equipment List was
revised 4ad updated and copies of 5uch revised list were
issued by Bechtel and furnished to CHSU and to
Stockholders.
Bechtel prepared an estimate of the cost of equipment
and bulk materials for use by CiSA in projecting loan
requiremements or allocation of equity funds as they
related to funding of purchases in Colombia and from
foreign sources.
At the appropriate time when estimated costs were
assigned to items on the Preliminary Equipment List. and
Bechtel considered that data and information contained
therein was sufficiently developed, OIS& submitted such
List to the Board for approval. After approval by the
Board, significant changes in such List were presented
to the Board for approval from time to time. Based oa
Board approval, CiSA autborized Bechtel to proceed.
On the basis of the Preliminary Equipment List, CISA
with the assistance of Bechtel made applications to the
ninistry   of   mines,   Income%   and   the   Customs
Administration for a Global Import Licence. vith copies.-
to Government agencies, as required.. At this time the
List  was   classified   according   to   the   Brussels
Romenclature.
2. Procurement Procedures and Approvals.
In  general.   procurement   of  machinery,   equipment,
materials, and other goods were carried out as follows;
as Bechtel proceeded with detailed engineering of the
Project, technical specificationz were prepared for each
item, bidders were pre-qualified, bids weze solicited,
suppliers selected,. purchase orders awarded, fabrication
and shipment were monitored and expedited and equipment
imported, all in accordance vith the General Procurement -
Procedures.
These General Procurement Procedures were designed to
provide a broad general framework within which there was
flexibility to- utilize different purchase methods other



- 11 -
than the standard equipment purchase order, such as
negotiated awards and unit price purchases. Bechtel and
rWSA from time to time proposed to the Board for its
approval the use of these special purchase concepts for
specified items, which also were identified in the-
progrw:s and budgets presented to the Board for approval.
The general sequence of steps in the procurement process
was as follows:
2.1   Technical   specifications   for   each   item   of
equipment and a corresponding list of bidders were
submitted by Bechtel to the stockholders for
review and to CKSA for approval, prior to issuing
for bids. Any written comments of CoS& thereon
were furnished to the stockholders.
QISA, taking into account comments from the
stockholders advised Bechtel of its approval or
comment s.
2.2  After receipt of CMSA's approval of the technical
specifications,   Bechtel   incorporated   changes
requested by C1SA and then issued invitations to
bid to pre-qualified bidders.
Copies of complete bid packages and corresponding
lists of bidders were forwarded to CkSA and the
stockholders.
2.3   Imediately   after   receipt   and   opening   of
proposals, Bechtel forwarded copies- directly to
CKSA and the stockholders for information, while
Bechtel   condurted   technical,   commercial,   and
financial    evaluations    and    prepared    its
recommendations   for   award.   Upon   completion,
Bechtel   forwarded   these   to   CKSA   and   the
stockholders.  CISA,  taking  into  account  the
recomendation   of  Bechtel   and   any   comments
received from the stockholders, forwarded its
recommendation for the award of the stockholders
and presented the same for approval by the proper
approving body as follows:
A. Project Manager of OiSA - ItL s under $l00.OOO
B. General Manager of 01SA - items under $500,000
C. EPCC -items over $500,000 and under $2,500,000
D. Board-items over $2,500,000.



- 12 -
2.4   The approving body acted an each purchase order
proposal submitted to it vithin the following
policies and procedures:
2.4.1  Procedures were in effect to assure that
all   required   information  -relative   to
purchases was available to the stockholders
as the information was developed.
2.4.2 The purchase order recoimnndations of
Bechtel and OLSA were furnished to the
stockholders.
2.4.3  The approving body (during the construction
period) held regular monthly meetings.
2.4.4  It was the intention of the stockholders
that decisions with respect to purchase
orders were to be takeu by the approving
body as promptly as possible and in any
event, unless CISA indicated otherwise, no
later than the next regular monthly meeting
following    the    furnishing    of    the
reco mendations as described in (2.4.2)
above. Notwithstanding this  general rule,
which applied to the great majority of
purchase orders, the Parties recognized
that in certain cases it could be necessary
for  the  approving   body  to  act  more
expeditiously on selected purchase orders
because   of   their   importance   to   a
continuation   of   the   conitructioan  in
accordance with the project - schedule, and
for   these   cases   the   two   following
procedures were available.
Emergency orders. Bechtel and QiSA when
furnishing the recommendations as described
in (2.4.2) above certified that a purcbasC
order was an "Emergency order" and provided
an appropriate explanation and in this case
CQSA called a speciaL meeting of the
approving body to act upon such purchase
order with a minimum of 48 hours notice
after furnishing sucb re..ommendations. If
such a purchase order was not rejected at
that  meeting,  CQSA  proceeded  with  the
avarding of the purchase order. It was the



-13-
itntjn3f of the Parties to utilize the
emergency order procedure only in the most
abnormal situations.
Critical  orders.  Bechtel  and  CHSA  when
furnishing the recommendations as described
in (2.4.2) above certified that a purchase
order was a "critical order". If a critical
order was  not rejected by  the approving
body on or before the next regular monthly
meeting of the approving body following the
furnishing of such reco-mendations, QiSA
could any time aftez such second meeting
proceed with the awarding of such purchase
order. It was the intention of the Parties
to utilize this critical order procedure
only 'where the postponement of approving
body action could result in a substantial
cost exposure to the Project.
A purchase order awarded by CMSA under
either the emergency order or critical
order procedures and neither approved nor
rejected by the approving body within the
specified time periods was resubmitted by
-OISA to the approving body as promptly as
possible for confirmation and, in the event
such- order was, not confirmed, any costs due
to cancellation would be for CMSA account.
2.4.5  The Parties,  considering the magnitude of
the investment required for the project and
its importance to the development of the
national and regional economy, made every
effort to act as quickly as possible under
the procedures described above.
2.5   CKSA notified Bechtel of the approved award and
directed that the award be carried out, in whicb.
case Bechtel placed the order with the selected
supplier. At this point application was made to
the Ministry of Mines, Incomex, and the Customs
Ad-inistration for an individual import licence.
2.6   As   detailed   engineering   prcveeded   suppliera
furnished  data  and  detailed  drawings  of  the
equipment  to  be  supplied.   Such  drawings  were
reviewed   by   Bechtel   for   compliance   with
specifications and afesr approval the supplier



- 14 -
certified such drawings and forwarded final copies
to Bechtel for distribution to CISA, and the
stockholders.
2.7   When a  revision  to an approved purchase  order
generated an increase in the approved purchase
priCe (or estimated total value of a purchase
order) and if such increase was more that
$2.500,000 or its equivalent, then such revision
was brought to the Board for approval. When the
amount of an increase in an approved purchase
order was  greater  than  $500,000  and  l.ss  than
$2.500,000, such revision was submitted to the
EPCC for approval. When the amount of an increase
in an approved purchase order was less than the
amount stipulated above or wben the revision to
the purchase price was due to escalation as
provided in the terms of the purchase order, CISA
and the stockholders were kept advised of such
increases  though  the  information  transmission
procedures but it was not necessary to submit such
increases for approval.
2.8   Bechtel's expediters monitored each fabricator for
timely transmittal of certified drawings, purchase
of materials, subcontracting, shop fabrication,
and shipping schedules.
Expediting extended to the shops of subsuppliers
and subfabricators. Bechtel furnished periodic
expediting reports to CISA and the stockholders.
2.9   During the course of manufacturing and prior to
shipment, Bechtel's inspectors examined the goods
for compliance with specifications, quality of
workmanship, comoliance with codes and Vitnessing
tests.    Copies   of   inspection   reports   were.
forwarded   to  CISA  for  record  and  to  the
stockholders.
2.10 When the material was ready for shipment by the
supplier, Bechtel traffic representative assisted
in  determining  the  routings,   monitored,   and
expedited the shipment and, if purchased outside
of Colombia, arranged for ocean shipping space.
2.11 In the case of purchases from foreign suppliers, a
freight forwarder assigned by Bechtel received the
cargo at the port of exit and arranged for storage



- 15 -
or delivery to shipside as required. The freight
forwarder   prepared   and   asseabLed   all   the
documentation   required  by  the   shipper,  the
consignee, and the Colombian customs authorities.
These documents were then forwarded to their
destinations in accordance with the instructions
issued by Bechtel.
2.12 At the port of entry in Colombia, Bechtel or its
agent arranged for unloading the vessel and
shipping the goods via truck, under seal, directly
to the customs zone at Cerro Matoso for clearance.
2.13  Purchase of mining and mobile equipment was made
by CISA, with the assistance of Bechtel.
2.14 Purchases of bulk and consumable materials were
made by CtSA or Bechtel. Procurement procedures
for   such  materials  were  the  same  as  -the
procurement procedures applicable to fabricated
equipment.
3. Cormitment Authority
Items within the approved Program and Budget and having
an estimated purchase price of $500,000 or less were
purchased by Bechtel with the approval of CXSA without
-      further reference to the Engineering,  Procurement and
Construction Co mittee and the Board. Items having an
estimated purchase price of more than $500,000 and less
than $ 2,500.000 required approval of the EPCC. Items
having  an  estimated  purchase  price  of  more  than
$2,500.000   required   approval   of  the  Board.   The
stockholders,   however  were  kept- informed  of  all
transactions reLating to such procurement.
(ii)    Problems with standards and units.
Some problems occurred during construction because of
differences in specifications and units used by different
suppliers in U. S. A., Europe and Japan.
There were no tabulations or lists presenting standards from
different   countries    to   determine   equivalances   -in
specifications for certain materials (hetals, plastics,
lubricants, insulating, etc.).           -
For steels, for instance, there are the standards ASTH, AISI
(USA); JIS (Japan); DIN (Europe); ICONTEC (Colombia); etc.



- 16 -
Sometimes in a document the specifications referred. to
certain standards and in some other document there were
-eferences to some other different standard for the same
material.
To use units according to the International System (SI)
requires mathematical operations to couvert those units to
the traditional units used in every country.
SI system utilizes Newtou, d4eter, Second, Pascal, Joule,
whereas in Colombia the units used are kilogram, meter,
second, Kg/cm2, Xi/hr, etc.
None of these problems had any relation with the procurement
guidelines of the Bank.
(iii)   Some  problems  occurred  during  construction  because  of
differences in specifications and units used by different
suppliers in U.S.A., Europe and Japan.
None of these problems had any relation with the procurement
guidelines of the Bank.
(iv)    One specific benefit that international competitive bidding
provided to QiSA was the obtaining of better prices.
(f) Implementation Schedule
(i)     Comparison between appraisal and actual implementation.
Comparison between appraisal and actual implementation is
shown in table I.
(ii)    Major factors of delays.
Major factors causing delays in the project were importation
time and housing.
(iii)   Actions taken by CMSA to remedy delays.
Actions taken by CQSA and contractors to remedy delays were:
1.  Project  Manager   was  provided  witlh  all  necessary
authority to expedite decisions as mentioned in point
(II) (b) (i).
2.  The scope of work of contractors who were causing delays
was reduced and the job split between two or more other
contractors.-



- 17 -
3. Programs with wore intensive rhythm of work using more
vorkers and equipment to compress the schedules
4_ Close supervision of euployees responsible for obtaining
tbe import licences.
Summarizing, the main achievement on implementation
schedule was that in spite of delays that occurred in
importation of some materials and equipments in the
construction of the houses and in the installation of
the gas pipeline, those delays were properly corrected
and the overall program was not affected.
Importations were finally expedited by CfSA through
action taken by General Manager with the Government.
When the materials and equipments were at the plantsite,
contractors were organized according to acceleration
programs.
To overcome housing problems the contractor giving rise
to delays was reLeased and the balance of that job was
split between other contractors and COSA with Bechtel
intensified supervision.
The  installation  of  the  gas  pipeline  was  timely
completed because CXSA decided to reduce the scope of
work of the original contractor and to engage a highly
qualified contractor to complete the work.
(g)  Capital Cost, Financing and Disbursements.
(i}     Breakdown of actual and estimated project cost.
Information about actual and estimated project cost is
presented in Table 2.
Table 2A presents summarized information about the main
items which caused the difference between the estimate and
the actual cost of the Project.
One additional aud general reason of that difference, which
is not particularly mentioned in table 2A, was the Colombian
contractors productivity.
It vas observed that actutl productivity was better than
expected, but the cost per hour was higher than forecasted.
rhe net result was a 10 to 15% increase in contracts prices.



- 18 -
The principal reasons that cost per hour was higher wer-:
-  host of the qualified labor came from other places far
from Cerro Natoso, and required imcentives to vork at
the plant site.
-  Was necessary to organize works with intensive use of
oVTartime to complete .the job.on schedule.
J6i)    Financing plan.
The   financing  plan  that  was   developed  envisaged  a
combination  of  shareholder  investment  and  third  party
borrowing.
There was a commitment from the shareholders tc contribute
an initial US$25 m increasing to a minimum of US$75 i and
thereafter up to US$ 200 m to the extent that the additional
funds were needed for the project.
Lenders undertook to provide the following:
The World Bank                                    US$  ac.o  X
Eximbank of U.S.                                       12.85 a
Chase Manhattan/Bankers Trust                          12.85 n
Chase Manhattan plus 12 other Commercial Banks,       120.0  m
TOTAL        225.7  m
With the exception of the World Bank loan that carries the
guarantee of the Republic of Colombia the remaining loans
depend on the success of the proj'ect for the repayment of
interest and principal.
The loans were all fully drawn and the full investment of
US$200 u made by the shareholders by mid-1982, the period of
start-up and the period of sharp reduction in the
interuational nickel price.
The cormercial banks agreed to coutribute a further US$30 a
in 1982 on the same terms as their initial loan and agreed
to some deferment of the principal repayments due to them in
1984/85 to the later years of the term  f the loan.  -The
principal shareholders agreed to contribute up to a further
US$44.625 m either as equity or as subordinated debt should
they be r!quired and these funds had all been drawn by July
1983.



- 19 -
(iii)   Follow up system.
By the nature of the loan agreement and shareholder
conitments  the control of the sources  of financing was
straigbt forvard and the follow-up straight forvard.
(iv)    Delays in disbursements.
These delays are shown in table 3.
Retsons for deviations and delays on disbursements by the
Bank were:
1. The loan was not declared effective until July, 1980 and
- most disbursements were therefore obtained via the
reimbursement procedure.
2. The time spent in gathering all supporting documentation
required to obtain reimbursement from the Bank also
caused some delays.
(v)     Problems witb Bank procedures.
The borrower did not experience any problems with Bank
procedures nor encounter any unreasonable delays.
(vi)    Performance of other Lenders.
1. Chase Syndicate Loan.
Good performance
2. Eximbank Loan.
Good performance.
3. Exim related Commercial Loan.
Good performance.
(vii)   Disbursement schedule.
The schedule of drawdowns of the loans is given in Table 4.
III OPERATING PERFORMANCE
(a) Commissioning and Start-Up
(i)     Major problems in start-up and comaissioning.



- 20 -
Dry out and heat up of the electric furnace commenced April
10 1982 with the aid of gas burners followed by first power
'to the electrodes on April 26 1982.
First slag was tapped on May 11 1982.
First uetal was tspped on June 25 1982; this activity was
later than expected due to the gradual loas of the
sacrificial lining in the furnace crucible which resulted in
the need to make an additional 1000 tonnes of Fe-Ni to
replace that volume of sacrificial lining lost.
The following are the major causes of lost production since
start-up through to mid-1983:
1. Calcinine crane hoist motors
During May 1982 it became apparent that there was an
inherent design problem in the two calcine crane hoist
motors.   Repeated  failure  of  these  motors  severely
limited the capacility of hoisting calcine as feed for
the electric furnace. This cendition prevailed through
June and most of July, at which time modified motors
supplied by the vendor resolved the problem. Since then
the calcine crane bas not been a limiting factor in
achieving production 'capacity.
2. Electric Furnace Hetal Tapboles
See section III (d) (ii) 1
.3. Refining
See section III (d) (ii) 4
4. Casting
Sticking pigs and poor quality pigs bave resulted in
poor cast-to-product recoveries.   The main reason  for
this has been a mould-wash application system design not
consistent with the pig mould desiga. In colaboration
with  the  pig  machine  supplier  and  the  mould  wash
supplier the application system has been revised and the
problem of sticking pigs has essent >lly been resolved-.-
The quality of the pigs still requires improving but
overall recoveries have now improved to more acceptable
levels.



- 21 -
5   Ladle burn - throughs and electric furnace rum-outs
On two occassions molten metal has burued through
refining  ladles  causing  damage  to  electrical  and
mechanical components associated with the ASE& refining
system. Carbon boils, resulting in slag and metal splash
into the same components, have additionally caused lost
production.
In the electric furnace, a small run-out occurred at a
metal taphole and two larger rum-outs occurred from one
of the slag taphole areas.
In total, approximately 7 weeks of lost production time
has occurred because of these reasons.
(ii)    Effectiveness of performance guarantees.
As stated above, there were problems with the two calcine
crane hoist-motors. Eovever, the supplier provided modified
motors which have performed satisfactorily.-
(iii)   Cooperation from suppliers during start up.
Response  from  ASEA  in  resolving  start-up  problems  was
initially   not  satisfactory.    Only   after   considerable
pressure had been exerted by QiSA through Bechtel and Hanna
was a =-re positive attitude forthcoming. Even then, their
cooperation fell short of that provided by most other
vendors, a good ezample of Vaich was Elkem. At all times
the response and attitude of the latter company was one of
total cooperation to resolve any problem.
Manpover Developments
(i)     Staffing Recruitment
The following forms of staff recruitment were used.
1. Local Personnel:
1.1   CASA's  officers  visited  locations where  similar
industrial activities to those of OiSA are being
carried out in order to establish contact with
qualified perionnel.
1.2   Interviews  with  candidates  in  different  cicies
following advertisements in local newspapers.



- 22 -
1.3  Advertiseuents in newspapers iuviting all possible
candidates to send in their resues.
1.4   Recruitment  of  cIltidates  through  specialized
agecies.
2. Expatriate Personnel:
Expatriate personnel were mainly hired through. the
services of HAnna.
The =ost successful forms of recruitment were 1.1 and 1.4
(ii)    Training and Development Programs.
The programs were laid out principally on the basis of
requirements of labor to support the development of the
mine,  plant   and   supporting   facilities   taking --into
consideration the following points: -
-  -Educational leveL of the local people
-   Non-mining and nom-industrial tradition of the area.
- 'Technical requirements of the plant.
-   Development of the socio-economic structure of thv area.
-   Use of external training facilities.  For this purpoee
CISA obtained the cooperation of the National training
services (SEN) .
(iii) Training Objectives.
1. Provide  the most efficient way  to  train  Supervisory
Nanagement to meet present and future needs.
2.  Provide the most efficient way to train craftsmen and
operators to meet present and future needs.
3. Assure  an  adequate  supply  of  skilled  tradesmen  in
relation to employment opportunities of QISA.
4. Increase the individual vorker's productivity.    -    -
5. Give the individual worker a greater sense of aecusrity.
6.  Improve employee-management relations.



-23-
7. Elln=nate close supervision because the craftsmen  are
trained to use their initiative, imaginatiot and ability
in planning and performing their vork.
8. Ensure compliance with CXSA's obligations under the
supplemental coucession so that Colombian personnel can
substantially replace the foreign personnel in the
ac.ivities they have been performing.
(iv)    Training Programs.
1. Training for the construction of plant.
* 1.1 In order to provide contractors an essy access to
a skilled and semi-skilled work force a training
program with SENA was started in Moncel bano. The-
courses included the following crafts: -
1.1.1  Electricians (Basic)
1.1.2  Auto Uechanics (General)
1.1.3 Diesel Mechanics
1.1.4  Carpentry
1.1.5 Construction
1.1.6 Welding, etc.
The duration of the courses was from 4-6 montbs.
Sena took about 500 people from Moatelfbaho area.
Almost all were employed by the contractors
building  the  plana.  COSA  provided  financial
assistance to SENA. The training activities lasted
for 1 1/2 years.
2. Training for start-up needs.
2.1   Training in SENA Centers.
Twenty   three   high   school   graduates   from
Montelfbano were sponsored by CISA in July 1980,
to study in the Centc.rs of SENA, Electricity,
General     Mechanics,      Smelting,      Refining,
Instrumentation and Mining at Technician level.
The majority of them are now working with CHSA,.



- 24 -
2.2  Mine Training.
All the training for Kine operators and Kech anucs
was arranged through GENERAL ELECTRIC C=TRPILLAR
of  Colombia.  Xechanics  received  a  six  weeks
course at ,the CAT. installations in 2Barranquilla.
Operators received theoretical and practical "on
the job" training at the site for six weeks, under
the direction of a CAT. Instructor. LIEBRERR
operators and maintenance workers were given on
site training by the LIEBHERK representatives.
Also two maintenance Supervisors took a course in
U.S.A.
One special operator course was given on site by a
CAt. Representative  from Peoria, r. S. A. CSA
Training  Dept.  provided  safety  training  using
audiovisual aids from CATERPTLIAR.  Manuals were
vritten and distributed among operators..
2.3   Plant Operators' Training
This activity included two main phases:
2.3.1 Writiug of Operators Hanuals: In February,
1981, Training Dept. hired or borrowed from
-   other departments five engineers tQ prepare
seven   manuals   of   operation   covering,
Primary Crusher, Stacker, Secondary Crusher
-ad Dryer, Rotary Kiln and Peletizing Disc,
Calcine Transfer, Electric Fur--ace, and
Refining. Since the plant was stiLl under
construction,      the      process       and
instrumentation drawings were used as the
main  source  of  technical  information.
Almost  eight  months  was  required   to
complete the preparation. Most of the
manuals were revised by expatriate staff.
2.3.2  Hiring  and  training  of  operators:   High
school  graduates  from  Montelfbano  were
selected for training as operators. Process
Department hired Supervi-ors - Colombisiai
for the Oreprep area and expatriates from
Guatemala.   Their  first  job  was  the
training   of   their   operacors.    The
supervisors took charge of this training in
October 1981.



-25-
The theoretical part lasted almost three
months with frequent visits to the plant
under construction. In February 1982 all
the operators were put on shift work for
practical and "on the job" training.
The engineers who wrote the manuals were
heavily involved in the training efforts.
2.4' Plant Maintenance Training
It was the intention to hire all craftsmen with as
much  experience  as  possible.   However refresher
courses were arranged, including a one month
course  for General Maintenance  personnel.  SENA
also provided courses on welding and electricity.
Expatriates provided "on the job" training for
mechanics  and  electricians.    Almost  all  our
electricians have considerable experience and
needec only some time to familiarize themselves
iith the plant under the guidance of equipment
vendors.
3.  Safety Training.
Almost  all  the  workers  in  the Hine  and  Plant have
received safety courses of about 2 weeks duration
covering:
-  Safety rules and regulations (Mine and Plant)
-  First aid
- Basic fire fighting
A ten hours safety course was given to all Supervisors
covering:
- Responsibility of supervisors
- Investigation of accidents
- Accident reports
- Instructions to workers
Extensive use of audiovisual aids was made througboutt
training programs.
4.  Training by Vendors.-
4.1   Instrumentation and computer training was given at
the sir.e for four weeks to all Maintenance  and



- 26 -
Control  Room  operators  by_,an  instzuttor  from
taylor  USA.   Two  engineers  attended   OD  TT
I9aintenance courses iu U.S.f. for Ce month.
4.2   General. Electric, U.S.A. provided courses on SCR
Rotors and other equipment.
4.3   CATERPTLTTAR training on heavy equipment (see 2.2
above).
5. Training Abroad.
Over twenty  five QtS&  technical personnel  have taken
training courses or attended seminars and conferences in
differert parts of the world. Similar courses are being
arranged for 1983.
6.  "On the job" Training.
Considering  the new  technology being  introduced  into
Colombia, it was necessary to bring experienced, skilled
staff   from   similar   operations   such   as   E=XI3AL
(Guatemala) to help train tappers and over-head crane
operators.  They started training activities on slag on
11 May 1982 and metal tapping on 26 June 1982.
(v)     Numbers of professio*als trained.
-   MINE         Mining Engineers                 3
Xining Technicians              2
Sbift Supervisors               3
Geologist                       I
ORE PREP ARWA    Control Room Operators          5
Shift supervisors               5
General Foreman                 1
=ELTING AND
REFINING         Control Room Operators          5
Shift Supervisors               2
MAINTENANCE AREA Electrical                       3
Mechanical                      5
Shop                            3
Instrumentation                 5
Computer                        3
(wi)    Number of workers trained.
)4flN.E            taintenance                    24
Operators                     32



- 27 -
ORE PREP.AREA      Maintenace                    12
Operators                    48
SMELTING/REFINING  Maintenance                   30
AND PIG HANDLING   Operators                    155
CENTRAL MAINTENC. Shop                            8
mechanical                    12
Electrical                     6
Instrumentation               16
Brick Layers                  22
SUPPORT SERVICES   Laboratory                     6
Materials                     12
383
(vii)   Obstacles in Staffing.
The following obstacles were encountered during staffing
with Colombian Nationals.
- Local residents from the coastal region were given
preference for policital and socio-econimic reasons. It
was hard to find suitable candidates from the region
because the area is more agricultural thau industrial.
Since the ferronickel smelting operation was new to the
Colombian industry professionals were accepted with
little or no experience, being trained later on the job
by the expatriate staff.
mKnmoledge of the English language was another restraint
in hiring the staff.
It was difficult  to attract established professionals
from other regions of the country because of remoteness
of the area.
(c)  Borrower'-s Organization.
It is the policy of QMSA to train and qualify local personnel to
carry out the jobs required to operate and administer the plant
efficiently.
Changes have been made in CKSA's organization to allov local
personnel to take over most staff positions originally occupied by
expatriates.



- 28 -
(d)  Build   up aof Production and Capacity.
(i)     Projected, bud v ted and actual production build-up.
Table 8 presents the information about planned production
for the second year of operation according to the
feasibility study, the production budgeted, by quarters, for
1983 and the actual productiou build-up.
Reasons for the differences between projected and actual
figures are:
1. The skull plant to recover ferronickel from refining
slag, included in the feasibility study, was not
installed.
2. Up to second quarter of 1983 the ASEA refining system
was a limiting factor to production. This probiem was
then resolved.
3.  In  third  quarter  furnace  reached  design  capacity
demoustrating  ability  to  run  at  full  load  on  a
continuous basis.
4. Production curtailed in fourth quarter due to a major
runout on November 28, 1983.
(ii)    Problems in production build up.-
Major  problems  affecting  production  build  -  up  since
commercial start - up are as follows:
1. l1etal Tapholes
Physical deterioration of the metal taphole blocks in a
short  period  of  time  was  causing  a. potentially
hazhardous situation for both men and equipment.  In
order to maintain the safety of the operation, the
taphole blocks were having to be changed on a frequent
basis; often, it was necessary to take power off the
furnace for several hours, (sometimes one or two days)
to cbange these blocks safely.  There were originally
nine blocks installed in each metal taphole; each block.
is 9   x 9" x 6" deep and has a 50 mm 1ameter hole.
The problem is not unique to Cerro Matoso S. A. It is
being experienced to a lesser or greater degree at moat
ferro-nickel smelters. It is caused by a combination of
thermal shock on the refractory material used, type of



plugging mixture used to plug the taphole after tapping,
metal  composition  and  tempera-ure,  tapping  practice,
general furnace operating practice and, to a minor
degree, erosion of the refrActory by the metal stream.
Many different types of refractory taphole blocks bave
been tried, based on the experience of other operations
and vendor recommendations. OiSA personnel made visits
to other plants, including those in Japan which seem, to
bave  the  best   taphole  life.   From   these   visits
information was gained not only on type of refractory
being used but on preparation and use of plugging mixes,
tapping practices and any other practices which could
conceivably improve taphole block life. Based on this
iAformation  gained  and  on  in-house  experience  and
expertize, the plugging mix originally used has been
changed to a magnesite/tar mix; some types of refractory
tapbole blocks are no longer used, tapping practice
(used of drill and oxygen to open the hole) has been
improved   and   standardized   as   far   as   possible,
experimental water cooling plates have been installed -
around the blocks, more rigid maintenance of the taphole
guns has been implemented- and the metal temperature is
controlled as far as possible.              -.
Tie result has been a greatly improved taphole block
life and a safer operation. The problem has not,
however, been solved completely and a task force, set up
several  months  ago,  continues  to. examine  further
materials and methods which can extend the life of c.ae
*tapholes.
2.  Slag Tapholes
The slag tapholes consist of water cooled copper cones
set into a carbon block, which in turn is built into the
furnace wall. Notwithstanding the cooling effect of the
copper cones, the carbon was corroded away, resulting in
leaks of slag. Additionally differential movement of the
refractory bricks around the carbon block caused gaps to
occur between the bricks and the block, again resulting
in  leaks  of  slag.  Sometimes  che  slag  leak  was
accompanied by metal when the lower two of the four
tapholes vas giving a problem.
Tominimise the problem, the lower to slag tapholes have
been eliminated, and modifications made to the remaining
two as follow.;



- 30 -
2.1   The carbon block has been replaced by a high ngO
material.
2.2   Additional water-cooled jacketing bas been provide
at the interface between the magnesia block and
the surrounding brickwork.
3. Furnace Roof
Loss of castable and brick refrac:ory in the delta area
of the furnace roof, primarily around electrode, charge
pipe and inspection hole openings, was giving rise to
the possible danger of widespread failure of the roof
refractories and support steelvork.
The cause of the problem has not been definitely
established; it appears to be a possible combination of
mechanical   spalling   and   chemical   corrosion.   The-
refractory material used in high alumina, and in this
particular case was manufactured from andalusite rather
than bauxite as the source of A12 03 One body of-
expert opinion asserts that the grains of andalusite are
more susceptible to spalling than bauxite-based grains
and consequently thermal cycling, which has occurred -due
to other  problems, was  the reason for failure. This
opinion was based on samples of failed brick sent to
various  laboratories;  the  samples  indicated  little
chemical attack although visual observation of the roof
in situ indicated at least some surface chemical attack.
Although high operating temperatures have not been cited
as a possible reasoa for the failure, steps have been
taken  to operate  the  furnace under  a more  pcoitive
pressure,  eliminating  any  ingress  of  air  which  can
react with carbon monoxide in the furnace atmosphere and
produce locally high temperatures. This also has the
benefit of maintaining a more uniform brick temperature
across the furnace roof. For this and other reasons, the
aim has been to attain a constant operation, reducing
downtime to a minimun; that is, thermal cycling has been
reduced to the minimum possible. The roof is being kept
clean to avoid build up of dust vhich might cause local
overheating of steelvork supports.                          -
4. Refinery
The length of time being taken to refine a ladle of
crude   ferronickel   was   excessive,   resulting   in
insufficient - refining  capacity  to  meet  production
requirements-



31 -
The ;rocedure :iD.itially envisaged for refining the ASEA
ladle refining system was based on traditional methods
employed in small electric a c refining furnaces. The
kinetics of the metallurgical process and the chemistry
of the slags were not adequate for the COSA unrefined
metal composition.
An  itnv.-sive  metallurgical  program  was  initiated,  in
conjnaction with ASEA, and other consultants, which has
culminated in a metallurgical procedure specifically
designed for QiSA conditions. Additionally, a separate
oxygen blowing test station was constructed which
enabled simultaneous refining activities to proceed,
further reducing overall refining cycle time. Cycle
times have been reduced to levels consistent whith
overall plant capacity requirements although much work
remains to further optimize practices and materials.
5. Stacks
The stacks on the electric furnace became plugged with
dust causing Loss of pressure control in the furnace and
excessive evclution of f:lame above the furnace roof. To
remove the plug, it was necessary to take power off the
furnace and clean the stacks by various methods, all of
which were time consuming.
Dust produced  in the electric furnace adheres to the
refractory lined stacks, gradually closing off the cross
section. Depending on the temperature in the stack, the
dust was either quite soft or very hard; the latter was
sintered   material   resulting   from   locally   high
temperatures and became very difficult to remove. Tests
indicated that ingress of air through the furnace roof
and around inspection doors in the stacks was causing
locally bigh temperatures and sintering. Additionally
certain areas of the stack system were more prone to
plug than others.
To alleviate the problem,  the furnace is nov operated
under a more positive pressure, eliminating ingress of
air; inspection doors have been sealed. Water cooled
sections (not refractory lined) have been installed in
the more critical areas on a test '-sais. On a longer
term basis the dust produced  in the furnace vill be
mainimised by the use of extensions to the charge pipes
inside the  furnace below  the furnace roof.   To-date,
experimentation has not found a material which will
survive the furnace environment for a significant length
of time.



- 32 -
(e) Environmental Effects.
At this moment, the activities of Cerro Matoso S. A. are too recent
to make an analysis of any significant environmental consequences of
the project.
So far only the following points are relevant:
1.  -  CXSA produced its "Environmental Impact Statement" to comply
with  its legal obligation  to 1 ensure the environmental
qualities be compatible vith the productive survival of
vegetable, animal and human species".
2.      Based  on  the  "Environmental  Impact  Statement",  which
ittdicated the type of processing equipment and environmental
control program to be utilized, authorization was obtained
from,  the   appropriate   governmental   entity   to   start
mining-metallurgical activities.
3.      The  following  facilities  to control  pollution have been
installed.
3.1 Air pollution.
3 3.11 Electrostatic  precipitators,  installed after the
dryer.
3.1.2 Scrubbers. One is installed at the inlet of the
kiln and the other collects gases produced in the
refining unit.
3.1.3 Bag houses.  These pollution control  units  are
installed as follows:          -
-   One at the discharge of the secondary crusher.
-   One at the  transfer house of the fine ore
conveyors.
- One at the top.of the coal bin.
-   One at the fine ore bin discharge.-
- One at the balling feed conveyor discharge.
3.2 Water pollution
- Waste Water Treatment Plant for primary and secondary
treatments.



- 33 -
-  Settlizg pond.
- Settling ditch at the base of the bill near farming
and cattle-raising lands.
3.3 leat pollution
There is a settling pond to discharge the water coming
from  the  Process  Plant,  specially  from  the  slag
granulation section, so that the solids in suspension
settle and the water cools down before being poured into
the natural flowing water.
3.4 Noise pollution
In areas withiv. the plant, especially at the west side
of the electric furnace around the cooling fans, wnere
bigh levels of noise are reached -above 85 decibels-
recommended earplugs are used.
* CMSA is engaged in the implementation of the solid
residual3 handling through the use of sanitary waste
disposal.
To check the efficiency of the pollution control
facilities there is a program, which is part of the
"Environmental Impact Statement", which envisages the
installation of equipment to measure emissions and the
establishment of biosensory stations. All this equipment
has been acquired and its installation and calibration
is foreseen within the next three months.
Biosensory stations are functioning and up to the moment
no environmental changes of any nature have been
detected.



- 34 -
IV FIHAZCIAL AND ECONOKIC PERFODMACZ.
(a) Revenues.
Sales            QCSA               Revenue
Volumes       Selling Price
Actual                          M. lbs Ni      US$Ilb Ni             USt 
(US$ 1983)
1982                             1.4           1.55                     2.2
Estimates
1983                            34.8           1.56                    54.3
1984                            47.0           2.01                    94.6
1985                            54.3           2.56                   139.0
1986                            50.3           3.23                   162.5
1987                            47.6           3.52                   167.6
Notes
Estimated volumes assume a build up of scrap ferronickel between
1982 and 1984 whicb is recovered, remelted and refined as necessary
in 1984/85 in additional facilities to be instal-ied in 1983-4.
Estimated prices beyond 1984 are tbose prices required to camble the
company to meet its projected financial obligatious without recourse
to additional shareholders' funds under a .)roposed refinancing
scbeme uuder consideration as of May 1983.
(b) Operating Costs
(i)     Inputs and Utilities
Consumption           Cost / Unit      Cost/Lb Ni
(US$ 1983)       (US$ 1983)
Gas -Ore Preparation - Dryer   1.3 MCF/DtT Ore        1.46 /KCP         0.03
-Rotary Kiln                2.64 MCF/IDT ORE      1.46 /I1CF        0.07
Coal                            6.5  Tonne/100 DLT
-Ore             52/Tonne          0.06



- 35 -
Electric Power-Furnace         520 KWI/IhT Ore       0.042/J1E         0.39
Furnace Electrode Paste        3.5 Kgs/DIHT Ore      0.89 Ks          0.05
Casing    0.4 Xgs/DKtT Ore     0.66 Kg               0.005
Oxygen-Furnace and Refining    6 L/Tonne FeNi        0.53/M3          0.005
Refining- Electric Porwer      168 KM/tome FeNi   0.042/DI            0.01
- Graphite Electrodes  6.267 Kg/Toone FeNi 3.43 /Kg           0.03
- Reagents:
.Lime                80 Kg/Tonne FeNi      0.13 Kg          0.01
.Fluorspar           12 Xg/Tonne FeNi     0.50 /Kg          0.01.
.Aluminu             18 Kg/Tome FeNi       2.28 /Kg         0.05
.FeSi                4  Ig/Tone FeNi      0.86 /Kg          0.005
Ladle Refractory Replacement.
-Basic Refraccories       12 Tounes/Reline-
Every 6 beats     918/Tonne         0.06
-A1203 Refractories        9 Tonnes /Reline-
Every 15 heats    664/Tonne         0.01
Personnel Establishment and Cost
Establishment        Labor Cost/Year/Person
(As From July 83)           US$ 000
Staff - Expatriate        23                      64
- Colombian        257                      23  -
Labor                    402                       8
682
(ii)    Financial projects 1983-88. (Table 9)
The financial projections are expressed in US$ 1983 and
assume uo differential inflation/devaluatiou between the US$
and Colombian peso costs arising over the period of the
projections.
(c) Other Benefits
Other economic benefits of the project include the following:
(i)    Construction of a road from the main highvay to Montelfbano
and the Plant.



- 36 -
(ii)    Rebuilding and paving of the )lontel$bano airport, which h-a
permitted the establishment of comercial setvices.
(iii)   Construction of a housing development adjacent to the town,
intended for company personnel.
(iv)    Expainsion and upgrading of the Xunicipal Hospital.
(v)     Contribution  to provide a stable electric -power for the
mu=icipality and adjacent areas.
(vi)    Royalty advance to finauce the conatruction of water supply,
sever system and the electric power network in Montelfbano.
(vii)   Organization and support of studies related to heaLth and
education in lontelfbano to desiga programs nov in operation.
(viii)  Upgrading of educational establishments of the area.        -
(ix)    Impetus to commerce in Montelfbano through salaries paid by
the Company to its employees and the acquisition of
materials, consumables aud services for construction and
operation of the plant.



TABLE             I
PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE   A CTUA_  -N
1.079                                      1.900                       '                             1.9PZ 
J A_        ON    0  J  F  MP  A  U  J  J                             A  S  O  N  0  JiF  _ MA  U  J  J  A  ION                                                    M O  MA   MI
11-UNtl    IIIg  CC41RACtl                                                                                                                                    l   l          l.  l   l   l   l                                  
~it COLOCMiAS IN(MI19EINdN
j0;. STUN EI
OUIIANiZ AViON-                         -        -              -        --                 - -
ROAD  AND  AINRPOaRT
UTitiTit 3l"SlA9y?1                                                                                                        E TttH
URUANIZATION                                                                                                   -    -  --J -              -4 --  - 4-I 4.
1R0A0  &HP  Ai3POiT-
UIIL IT II 2                                                                                              
5TACKCIIlQ AND BLINOIN*
CALCINNIN                                                                                        -                                                                  
SWiiLTIAO  II hIFSININS                                                                                                                                                                             
AU41LLAAY   UlLDIWIOI
~lpf tr



TABLE 2
SUMIMARY OF PROJECT CAPITAL COST
(In thousands of US$ Dollars)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                                                 A C T U A
LOCAL       FOREIGN      TOTAL              LOCAL            FOREIGN            TOTAL
H in.
Mining Equipment                   -             6.8          6.8               1.9              8.8                10.7
Drilling Deyelopment and
preproduction stripping            2.9           2.8          5.7              3.6              0.3                  3.9
General and Administration         6,7           5.0         11.7             15.2               1.4                16.6
Civil work, installatioa and
Bulk MIaterials                                   _           -                4.1              -              '    4.1
Sub-total (Mine)      9.6           14.6         24.2             24.8              10.5                35.3
Plant
Process Plant Equipment            2.8          39.2         42.0                3.5            50.5                54.0
Bulk Materials                    14.4           8.5         22.9              22.7              8.4                31.1
Distributables                    17.6           3.6         21.2                7.7             9.8                17.5
Furniture                          -            -            -                                   2.3                 2.3
Sub-total (Plant)    34.8           51.3         86.1              33.9             71.0               104,9   0
Gas PIpeline                        1.0          2.0          3.0                6.8             5.8                12.6    1
Plant Hodification                 -             2.5          2.5                1.3             1.7                 3.0
Civil Works, Installation,
Erection                          24.1           5.0         29.1             102.2             17.6               119.B
Engineering and Proj.Services   16.4            28.8         45.2                5.9            15.5                20.9
Freight and Insurance              3.0          13.1         16.1               6.5             15.5                22.0
Duty and Taxes                     2.4          -             2.4               9.3              -                   93
Initial operating expenses         -            -             -                 10.5            17.6         (1)    28.1
Pre-Operating Expenses             9.0          16.0         25.0                9.2            15.2                24.4
Exchange loss dollars sold-net   -              -             -                -                 7.2                 7,2
Total Base Cost       100.3        133.3        233.6              210.4            177.1              387.5
Physical Contingency                8.7          9.4         18.1                -               -                   _
Price Escalation                   11.2         13.9         25.1                                -                   -
Working Capital                      3.6        32.2         35,8                -     (2)        5.6                5.6
Total Project Cost   123.8         188.8        312.6             210.4             182.7              393.1
Interest During Construction        -           2714         27.4               -                34.6               34.6
TOTAL                          123.8        216.2        340.0             210.4            217.3               OM
i~~mnm    .mu...                  m.m.        -      mum.       *     mm...""""'!''"
362         641         100%                492              512               1002
(1) at Harch 31sto 1980
(2) at March 31st, 1982
s~~~~~~~~~~~.



TABLE 2A
PROJECT CAPITAL COST
SUMMARY OF COST VARIATIONS
Description                          Amount exceeded           Remarks
(US Millions)
1.  Interest during construction              7.2              Originally underatimated
2.  Exchange loss                             7.2              Not included in original
estimated ,
3.  Initial operating                        28.1              Not included in original
estimated.
4.  Duties and taxes                          6.9              Originally underatimated
5.  Cas pipeline                              9.6              see Pg. 8, (iii)
6.  Workera housing (Jagus)                   5,0              'Not included in original
estimate.
7.  Townsite and road                        18.0              Originally  understimated
and  problems  mentioned
in pg 8 (iii)
8.  Additional spare parts                    5.               Not included in original
estimate.
TOTAL                         87.0



-   - 40-
TA  LE3
DISUEURSDITS SCEEDULE FOR TEE BANK LOAN
(US $ xlILLIOiS)
Bank Fiscal Year                Appraisal Estimate                Actual
and Quarter                   Period      Cumulative         Period      Cumulative
F.!. 1980'
Oct-Dec.        1979          4.2         4.2
Janw-arch        1980        12.8        17.0               -
April-June       1980        10.0        27.0
P.T. 1981
July-Sept       1980         11.0        38.0           5.7              5.7
Oct-Dec.        1980         10.4        48.4          13.5             19.2
Jan-March        1981        10.4        58.8           4.9             24.1
April-June       1981         6.5        65.3          16.2             40.3
F.!. [982
July-Sept.       1981         4.5        69.8          21.4             61.7
Oct-Dec.        1981          3.8        73.6           9.6             71.3
Jan-March       1982          1.4        75.0           1.5             72.8
April-June       1982         -          75.0           4.6             77.4
P.Y. 1983
July-Sept.       1982         -          75.0           0.3             77.7
Oct.-Dec.       1982          0.5        75.5           1.1             78.8
Jan-mareb       1983          2.0        77.5           0.5             79.3
April-June       1983         2.5        80.0           0.7             80.0



TABLE 4
PROJECT DISBURSMEUNT SCLtEDULE
a) .Barrower's Capital Disbursementa
(us$)
Tho Chase                                      Export-,Import    The Chase ManhattAn
Retf. Letter No.                    Manhattan Bank           World Bank                  Bank          Bank-Bankers Trust
_   .   .   .                                                                 .   .   .~~~~~. 
FNB-3111      Oct.   29,  1981       83.745.904.23
FNB-3105      Oct.   29,  1981                                 3.322.676.35
FNB-3106      Oct.   29,  1981                                                       3.011.171.75
FNB-3107      Oct.   29,  1981                                                                           3.011.171.75
FNB-8640      Jul.   12,  1982        8.776.506.11
FNB-8641      Jul.   12,  1982                                 6.708.688.74
FNB-8643      Jul.   12,  1982                                                       4.864.848.77
YNH-8642      Jul.   12,  1982                                                                           4.864.848.77
FNIB-8713     Jul.   16,  1982        6.285.466.94
FNHB-8707     Jul.   16,  1982                                                       4.965.354.48
FNB-8708      Jul.   26,  1982                                                                           4.965.354.48
FNB-8829      Jul.   26,  1982                                 10.960.634.87
FNB-8941      Ausu.   4,  1982       21.192.122.72
FN -8940      Augu.   4   1982                                 10.242.025.77
FN -8952      Augu.   4,  1982                                  8.967.600,43
FM -8953      Augu.   4,  1982                                 10.144.048.90
FN -8951      Augu.   4,  1982                                 24.559.014.15
FN -9188      Au&u.  20,  1982                                  2.737.102.36
F1B113 9805  Sept.  24,  1982        14.003.578.04
FNB/13 9865  SEpt.  29,  1982         5.196.421.96
FNB/13 102'9 Oct.   27,  1982                                   (130.027.72)
FNB/10507    Nov.   17,  1982         5.000.000.00
FN/11019      Dec.   30,  1982        5.000.000.00
FNB/14 11018.Dec.   30,  1982                                   1.087.679.12
?N-12412      Apr.   12,  1983                                    840.847.15
FNITB 13627   Jul.   12,  1983                                    559.709.88
Total Draw-Down                      150.000.000.00            80.000.000.00        12.841.375.00        12.841.375.00



-42-
TABEU 4
PROJECT DIS UESEET SCHEDULE
b) Sha-reholder' s Capital Cash Contributions
Us$
Initial Investments                                            27,005,002
Marbch,    1979                                                    333.334
August,    1979                                                  2,096,000
October,  1979                                                    400,000
November, 1979                                                   8,466,666
January,  1980                                                  3,100,000
Febtuary,  1980                                                 5,900,000
March,     1980                              -                  10,500.000
April,     1980-a                                               4,412,704
May,       1980                                                 4,986,056
June,      1980                                                  7,800,000
July,      1981                                                 10,833,334
August,    1981                                                 10,833,334
September, 1981                                                 bO,833,334
October,   1981                                                 15,000,113
November,  1981                                                 15,000.113
Tebruary, 1982                                                  26,699,940
April,     1982                                                 14,679,091
May.       1982                                                  9,786,058
une,.     1982                                      .          11.335.495-
Total Shareholder's Capital Investment              200,000,574
TOTAL a) + b)                                       455,683,324



TABLE  5
PROJECT MANAGEMENT. ORGANIZATION CHART
BOMD OF DIRECTORS
C. M. S. A.
[GENERAL MANAGER-
I  C. M. S. A.       . 
1 1 1 1    1                                       PROJECT  MANAGER1
PROJECT  MANAGER                 - -      --   -   -       PRIME CONTRACTOR
C. M.  S.  A.J                                                             I
TECHNICAL      1                                     _                       PRIME  CONTRACTOR
CONSULTANT                      ,ZRA RY                                     ORGANIZATION
PROJECT       1                   1CONSTRUCTION                                                 CONTRACTORS        1
ENGINEER                     .      SUPERINTENDENT  .                 .                        CONSULTANTS
.                  ..1.
MECHANICAL:      CIVIL            MECHANICAL       FILE              ELECTRICAL
ENGiNEER         ENGINEERS        ENGINEERS         CORDINATOR       ENGINEER         SECRETARY        JANITOR



- 44 -
EIITIM    FdRECAt
ITEM  DESCIP`TCIN              SCIEDMLE  SC5EDUZ        NA 3       ACTUAL
START CONSTRUCTION                                                                    10/16/80
START TACASALUMA AREA CONSTRUCTION                03/15/80                            05/23/80
START DRIVING PILES - FUMlACE AREA                03/15/80                            02/27/80
STAM  PAIMANA AREA CONSTRCN                       04/15/80                            06/05/50
START DRIV'ING PIlE  - KILN AREA                  04/25/80                            04/16/80
(=OCRETE FOR PILES CAR - FURNACE AIEA             05/20/80                            08/27/80
CONCRETE FOR DRYER FOUNDATION                     06/15/80   10/27/80                 10/27/80
START OF CONCRETE FOR PILES CAP - RILN AREM       06/20/80   10/01/80                 Ob/25/80
CONCRETE FOR PRIMARY CRUSHER FOUNDATION           07/15/80   10/27/80                 10/23/80
START STRUCTURAL -STEEL SMELTER BUILDING          08/01/80   10/20/80                 10/11/80
START FURXACE INSTALLATION                        08/01/80   01/07/80                 02/24/80
START KILN INSTALLATION - BASE PLATES             08/15/80   01/07/81                 03/04/80
ACCESS ROAD COMPLETE                              03/31/80   10/17/80                 09/15/80
BECHTEL & CM5A OFFICE BUILDING COMPLETE           09/01/80   12/13/80                 09/08/81
CONCRETE FOR DRIED ORE STORAGE FOUNDATION         09/01/80   12/08/80                 01/21/81
CONCRETE FOR STACXING & BLENDING FACILITY FOUND. 09/15/80   12/01/80.                 03/30/81.
CONCRETE FOR CRUSHING & MIXING BUILDING FOUNDAT. 09/21/80   12/08/80                  12112/80
START DRYER INSTALLATION-                         11/01/SQ   02/01/81                 03/21/81
START STRUCTURAL CRUSHING & MIXING FACILITY       01/02/81   03/09/81                 02/03/81
START KILN-SSELl ERECTION                         01/13/81   02/15/81                 05/13/81
START STRCCTURAL STEEL FOR DRIED ORE STORAGE      01/15/81   03/09/81                 03/07/81
START STRUCTURAL STEEL FOR BALLING & CALCINING FA 02/01/81   04/06/81                 06/12/81
START STRUCTURAL STEEL FOR STACKING & BLEND. FAC. 03/01/81   05/04/81                 08/29/81
START PRIMARY CRUSHER INSTALLATION                03/17/81   06/15/81                 07/06/81
START MNVEYORS - MECHANICAL INSTALLATION          05/15/81   05/04/81                 08/29/81
START TRAVELLING STACXZR INSTALLATION             07/01/81   07/27/81                 07/23/81
START REFINING SYSTEM INSTALLATION                08/15/81   08/24/81                 09/27/81
START PRE-OPERATIONAL TESTING                     09/15/81   11/02/81                 10/19/81
PRIMARY CRUSHER FACILITY COMPLETE                 12/31/81   12/28/81                 01/16/82
MAIN SUBSTATION READY FOR EXERGIZATION            01/15/82   12/15/81                 02/20/82
STACXING & BLENDING FACILITY COMPLETE             02/01/82   12/17/81                 01/16/82
CONVEYOR SYSTEM CO.UPZTE                          02/01/82   01/25/82                 02/20/82
CRUSHING & -MIXING FACILITY COMPLETE              02/15/82   02/15/82      03/06/82
DRYING FACILITY CO.LAZTE                          03/01/82   02/15/82      03/15/82
BALLING & CALCINING FACIL"-Y COMPLETE             03/15/82   03/19/82      03/15/82
SMELTING & REFINING FACILZTY COMPLETE             03/31/82   03/19/82      03/27/82
PIANT RE:aZ! TO ACCEPT FEED                       04/01/82   04/01/82      04/01/82
START TACASALUMA PREFABRICATED HOUSES                                               06/02/80.



TABLE 7
CERO HATOSO NICKEL PROJECT                                              I
EQUIPMENT- AND HATERIAL PROCUREMENT                        U.
ITE1S PROCURED UNDER WORLD BMNK LOAN



Purchase Order ,
No,.                             Description                     Value US$(1.0O)   Country of Origin
C-201               structural Steel and Hiscellaneous Metal        4.612               JAPAN
C-201               Structural Steel and Miscellaneous Metal          522               JAPAN
C-202               Reinforcing Steel                                 247               USA
C-202               Reinforcing Steel                                 326               USA
c-i06               Metal Decking                                     119               USA
C-213               Protected Metal Roofing and Siding              1.032 ,             USA
C-220               Unfabricated Steel                                949               JAPAN
SUB - TOTAL             7.807                    5
E-001               M1ajor Electrical Equipment                     4.291               USA
E-009               4.16 KV. Diesel Generators                        789                USA
E-010               Main Substation Hardware                          143                USA
E-014    .          Instrumentation Cables                            176                USA
E-017               Cable Trgy and Fittings                           568                COLOMBIA
E-019               Battery and Charger                                25                USA/UNITED KIZNDOI1
SUB - TOTAL             5.992



Purchase Order
No.                                Description                    Value US$(1.000)        Country of Origin
F-5                   150 Ton Low Boy Trailer                          180                  USA
F-7                   Rubber Tired Self Propelled Compactor             31                  USA
F-8                   Rubber Tired Forklifts                           112                  USA
F-9                   Mobile Cranes                           .        812                  USA/U.K
F-9                   SB-W4 Hovile Hidraulic Boon Crane                 99                  USA
.                * ~~~~~~~~~~~.9
F-24                  Welding Mlachines                                 50                  USA               I
?-28                  Flatbed Truck                                    165                  USA               s
F-36                  Truck Tractor for 150 Ton Low Boy                155                  USA
SUB - TOTAL          1.604



Purchase Order
No.                              Description                       Value US$(1.O00)   Country of Origin
M-101                 Rotary Dryer ; 5.5 m diam; 45 m long             2.452             USA/Denmark/Japan/Others
M-102                 Reduction Kiln ; 7.2 m diam                      9.032             USA/Denmark/Japan/Others
M-103.                Balling Disc                                       334             USA
M-104                 Electric 6melting Furnace; 51 HVA.               8.407             Norway/Others
1H-105                Refining Crane                                     692             FINLAND
11-106                Primary Crusher                                    312             USA
14-107B               Miscellaneous Refractory                            29             MEXICO
}1-108          .     Travelling Stacker; Rail Mounted                 1.174             JAPAN                    c
M-109                 Belt conveyor                                    1.484             USA
M-110A                Conveyor Belting                                   304   ,         JAPAN
I4-lIOB               Stacker Conveyor Belting and Belt Rip              203             USA
Detector
M-111                 Reciprocating Feeder                                26             USA
14-112                Electrostatic Precipitator                       1.246             CANADA
M-113                 Screw Conveyors & Dust Valves                       97             COLOMBIA
t1-116                Apron Feeders                                      410             USA
14-118                Secondary crushers; Impact Type                    249             WEST GERMANY
M-119                 Tramp Iron }Magndtu                                 21              USA
.~~~~~~'



PL'rcha66 Order
No.                                    Description                       Value UO$ (.000)  Country of OriRin
H1-120                 Vibrating Screens,                                        86             USA
H-121                   Hydraulic Breaker                                        61             CANADA
11-122                  Sampler Systems                                         190             USA
M-123                   h1oists and Cranee                                      104             USA
11-123                 Ihoists and Cranes                                       820             USA/COLOMBIA
M-124                   Baghouses                                               131             USA
It-125                 Air Conditioning and Ventilation Equipment               192             USA
H1-126                  Slurry Pumps                                             27.            USA
H-127                   Thickener Mechanism                                      47             USA
M-129                   Vertical Turbine Pumps                                  321             USA
M-130                  Mud Mixer                                                 30             USA
t1-133.                 Fuel Oil Pumps                                           29       ,     USA
M-134                   Twin Paddle Mixer                                       131             USA
i1-135                  Centrifugal Fans                                        410             USA
M1-136                  Air Compres8orsi                                        167             USA
11-137                  Kiln Dust Collector, Wet Scrubber                        121            USA



Purchase Order
No.                               Description                        Value US$ (l.000) Couitry oE Oriftin
tS-139'                Cooling Tdwer                                          49           US&
M-141                 lhorizontal Contrifugal Pumps                           39           USA
h-t43                  Pig Casting Machine                                   574           US&
M1-144                 Expansion Joints                                       70           USA
H-l45                  Scales (Truck Scales)                                  15           USA(COLOMBI!
H1-146                 Strapping Machine                                      18           USA
H-147                  Freiglht Elevator                                     155           v. cEBMAMY
H-148                  hleavy Gauge Ducting                                  667           USA.
M-149                  Refining System                                     4.029           SWEDEN
H-161                  Spiral Classifier                                     147           USA
H-200                  Valves                                                146           USA
H-201                  Carbon Steel Yard Piping                              605           VENEZUELA/USA
H -202                 PVC YARD PIPING                                        so50         USA
H-203                  U/G Yard PLping Carbon Steel Fittings                   77          JAPAN
H4-204                 Above Ground Carbon Steel Piping                       124          JAPAN
H-205                  Above Ground Carbon Steel Fittings                     92           USA
t5-301                 Machinp Toole                                          471          USA/SPAIN/SWEDEN



Purchase Order.
No.                                Description                        Value US$(1.000) Country of Origin
M-302                    fleat Processing Equipment                            40          COLOMBIA
* -303A                  Welding Equipment                                     15          USA
M-303B                   Welding Equipment                                     10          USA
t1-305                   Automotive Repair Equipment                           29          USA
M-305                    Autoumotive Repair Equipment                           4          JAPAN
.1-310                   Miscellaneous Slhop Equipment                        '27          USA
H-401                    Laboratory Equipment                                 112          USA/W. GERMANY
M-402                    Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer                   53          USA
M-403                    Gas Chromatograph                                     44          USA
SUB - TOTAL                US$  37.001



Purchase Order
No0.                                 Description                      Value US$         Country of Origin
E-019                                  Spare Parts                            2           USA
F-7                                    Spara Part-                            4           USA
F-8.                                   Spare Parts                            6           USA
M-103                                  Spare Parts                            28          USA
M-104                                  Spara Parts                             4          FRANCE
M-104                                  Spare Parts                            22          USA
M-104                                 'Spare Parts                            28          Japan                   I
LAt
M-104                                  Spare Parts          .                 11          Finland
M-105                                  Spare Parts                            82          Finland
M-IU6                                  Spare Parts        .                   30          USA
M-108-   .                             Spare Parts                            78          JAPAN
M1-109                                 Spare Parts                           155          USA
tI-1 OA                                Spare Parts                             6          CANADA
M1-111                   @Spare Parts                                          4          USA
M-116                                  Spare Parts                            34          USA
M-118                                  Spare Parts   .                         6          W. GERMANY
t1-119                                 Spare Parts                             I          USA
M-120                                  Spare Parts                            10           USA



Purchase Order
No.                                    Description                       Value US$.          Country of Origin
}1-121                                  Spare Parts                              4            CANADA
M-122                                   Spare Parts                              6            USA
11-12 3A                                Spare Parts                              8            USA
M-123B                                  Spare Parts                             39            USA
Ml-124                                  Spars Parts                              6            USA
1i-125                                  Spare Parts                              1            USA
M1-127                                  Spare Parts                              3            USA
M1-129                                  Spare Parts                             14            USA
11-130                                  Spare Parts                              3            USA
M-134                                   Spare Parts                             13            USA
lt-135                                  Spare Parts.                            28            USA
1-136                                   Spare Parts                              8            USA
1-139                                   Spare Parts                              1            USA
M-141                                   Spare Parts                              2            USA
1-143                                   Spare Parts                             46            USA
t1-145                                  Spare P,arts                             6            USA
H1-146                                  Spare Parts                              4            USA
ti-149                                  Spare Parts                            672            SWEDEN
H1-206                                  Spare Parts                             12         ,  USA
SUB-TOTAL           1.387



CAS PIPELINE
Purcihase Order
No.                                 Description                       Value US$          Country of Origin
300-J-1'               Pressure Relief Valvas                                  6           USA
300-J-2'               Pressure Valves                                          1          USA
300-J-4                Sphere Detector                                          I          USA
300-L-1                Electric Resistance welded Pipeline Kainline    .1.114    .    JAPAN
300-L-2                Valve                                                  33           FRANCE
300-L-3-SA             Valves                                                 27           CANADA
300-L-3-5BC            Hinged Closures                                          2          USA
300-L-4                Insulating Joints                                        3          W. GERHANY              L
300-L-5                Sphere Launches, Receivers and Spheres                  10          USA
300-L-6-SA             Pipe Flanges and Fittings                               18          France
300-L-6-SAC            Pipe Flanges and Fittings                                2          USA
300-L-7                Casing seals and Insulators                              I          USA
300-L-8                Skid Mounted Metering Station                           86          USA
300-L-9                Skid'Mounted Pressure Reducing Station                 121           ITALY
300-L-10               Polygthylene Tape Coating                              125          USA
300-L-11               Cleaning Scrapers                                        1          USA
300-L-12               Spare Parts                                              2          USA
300-P-1                Cathodic Protection MAterials                           i7          USA
SUB - TOTAL        .           1.570
.                                                                 . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



B U H A R Y
SUB - TOTAL       C                                             7.807
SUB - TOTA        a                                             5.992
SUB - TOTAL       Y                                             1.604
SUB - TOTAL       H                            1               37.001
SUB - TOTAL SPARS PARTS                                         1.387'
SUB - TOTAL PIPELINE                                            1.570
GRAND TOTAL                                                   5.361



TA5LE 8
PIOJECTED, SUDOUTD AND-ACTUAL PRODUCION BUILD-UP
Dry Hetric Tons Orec                       Plant Recovery          IProduction 5Meot 1000 round. of Nickel
.______uarter                  .                Quarter                           Q9!rter
1        2        3         4        Total      .1       2       3       4              _ 2       3       4       Total
1: Fesibvility Scudy   _         _        _        _             680  0.900  0.900   0.900   0.900               - _              _      U.11S
(1.9)6)                 _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _     ----                             -                                                 
2. Budget (1983)       165.7     193.9,   199.8    200.8         760  0..90 0.890   0.890   0.890    7.283    0.6U0   9.S52   9.929   35.64?
3. Actual (1983)       103.642   114.493  201.055  134.7A0  553.970  0.756  0.730 I.812   0.692    4.923 A.6l3  11.061   7.089   23.137
Eatimate for December 620.000 Pounds



-57 -
TABLE 9
.FINACIAL PROJECrIONS FOR THE NEUC FIVE YEARS
NM                    p10s       "a8      IT1       190       3901     I"1?                                       Wm601     Jul3    3114       gm3       nu1       My
ask                      W            La    Li?6     L eI11  i    s 5.22  1.1             SMU  -l4.3 4 9                                       11.50   -lV."    413.10
la FFUl                616      31.3      31.3     31.3     37.3      17.3               aulI..0                                    251       0.50     21.d.o    G36.
107 PM31            ?4          482h6    3543      59682    4152      31313UI                                             -31.00   -31.00    -30.0    -33.0    -30.00
offLmmI                 off        14        M6       os*     too       I"                V3-2E                            2."    -V1."    -11.114  -23.0    -20.00
IMC=? PIkI jWdN       MZRE       MI    -3401    -4017           0         I                  -13.13311 3                  -I.20     4.30     -L  -1.40   4       -1.40
9233        CIII      Tqg5      40713    56123    6349       "M35     I=                     -mIL1C3                        4-1      -3.60    -6.9      -5.3      -4.30
h1.Mj1u.             t14M1       2421        g        I         o        o                   -if#lJW  1006                 -3.29    -3.30    -,.20    -6.94    -L7.O
PMBI 0f               TatLl    42014 *  592        M513      609       553 V711Ta rim                                       OJO       L."      L.0      -4.2      -9.23
83.IUS    -      U~~ILIS   34.3       4a      54.1      50.3     47.8 
IISwuJz.                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.  -4I  -M   7.6  CLI
Wtum                   .         LI?       L .17     3.27     0.21     0.21
H_z_                             CI o.  ' 0.4        .  0.17 423       #.23              1UFIUSSI-                         2.0 -66            2.0        10        37
@s2 SU. 230                                Lo0t      LII      La2      LIZ                we3 I~t-F                         cV.0      30.5     3a.m.   25.00   -30.00
Wl6WEUIll -IN!."5*                        -E1.6        StI   -1.0       LS
am-                 LM2                                                               in..eu-,aIAlIsa
-  --                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-WC  M ~  -T."o    -1.9    -3.13     _L -1.1    .6
31 4          441 1L              .40              *   W.352                                    45g-    311       .00         0.00LO
9=  Gpi=      ZLIf    34-40    31-40    34.0        34.00              -1.
ox=~I                            0.OG      0.06     L34       340      540                                                  3.       -L30    40.40      -94.4    -L0.
-     -                  -                 ULISZS~~~~~~~~~~~~~-12 am6         L40      0.40    A.0       .3.00      0.00
-033    -1.30      22.00.    L.O     0LO                 -amE                              -1.00      0.64     L6        LOG0    0.00
.L"      M109     91130    12-"      11.10              TOLYALIX-IMPl~                  --2t.70    -7.80      7.50    -3.6       -1.0
-    -    -   --~~~~~~~~~~~~~mkr=-M-Vo   120U" R
I1~~~~~~                 1~~~.U.40    4210    -3.90   - 3.10   330                   -5                                                 L21
Wins.  -  3.00      3.00    3~~~~~~~~~~~~ff    -~~~~  ~~           5)W3 IlL.                         4L0       540   *  L.2D       8.90     7.7
omrk                   ~~~~~23.5    23.10   17.40    24.40    20.f60I                                                        -W       -.9        Z60 -A
zaiin                   0~~~3.40    23.00    27.3   2.00      21l8 179                                               LOO5 1.  5.5       L.0      L42       LOD
~~X.32T.    Lull                                                                  3l0C~~'LD  Le  lo  S  1A2.23    LOD6    L.0        LO.0      0.00      0.00
-15                                                                 la 611.- 12.21LO1LG?.0
LM  6.0  LOD  0.00  LO             =JLUL            ~        ~        .0     -.00      1L4    2360 -3.9
L.0    3LO4         0.06     0.00     3.30                                                           -0.06ULMLO L  -16.1    -to."0   -I."0
L0.0     L2.       L   1.40 10 L01O9
L .7             L.6       L490     3.40      440                 KrSLK42      11061                                  -O       -I?    -L
331.9213  0.40      1.30     640      6.00      4.60                  u~~~~~~~~~~~~~METIorM6IL06               Q.30    46.40   37.00    34.06
0.26  L38  L40  1.40   2.40                                             -~~~~~K s iswc,  L  4-3  -.8       -Q    -.L1
0.06  3.06  1.44  1.40  1.06  ~~~~~~~O   SNMEII                               L7.4     La.    -#-l0    -019   -wLa



-58-
PART 2
I.        PRODUCTION BUILD-UP AND PLANT CAPACITY
2.01      Actual production build-up during 1982-83 was at a much. lower
rate than that estimated in the SAR. During 1982 (the first eight months
of operation) actual production only reached 8% of effective annual
capacity1/ compared with 66Z assumed at appraisal.2/ During 1983,
however, there was a substantial increase in outputi and saleable production
stood at 58% of effective annual capacity, contrasting with the SAR
forecast of 82% for the same year. Most of the difficulties faced by CMSA
for achieving higher ferronickel outputs during this period, have been
related to reaching a stable and continuous operation of the electric arc
furnace, and to constraints in the refinery capacity. The specific
technical difficulties are described in 1-III. (d).
2.02      Additionally, after extensive testing it has become apparent that
the refining section does not have sufficient capacity to handle both crude
metal from the electric furnace and metal recovered from slags, scrap and
off-spec material, thus limiting the effective overall capacity of the
installations to about 42 million lbs of nickel per year, equivalent to
about 84% of annual capacity. To remedy this bottleneck, CMSA is
contemplating additional investments of about US$20 million in the refining
section, including an off-line oxygen station, an 5 MW arc furnace for
re-smelting and refining scrap and a ferronickel recovery system from
slags. A shotting machine is also contemplated to enable the marketing of
ferronickel in shot form, in addition to the cast pigs now produced.3/
II.       NICKEL PRICES
2.03      Actual prices in the international market showed wide
fluctuations during the period 1978-1983. The table below compares the
official Bank nickel price projection at the time of appraisal (EPD, Report
No. 814/78) and the forecast estimated in the SAR with the actual prices.
1/ Effective annual capacity is taken as 49.8 million lbs. of nickel
contained in ferronickel (Section 1.01(f) Loan Agreement).
2/ It should be noted that start-up of the plant took place in May 1982,
practically on the original schedule.
3/ This investment was subsequently revised downwards as a consequence of
reduced refining requirement by producing a higher grade ferronickel.



-59-
Nickel Prices 1978-83
(US$ per lb. current terms)
EPD Projection a/           SAR        Actual
1978                2.20                 [2.00]        1.93
1979                2.39                 [2.241        2.56
1980                2.60                 [2.48]        3.08
1981                2.88                 [2.721        3.05
1982                3.25                  2.96         2.33
1983               [3.60]                 3.27         2.18
t ] interpolated values.
a/ Report No. 814/78
2.04      Although the estimates used in the SAR are somewhat more
conservative than the official Bank projections, they still led to
overestimated levels during 1982-83, the first two years of operations.
The deterioration of prices after 1981 appear not only to be due to a sharp
short-term contraction of demand, but also to long term excess in plant
capacity.
2.05      Current projections of nickel price compared with those assumed
in the SAR (adjusted to 1983-terms) are shown in the table below.
Projected Nickel Prices 1984-1995
(US$ per lb. - FOB Cartagena, Colombia)
Appraisal Estimate                 Present Projection a/
1983-terms   Current terms          1983-terms   Current terms
1984            2.69            3.61                2.25            2.32
1985           2.81             3.99                2.32            2.59
1990           2.73             5.15              2.60-3.00       3.70-5.00
1995           2.59              -                2.80-3.50       5.00-7.80
a/ Staff estimates
2.06      The underlying assumption behind the nickel price projection
estimated in the SAR was for prices to remain fairly constant in real terms
during the period 1984-95. The present price projection for the short-term
(1984-85), is estimated to be some 17% lower than the price levels assumed
in the SAR for those years, for prices expressed in 1983-terms.  The
present assessment of the long-run trend in nickel prices is that these
will show increases in real terms at average annual rates, ranging between
2% and 4% during the period 1985-95.4/ The lower end of the ranges in the
4/  The basic assumption behind this increase in real terms is the
re-establishment of price levels in line with long run marginal costs
of production, deriving from a balance between supply and demand. The
ranges in the long-term projection are explained by the uncertainty in
the time required to reach the balanced supply/demand situation.



-60-
present long-term projection leads to price levels, in real terms, not
substantially different from the SAR assumptions.
2.07      Presently, nickel prices for 1984 and 1985 are estimated, in
current terms, at levels about 35% lower than those projected in the SAR
for the same years. This affects the internal cash generated by CMSA,
which is expected to be substantially lower than the appraisal estimates.
In its Completion Report CMSA projects for 1984 a price which is well in
line with present market prices. For future years, however, the Company
has not prepared a projection of future nickel prices. Its approach has
been to determine (during 1985-87) the nickel price required to achieve a
cash break-even position, including debt service. Meeting this objective
would require prices to increase by about 25% in current terms both during
1985 and 1986. This is regarded as unlikely, and CMSA would most probably
need to seek additional financing during those years.
III.      FINANCING PLAN
2.08      The financing required by the project, until the end of 1982,
totalled US$455.7 million, compared with US$320.5 million estimated at
appraisal. The additional requirements of US$135.2 million, originated
from capital cost overruns (US$112.9 million) and cash flow deficiencies
during initial operations (US$22.3 million). The latter derived from
production buildup at a lower rate than anticipated and lower nickel
prices. The table below compares the financing plan foreseen at appraisal,
up to the end of 1982, with the actual situation.
Cerro Matoso - Financing Plan 1979-1982
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual
Equity                          114.0 (36%)         200.0 (44%)
Long Term Debt
- IBRD                           80.0 a/             80.0
- US Ex-Im                       25.6                25.7
- Chase Syndicate               100.9 b/            150.0
Sub-total                  206.5 C64x)          255.7 (56%)
Total                       320.5               455.7
a/  Last disbursement totalling about US$1.4 million actually completed in
July 1983.
b/  The original Chase Syndicate loan was for up to US$120 million.  This
figure represents the staff estimate (at appraisal) on disbursements up
to end of 1982.



-61-
2.09      By the time the plant was about to start up (in March 1982), CMSA
was forecasting financing requirements in excess of the funds committed to
the project by the shareholders (up to US$200.0 million)5/ and the lenders
(up to US$225.6 million), totalling US$425.6 million. ti order to close
the financing gap, CMSA negotiated with the Chase syndicate to increase its
loan by US$30 million (from the original US$120 million), and a
rescheduling of repayments, reducing principal payments falling due during
the period 1984-86. Additionally, CMSA's two major shareholders
(representing the Colombian Governaent and the Shell Group) made a
contingent subordinated loan of US$44.6 million. The Bank agreed to the
arrangements proposed by CMSA in July 1982, and the legal documents were
modified accordingly.
2.10      In early 1983, it became apparent to CMSA that given the
difficulties experienced in achieving the planned production levels (paras
2.01-2.02) and the depressed market situation (para 2.03), additional
financing would be needed even after fully utilizing the contingent
subordinated loan from the major shareholders mentioned above. Originally
CMSA sought a rescheduling of maturities of long-term loans, a new loan
from the Chase syndicate of up to US$80 million,6/ and a supplemental loan
from the Bank to finance the additional investments in the refining section
(para 2.02). These arrangements did not materialize basically because CMSA
(and the shareholders) could not reach agreement with the lenders on
commitments for additional equity contributions. Consequently, interest
payments due to all lenders in August 1983 were not met by CNSA. The
Government, as guarantor, covered CMSA's obligations with the Bank, while
the other lenders granted a 30-day extension, upon which payments were met
with additional contributions from the shareholders. In early 1984,
arrangements for providing the additional financing required had not been
finalized and the first maturity (and interest payments) on the Bank's loan
due on February 15, 1984 was again met by the Government as guarantor,
while CMSA requested an extension of 60 days to service the debt from the
other lenders. The company is currently planning to cover the additional
financing required with contributions from the shareholders.
IV.       FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
2.11      In the SAR, the pre-tax financial rate of return was estimated at
17%.  On the basis of actual project capital costs and estimates for future
operating costs and net revenues based on the nickel price projections
(para. 2.05), updated cost and benefit streams have been prepared. The
financial rate of return is now estimated to range between 2% and 7%,
associated with the lower or upper end of the range for the long-term
5/ The shareholders had the obligation to provide a limited amount of
funds, to cover cost overruns, until completion date (i.e., when CMSA
met certain production and financial tests). This obbligation was
actually met well in advance of completion date.
6/ The proposed new loan from the Chase syndicate, was to be (i)
subordinated to the existing long-term loans; (ii) senior to the
shareholders' subordinated loan; and (iii) to be guaranteed by the
principal shareholders.



-62-
nickel price projection. The main factors affecting the significant
reduction in the financial rate of return are the capital cost overrun and
higher operating costs than those projected at appraisal. To a lesser
degree, nickel prices during the early lears of operation and the rate of
production build-up also contributed.
2.12      The capital cost overrun, excluding fluctuations in working
capital, amounted to US$110.7 million in current terms, corresponding to a
40% excess over the appraisal estimate. However, when actual capital costs
are expressed in April 1979 prices, the overrun is higher (about 46%) due
to price escalation increasing during project implementation at a lower
rate than anticipated. The main cause for this overrun lies in higher
costs of civil works and erection of equipment (CMSA's PCR-III (g)(i)).
With regard to operating costs, these have been re-estimated based on the
actual operating experience during October-November 1983, when the
installations were run at 76% of rated capacity. Operating costs
(excluding depreciation and financial charges) are now estimated at US$1.60
per pound of nickel, some 25% higher than the appraisal estimate. With
reference to nickel prices, as discussed earlier (paras 2.03-2.05), the
appraisal estimates were above actual levels during the first two years of
operation, and the difference is expected to be reduced in real terms
during the next three years. For the long term, the trend of nickel prices
estimated in the SAR (expressed in 1983-terms) is lower than present
projections. Although prices have had a negative impact on the rate of
return, this has not been as critical as its influence on the financial
position of the Company (para 2.10). The learning curve has also affected
negatively the rate of return due to the lower levels of output (actual and
expected) during the first three years of operation.
2.13      The economic rate of return was estimated at 19% in the SAR.
This has now been re-estimated to range between 4% and 9%, depending on the
nickel price projection (para 2.05). The significant reduction is due to
the same reasons mentioned above for the financial rate of return.
V.        OVERALL ASSESSMENT
2.14      Notwithstanding the financial difficulties that the project has
been facing (and may continue to face in the near future) it has had an
overall positive impact in the Colombian mining and industrial sector as
well as in the region around Montelibano, where the installations are
located. Firstly, project implementation was accomplished on schedule
under the direction of a strong and competent management team, which merged
very successfully Colombian managerial capabilities with foreign expertise
on design and construction of mining and metallurgical plants. From this
point of view the project represented a spin-off of modern project
managerial techniques deriving from the interaction of the project
management team with local-consulting firms and contractors.  Secondly,
CMSA implemented very successfully training programs which enabled the
availability of skilled foremen, operating labor and maintenance personnel
for the operations. These programs also included close collaboration with
Government agencies by providing financial assistance and sponsoring



-63-
fellowships for high school graduates from the region. Finally, the
project had a very positive effect in the development cf a relatively
isolated rural area, mainly by creating employment opportunities, and
upgrading social services in the area, including sewerage and power, roads
and an airstrip, and schooling and medical facilities.
2.15      Clearly, the major uncertainty about the project's success
derives from the current status and future trends of the international
nickel market. The availability of the take-or-pay sales contract7/ with
Billiton, ensures CMSA's ability to place all its production, but it a
price subject to the market fluctuations. The financial viability of the
company will be dependent on this and on the shareholders' decision to
continue to support the project.
2.16      The high level of investment involved and the unstable situation
of metal markets require that mining projects be approached at present more
than ever, with a clear awareness of the risks associated with sharp
downturns in the markets. The Bank can continue to play a role assisting
borrowers in carefully structuring mining projects with the clear
objective of reducing the risks involved, by seeking and devising
prote:ction mechanisms against possible changes. However, lenders in
general and the Bank in particular, have a very limited capacity for
assi3ting projects facing serious difficulties deriving from severe
downturns in the markets.
VI.       LESSONS FOR SIMILAR PROJECTS
2.17      The ownership structure adopted for the Project has been a good
example for creating adequate conditions for a close collaboration between
the host government of a developing country and foreign investors. The
support provided to the Project by its sponsors led to the establishment of
a well run company, despite the fact that its activities were totally new
in the country and whose management and staff came from three quite diverse
organizations and backgrounds. The scheme of joint ownership, in varying
proportions, between local (state and/or private) and foreign interests can
provide a solid basis for reducing the risks associated with new mining
ventures. Local interests enable the access to natural resources, which
can be developed competitivalv in a well known social, economical and
political environment, while foreign investors provide access to the
required technology, markets, managerial capabilities and facili-ate the
access to capital markets. The Bank definitely can play a catalitic role
in bringing together foreign and local interests for the development of new
mining ventures.
7/ During project preparation, the Bank insisted in the need to have a
long-term sales agreement, in order to reduce the acknowledged market
risks.  The availability of such a contract, acceptable to the Bank,
later became a condition of effectiveness.



-64-
2.18      Nickel prices were singled out in the SAR as the main risk
element affecting the project. As noted earlier (para 2.03), price trends
during the iaitial years of production were substantially over-estimated in
current terms. Metal markets appear to be currently undergoing structural
changes which considerably wider the ranges of possible price projections,
adding a new dimension to the analysis of project risks. The SAR included,
as part of the risks discussions, an analysis of the sensitivity of debt
service coverage to price fluctuations. However, actual prices in 1982-83
have been even below the lower end of the range used in the aralysis. This
also calls for the Bank to carefully assess the methLdology for price
forecasting currently being used.
2.19      The difference in approach for assisting borrowers facing
financial difficulties, between the Bank and commercial lenders became
apparent during the discussions held with CMSA and the Chase-led syndicate
in 1983 (para. 2.10). The Bank's concern was to seek long-term solutions
regarding the financial viability of the Borrower, and to that effect
conditioned consideration of a supplemental loan to further commitment from
the shareholders co continue to support the project.  By contrast,
commercial lenders placed the emphasis on obtaining adequate guarantees for
the additional loan. Cofinancing operacions with commercial lenders are
likely to be exposed to this incompatitiliby of objectives, which may limit
the Bank's ability for further expanding its cofinancing capacity.



- 65 -
PART 3
TRANSLATION OF COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE GOVERNMENT
NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT
Bogota, Colombia
November 9, 1984
Doctor Yukinori Watanabe
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
lWashington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Watanabe:
With respect to the document prepared by the World Bank on the
Cerro Matoso project, we should like to make the following comments.
The report presents in a detailed manner the development of the
project in all its aspects. Emphasis is put on the technical and ad-
ministrative aspects during construction as well as the initial operating
period of the plant.
Nevertheless, the report has gaps relating to the current        Part 2
financial situation especially with respect to the impact on the           paras. 2.08
project's operation of current and future nickel prices in the inter-  and 2.13.
national market. This aspect is included more completely in the
comments on the Bank's report which was prepared by CMSA.
In addition, the report should make mention of the contracts  Part 1
which CMSA currently has with two of the partners for technical            I(a) and
assistance and for sale of the nickel since this is an integral            III(b);
part of the development and operation of the Project.                      Part 2
para.2.15 and
Sincerely,                       footnote 5.
Jorge Ospina Sardi
Chief of the Department



- 66 -
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE BORROWER
~~~~~~~~~CGGH-
COWt@ mattr            'inG                    MontelZbano, November 2, 1984
Mr. Yukinori Watanabe
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
THE WORLD BANK
1818 H. Street, N. W.
Washington
Ref.; Project Completion Report on
Colombia-Cerro   Hatoso   Nickel
Project (Loan 1762-Co)
Dear Mr. Watanabe;
I have reviewed the document prepared by the Bank Operating Staff in
relation to the Project Completion Report and consider that only an
up-date on the present operating situation here at Cerro Matoso is
required apart from some specific clarifications/queries on your
staft comments which we attach separately.
Thus, it should be pointed out that ferronickel shotting equipment
has been installed and is operative, and that the equipment required
to improve the refining section recovery has been purchased and will
be operative by mid-1985 at an installed cost of US$11 million
including the shotting equipment.   The smelting  furnace stability
problems have been brought under control but expenditure of US$3.5
million is planned in 1985 for replacement of the existing furnace
wall with an improved design since maximum furnace power levels are
presently limited to 45-47 -W to minimize loss of refractory.
Year to date operating costs are less than US$1.50 per pound of
nickel with a downward trend continuing. Nickel production to the
end of September was 25.8 million pounds; the total 1984 production
is expected to be 37-38 million pounds.
Yours truly,
/r 
RI    0       DELGADO
Pre ident    neral Manager
lsb/
Cef@ f lCt@oto .@A.  CARRERA 10. No. 27-27. PISO 4c.- CONM. 2840700- TELEX 41216- A. A. 6823 - BOGOTA. COLOMBIA
PLANTA MONTELJBANO, CORDOBA . TELS. (94) (3174 06) - (94) (S1 7419) - TELEX 66000 CEMI-CO



CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART II
QUERIES / COMMENTS FROM CERRO MATOSO S. A.
Basic Data Sheet
The financial / economic rates of return stated under the head- footnote c.
ing "actual" are, of course, not actuals but revised estimates.
2.01 and 2.02
Reterence is made to percentages  ot design capacity.   Since,
however, no refinery slag and casting reject recovery system
had been installed at time of mechanical completion, the design  footnote 1.
capacity should be 40 m. lbs. and not 50 m. lbs. on which the
percentages are apparently calculated.
2.01
tMost ot the ditticulties taced by C2SA for achieving higher
terronickel outputs during this period (1982/83) have been
related to reaching a stable and continuous operation of the
electrical arc furnace".
Although in itselt correct, the reason for not achieving a
stable arc turnace operation during most of this period was not
the furnace itself but the retinery. A significant contribu- Text amended.
tion to improvement in refinery capacity was achieved by chang-
ing the ferronickel grade specification trom 37.5 % nickel to
42.5 X nickel.
2.02
To remedy the retinery bottleneck was indeed initially estimat-
ed to require investments of US$ 20 m.  However, further study  footnote 3.
and progress in refinery know-how (reverse refining cycle stor-
ing with an exothermic oxygen blo-w to remove silicon) showed
tnat only US$ 7.5 m. was required. Moreover a signiticant re-
duction in refining requirements was obtained by accepting a
higher grade terronickel.



- 68 -
2.05 and 2.12
It is not understood how the 1984 price ot the SAR estimate
could bave been US$ 2.69 in 1983 terms vs. uS$ 3.61 in current
terms. The SAR prices seem not to have been adjusted to 1983
terms.
The comments on prices in 2.12 may need revision since it is Text amended.
stated that appraisal estimates were below actual levels in the
tirst years of operation.
2.10
"These arrangements did not materialize basically because C24SA
(and the sbareholders) could not reach agreement with the lend-
ers on commitments tor additional equity contributions".
It would be more correct to say "no agreement could be reached Text amended.
on cash flow guarantees".
In the tinal sentence it would be more precise to reter to "the
additional financing required tor 1984 .....".



