Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2450a-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
CERRO MATOSO S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
NICKEL PROJECT
September 25, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978              Mid-1979
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col$                   Col$
US$1           =  Col$39.323                    42.40
Col$1          =  US$0.0254                     0.0236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)3           =  0.622 miles (mi)      3
1 cubic meter (m )          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft )
"1                   =  264.2 US gallons (gal)
it                   =  6.29 barrels (bbl)
1 metric ton (MT)           =  2,206 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (MT)           =  1.1 short tons (st)
1 dry metric ton (DMT)      =  1.1 dry short tons (dst)
1 wet metric ton (WMT)      =  1.1 wet short tons (wst)
1 kilowat (kW)              =  1,000 watts
1 Megawatt (MW)             =  1,000 kilowatts
1 Megavoltampere (MVA)      =  1,000 kilovoltamperes (kVa)6
1 Gigawatthour (GWh)        =  1,000,000 kilowatthours (10 kWH)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 volts
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BILLITON        -   Billiton Overseas Ltd.
CARBOCOL        -   Carbones de Colombia S.A.
CMSA            -   Cerro Matoso S.A.
COLPUERTOS      -   Empresa de Puertos de Colombia
CONICOL         -   Compania de Niquel Colombiano S.A.
CONPES          -   Consejo de Politica Economica y Social
CORELCA         -   Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
DNP             -   Departmento Nacional de Planeacion
ECOMINAS        -   Empresa Colombiana de Minas
ECONIQUEL       -   Empresa Colombiana de Niquel, Ltda.
ECOPETROL       -   Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
ELECTRICORDOBA  -   Electrificadora de Cordoba
HANNA           -   Hanna Mining Company
IFI             -   Instituto de Fomento Industrial
INCOMEX         -   Instituto Nacional de Comercio Exterior
INSCREDIAL      -   Instituto de Credito Territorial
INGEOMINAS      -   Instituto Nacional de Geologia y Minas
ISA             -   Interconexion Electrica S.A.
SENA            -   Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
SHELL           -   The Shell Petroleum Company Ltd.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
CERRC' MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Cerro Matoso S.A.
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$80.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 14 years, including 4 years of grace;
interest at 7.9% (Bank standard rate) per annum.
Guarantee Fee:       2.1% per annum on the US$ equivalent of the disbursed
amount of the loan, but not less than 1% per annum on
the US$ equivalent of the several currencies outstanding,
payable by the Borrower to the Guarantor.
Project
Description:       The project would consist in the exploitation of the
Cerro Matoso nickel laterite deposit, located near the
town of Montelibano, in the Department of Cordoba,
through the mining and beneficiation of an annual average
of approximately 780,000 DMT of ore, grading about
2.7% Ni, to produce about 20,000 DMT of nickel contained
in ferronickel with a grade of 37.5% for export. The
project would include the construction and operation of an
open pit mine, single line ore processing facilities,
ancillary on-site facilities, a town-site, a river wharf,
an access road, a natural gas pipeline and airstrip
improvements.
Estimated Cost:                                          US$ million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
Mine                                9.6    14.6       24.2
Plant                              34.8    51.3       86.1
Gas Pipieline                       1.0      2.0       3.0
Plant Modification                   -       2.5       2.5
Civil Works and Installation       24.1      5.0      29.1
Engineering and Project
Serviczes                        16.4    28.8      45.2
Freight and Insurance               3.0    13.1       16.1
Duty and Taxes                      2.4      -         2.4
Pre-operating Expenses              9.0    16.0       25.0
Total Base Cost (April 1979)  100.3   133.3    233.6
Physical Contingency                8.7      9.4      18.1
Price Escalation                   11.2    13.9       25.1
Working Capital                     3.6    32.2       35.8
Total Project Cost              123.8   188.8    312.6
Interest during Construction        -       27.4     27.4
Total Financing Required        123.8   216.2    340.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                         US$ million equivalent
I.   SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
A. Basic Investment
1. ECONIQUEL (45%)
a.  Joint Venture Assets              10.00
b.  New Equity                        23.75       33.75
2. BILLITON (35%)
New Equity                                       26.25
3. CONICOL (20%)
Joint Venture Assets                             15.00       75.00
B.  Sponsors' and Shareholders' Additional
Equity Commitment
1.  ECONIQUEL (45%)                                   17.55
2.  BILLITON (35%)                                    13.65
3.  HANNA (20%)                                        7.80       39.00
114.00
II.   LONG-TERM LOANS
A. World Bank                                              80.00
B.  Chase Manhattan Bank                                  100.90
C. U.S. Export-Import Bank (including
associated private financing)                         25.60      206.50
III.   INTERNAL CASH GENERATION DURING 1983-84                                19.50
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                             340.00
IV.   OTHER FINANCING
A. Balance of Sponsors' and Shareholders'
Additional Equity Commitment                          86.00
B.  Balance of Chase Manhattan Loan                        19.10    105.10
TOTAL FINANCING AVAILABLE                                           445.10



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   US$ million equivalent
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual                     27.0    38.3       9.7     5.0
Cumulative                 27.0    65.3    75.0    80.0
Risks:               The technical risks are small because the ore body
is high grade and mining and processing have been
extensively studied and will be conducted with the
assistance of a large and experienced mining company.
While in 1982, when the project is expected to come on
stream, there might still be a surplus in the nickel
market, the high grade ore and comparatively low infra-
structure requirements make the project very competitive.
Moreover, Billiton Metals and Ores International B.V.,
a Dutch subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell group, would
undertake to buy 100% of the project's output, at market
prices, under a 13-year, take-or-pay contract. While the
price risk remains with the Borrower, this contract would
enable it to service debt comfortably.
Rate of Return:      EconomLc:  19%
Financial: 17%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2149b-CO, dated September 24, 1979.






INTERNATIONAIL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
CERR() MATOSO S.A. WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
1.        I submit the fo'Llowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Cerro Matoso S.A. (CMSA), with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia,
for the equivalent of US$80.0 million to help finance the Cerro Matoso nickel
project. The loan would have a term of 14 years, including four years of grace,
with interest at 7.9% per annum. The Government of Colombia would charge
CMSA a guarantee fee of 2.1% per annum on a dollar basis. The project is to
be co-financed through (a) a US$120.0 million loan from a private bank syndi-
cate led by Chase Manhattan Bank of New York, which would be available as a
revolving credit for 3-1/2 years and then converted into a 6-1/2 year loan,
including one year of grace, at 1-1/4% over LIBOR plus management, agency and
project fees; and (b) a US5$25.6 million loan from the U.S. Export-Import Bank
and a group of private banks, repayable in 13 years, including three years of
grace, and bearing interest at 8-5/8% per annum on the U.S. Export-Import Bank
portion and at 1-1/8% over the US prime rate on the private banks' portion.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably,
and there has been substantial diversification of production in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied
by rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a
modern sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a
result, the country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, and fluctuations in domestic economic conditions
resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still
considerable, have become more manageable. Although substantial progress
has been made during the past two decades, Colombia is still only partially
developed with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional
and economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world
standards, and in the mid 1970s an estimated 34.0% of the urban population
had incomes under the relative poverty level as defined by the Bank.



-2-
4.        Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply in the past
two decades; from well over 3% in the 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s
and to an estimated 2.1% at present. 1/ This was in large part the result
of a rapid decline in the crude birth rate; one of the most pronounced declines
ever recorded in a Lati  Tc.morican couiLry.  Rising per capita income, rapid
rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for women and increased
effectiveness of family planning programs are included among the factors
responsible for the lower birth rate. Although rural/urban migration slowed
from the early 1960s on as progress was made in eliminating the widespread
violence in the countryside, approximately 66% of the current population lives
in urban centers and there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding
100,000 persons. Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative
to the country's resource base. Economic growth will have to average around
6%, however, especially in the directly productive and service sectors, in
order to increase employment at a pace sufficient to keep up with growth of
the labor force.
5.        Available information--while scanty--suggests that some improvement
has occurred in income distribution and welfare of the lowest income groups
in Colombia since the 1950s. Moreover, absolute poverty has been reduced
substantially. These gains were probably the consequence of several factors,
including migration of surplus labor from rural to urban areas, rapid growth
of employment in high productivity jobs in industry and the services and
reduced population growth. Policy efforts, particularly since 1967, have been
directed increasingly toward improving the welfare of the poorest 50% of the
population. These efforts have emphasized both employment generation and
greater public investment in health, education, nutrition and urban develop-
ment. The Bank has actively supported these efforts. Continued emphasis on
growth of the productive sectors of the economy, on industrial decentralization
and on programs to encourage small-scale industry and agriculture should pro-
vide increased employment opportunities and higher real wages for unskilled
and semi-skilled labor in both rural and urban areas. Further improvement in
the public services provided to the poor should reinforce these trends and
raise the level of welfare of this segment of the population.
6.        Following several years of erratic economic growth and rising
unemployment, the Colombian authorities introduced in 1967 a dramatic change
in development strategy shifting emphasis from the then existing protectionist
policy of import substitution to measures designed to expand and diversify
exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding non-coffee exports,
thereby alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making possible a
substantially higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP rose by
an average 6.5% annually between 1967-1969 and 1974, well above the historical
average growth rate. Merchandise exports in current prices expanded nearly
threefold during this period and, most significantly, non-traditional exports
became an increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part
compensating for slow growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974,
non-coffee exports comprised 56% of total merchandise exports, up from about
30% in 1967.
1/   Estimated 1978 growth rate.



-3-
7.        Despite the growth of output and the diversification of exports,
the country faced some potentially serious problems at the time the
administration of President Lopez Michelsen took office in 1974. Weakening
balance of payments in part related to the slowdown of growth in the indus-
trial countries, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deteriora-
tion of the public finances, accelerating inflation, and declining investment
threatened to reduce growth of output and employment. As a consequence of
these developments, the Government introduced an economic stabilization pro-
gram which combined basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems
with measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In an effort to strengthen the public finances, the Government
undertook a comprehensive itax reform designed to improve the progressivity
and elasticity of the tax system. Some of the distortions which had developed
in the financial system because of forced investment requirements placed on
financial institutions and differential tax treatment of financial instruments
were eliminated. Interest rates were raised in an effort to increase private
savings and improve resource allocation. In order to increase the efficiency
of the economy through greater reliance on market forces, price controls on a
number of industrial and agricultural products were removed, thereby providing
greater stimulus for increasing production. Modifications in petroleum
pricing policy aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in the production of crude
petroleum by improving incentives for exploration and exploitation were
introduced. Concurrently, the Government initiated policies designed to
reduce the subsidy on local consumption of petroleum products, which eventually
led to a 220% increase in gasoline prices by 1978. Tariff levels and non-
tariff barriers to trade were reduced significantly in order to increase
competition and the efficiency of domestic firms. While these reforms were
successful in improving thLe public finances and reducing inflation in 1975,
they also served to reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic
economic activity which began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the past three years, the Colombian economy has been
dominated by developments in the external sector. The serious frost in late
1975 affecting Brazil's major coffee producing area, triggered a fourfold
increase in the world price of coffee by mid-1977. This caused Colombia's
export earnings from coffee to increase to nearly US$1.8 billion in 1977
from US$764 million in 1975, and produced an unprecedented rise in incomes
and demand in the country's rural areas. Lagging supply of consumer goods,
particularly basic foodstuffs--the production of which was adversely affected
by drought conditions in most of the country's interior--failed to keep
pace with rising demand, and inflation accelerated from 24% in 1975 to 44% in
the twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia has been moderate
relative to that experienced by other countries in the region, seldom exceeding
an annual rate of 20%. The acceleration of inflation which took place during
the period, therefore, was unprecedented in recent history, and efforts to
lower the rate of inflation have dictated economic policy since that time.



- 4 -
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range
of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the
explosive increase in prices. As a consequence of these measures and of a
favorable second semester harvest, inflation declined sharply beginning in
July 1977. By the end of the year, the annual rate of inflation had fallen to
29%. With few exceptions, the stabilization policies, together with periodic
exchange rate adjustments, were continued in effect throughout 1978 and by
year end inflation had subsided to an annual rate of 17.8%.
11.       Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets, slow growth in
agricultural production, capacity constraints in the industrial sector and
modest increases in real investment, the Colombian economy expanded only
moderately in 1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975,
to 4.6% and 4.8% respectively in the subsequent two years. However, because
growth occurred in the relatively labor intensive sectors of the economy--
personal services, trade, transport and communications and manufacturing--the
urban unemployment rate had declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977,
from an average 12% during the early 1970s. In addition, there is evidence of
labor shortages and rising real wage rates in rural areas during this period,
and it appears that rural unemployment also declined.
12.       Estimates for 1978 show an 8% increase in real GDP resulting pri-
marily from continued stimulus to aggregate demand from high coffee receipts
and from an expansion of investment. In addition, favorable weather conditions
permitted a sharp recovery in agricultural output. Agricultural production is
estimated to have grown by as much as 9% over the low level of 1977. While
coffee prices fell considerably in 1978 from their 1977 levels, this decline
was more than offset by expanding export volume as Colombia undertook a more
aggressive coffee export policy. Consequently, receipts from coffee exports
rose to nearly US$2.1 billion for the year. The accompanying rise in domestic
demand and a modest recovery in export markets caused manufacturing and trans-
port and communications to grow by 8.5% each and trade (including commerce) by
9%. Open unemployment in urban areas is estimated to have fallen further to
7.6% by June 1978.
13.       Colombia's balance of payments was in surplus in 1978, continuing
the trend of the previous three years. Largely as a result of the increase in
coffee exports, Colombia's net official international reserves rose by US$664
million, reaching US$2,493 million by the end of the year, equivalent to about
nine months imports of goods and non-factor services. This increase in reserves
occurred despite a nominal 25% increase in import payments, reflecting the
rise in domestic demand, a certain overvaluation of the exchange rate and
liberal import policies. There were few significant modifications in trade
and exchange rate policies in 1978. The slow rate of peso devaluation was
continued during the first three-quarters of the year, but accelerated in the
fourth quarter when the pace of reserve accumulation began to slow. In gen-
eral, trade and exchange rate policies were directed towards reducing the
impact of reserve accumulation on the monetary base by delaying the monetiza-
tion of export receipts and advancing import payments. These measures com-
plemented monetary policies which were aimed at restraining growth of the
money supply.



-5-
14.       Colombia's public finances generated a large surplus in 1978
thereby permitting the Government to relax somewhat the policy of fiscal
restraint which formed part of its anti-inflationary program during the
previous two years. Current savings of the public sector rose to an estimated
6% of GDP, compared with 5.5% of GDP in 1977, and covered about 90% of
public sector investment. Both the Central Government 1/ and tiie± consolidated
decentralized agencies increased their savings in 1978, the former by 34% and
the latter by 153%. The strong increase in savings of the decentralized
agencies, which rose to 1.4% of GDP from 0.7% in 1977, was the result of
increased charges for the services they provide and of restraint on current
expenditures. Large increases in customs duties and in sales taxes brought
about by the growth in domestic demand were the main factors responsible
for the increase in savings of the Central Government. As a consequence of
this improved financial situation, public investment rose during the year,
reaching 6.9% of GDP compared with 6.4% of GDP on average for the 1975-77
period. Some of the heaviest investment took place in the development of
hydropower and in the petroleum sector, for both exploration and development.
15.       Despite continuation of the stabilization policies by the government
of President Turbay which took office in August 1978, the rate of inflation
accelerated in 1979, largely as a result of external factors. When another
frost in Brazil's coffee areas caused world coffee prices to rise sharply in
May and June 1979, the Colombian authorities raised the domestic purchase
price of coffee (although not to the previously high levels) and reintroduced
the certificate of exchange system for coffee exports. By the end of July
1979, Colombia's net official reserves had reached US$3,465 million. Retail
gasoline prices were raised in mid-March and again in July to cover the
increased cost of petroletum imports arising from the OPEC price hikes. Between
August 1978 and August,1979, retail gasoline prices were raised by 117%. In
an added effort to reduce inflation, restraints were imposed on public sector
investment, measures were taken to facilitate imports, and public transport
subsidies were reduced through an increase in fares. Notwithstanding these
measures, inflation continued to accelerate, reaching 23.6% on an annual basis
by the end of July 1979. With further increases in foreign exchange reserves
from higher coffee receipts and some resumption of public investment expected
in the second half of the year, inflation is not likely to fall significantly
from present levels. With sluggish private and public investment resulting
from monetary and fiscal restraints, economic growth in 1979 is likely to be
below the 1978 level.
Development Strategy and ]?rospects
16.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefits of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
1/   Comprised of the National Government, the National Highway Fund and the
Social Security Agen,cies.



-6-
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past four years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated.  These programs have been complemented by policies to encourage the
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry
away from the three largest cities. This latter policy, together with credit
programs aimed at increasing output and employment in agriculture, have been
designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce rural/urban migration. Public
sector infrastructure investments have been concentrated on improvement and
extension of highway and communications systems. Special priority has been
given to the development of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's
growing dependence on imported oil.
17.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is re-
flected in the increased proportion of total National Government expenditure on
education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from 33% in 1974
to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the coffee boom and the
need to concentrate economic policy on short-term management problems have
limited expansion of public and private investment and have induced temporary
suspension of some of the measures designed to free the price system and
stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
18.       The government of President Turbay intends to continue with essen-
tially the same development strategy as the previous administration. Under
this strategy, economic growth is to be promoted through expansion of non-coffee
exports and through measures to stimulate investment and increase the efficiency
of resource allocation. However, this Government proposes to give greater
emphasis to expansion of economic and social infrastructure, with particular
stress on improving the transport and communications networks. Improvement
in transport and communications infrastructure is expected to encourage
increased inter-regional trade which, together with alleviation of the foreign
exchange constraint, should further stimulate investment and economic growth.
Measures to encourage industrial decentralization have been introduced to
complement the actions taken to unify regional markets.
19.       Rapid expansion of domestic energy resources is to be given high
and long overdue priority with the view to regaining self-sufficiency in
energy as early as possible. Even under the most optimistic assumptions
regarding development of such resources, however, Colombia will continue to
rely heavily on energy imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to reduce the country's net energy deficit. Small
scale agriculture and industry will continue to receive strong support through
credit, and low income rural areas are to be helped through rural electrifica-
tion, health and education programs and through expansion of feeder road



-7-
projects. Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI)
and nutrition projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive continued
high priority. Public investment programs in education, health, water and
sewerage and urban development (especially those directed at alleviating
urban poverty) are to be continued as well.
20.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP growth averaging
about 7% during the 1979-83 period. Maintenance of this level of growth will
require rapid expansion of: non-coffee exports and high savings and investment
rates. Public sector investment is expected to expand faster than GDP during
this period because of the large proposed programs for infrastructure, social
services and energy development. Financial requirements for this higher level
of investment will be substantial and public sector savings will have to be
sustained at the current high levels.
21.       Given the expectLed decline in coffee revenue in the medium term,
improvements will be required in the administration and collection of non-coffee
taxes, and additional tax measures may be required. Of equal importance is
the continued upward adjustment in prices charged for the goods and services
provided by the public decentralized agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports,
especially of manufactured goods, will no doubt be strongly influenced by the
rates of economic growth of Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate
domestic incentives will also play an important role. In this regard, it is
expected that Colombia will follow an exchange rate policy designed to maintain
the competitiveness of Colombian exports and that additional export promotion
measures will be adopted to encourage both product and market diversification.
22.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement incentives given
to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs in the agricultural
sector, including integrated rural development, expansion of farm credit, im-
proved research and extension services, and upgraded marketing facilities, are
already in place and will need to be strengthened. Further development of
the country's capital markets is expected to increase private savings and im-
prove the allocation of f'inancial resources, thereby providing the basis for
more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and future infrastructure investments
by the public sector should facilitate improvements in economic efficiency and
lead to more rapid growth of output and employment in both industry and
agriculture.
23.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. To avoid the con-
straint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would entail, high
priority is being given ito the development of additional energy sources. The
strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's dependence on petro-
leum as an energy source by developing substitutes such as hydropower, coal
and natural gas.  Major projects are being executed and others prepared to



-8-
expand hydroelectric power generation, and incentives are being given to
private foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the
country's petroleum, coal and natural gas potential.  Exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports
projected for the mid to late 1980s.  Conservation of existing resources
resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the growth in energy
demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development is still
being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment
could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices over the next decade.
With requirements of this magnitude, it is clear that both domestic and foreign
financing of considerable size will be needed.
24.       Because of the expected decline in world coffee prices in the medium
term, and with accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future
investment projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected
to be in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the
balance of payments by the late 1980s.  Colombia is expected, therefore, to
continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come. Its
future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement domestic
savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program and to
provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required imports
of capital and intermediate goods. Even assuming that the Colombian authorities
permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months'
imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements
are projected at US$7.0 billion between 1979 and 1983, or an annual average
of about US$1.4 billion. Less than 40% of Colombia's capital inflow during
this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources, with commercial and financial credits becoming increasingly important.
25.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1978, of which US$2.7 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 29% and is expected to fluctuate between 29% and 31% until 1985. Although
the public debt service ratio fell during the past two years as export growth
accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase from 10.2% in 1978 to about
14.7% in 1983. Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will depend heavily
on the timely development of domestic energy sources and on progress made in
executing several natural resource-based export-oriented projects currently
under preparation. Given the expected continuation of sound economic and
financial management and timely execution of the country's energy program,
Colombia is considered creditworthy for the required external borrowing on
conventional terms.



-9 -
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
26.       The proposed loan, the 83rd to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,269.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,746.6 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 47 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises and now holds
US$17.3 million. Annex I-[ contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA
credit and IFC investments as of June 30, 1979. The Annex also contains
summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing projects.
27.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified and
has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Including the proposed project,
10 of the 13 loans for industry have been made since then, nine of the 13
agricultural loans, all three loans in the education sector, one loan for a
nutrition project, two loans for urban development projects and all nine
loans for water supply and sewerage. This compares with only 13 loans since
FY68 in the power and transport sectors.
28.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY79 consisted of two loans each for
water supply/sewerage and power, and one each for urban development, aviation
development and agricultural credit, totalling US$311.5 million equivalent.
In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY80 program includes
proposed loans for vocational training, coal engineering, power generation
and distribution, oil exploration, land settlement, further agricultural
and industrial credit, including small-scale and agro-industries, and telecom-
munications. Work is also under way on projects for railways, ports, feeder
and rural roads, further mining development, power (including rural electrifi-
cation), land colonization, water supply and sewerage, urban development
and environmental improvement, for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years.
29.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist the development of coal mines and petroleum, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in
diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help
mobilize additional external financing as some of the projects would require
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
assist the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to sitrengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to
these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastruc-
ture. In this context, the Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a
rural and feeder roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the
country into the modern economy. Other loans under preparation for ports and
railroads are aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional



- 10 -
exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy
relies for expansion. Lending for telecommunication would assist the
Government in its efforts to integrate the smaller towns into the national
economy. Finally, a relatively large number of loans are being prepared in
support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian
population. Lending for urban development and slum improvement, rural elec-
trification, land settlement, water supply and sewerage and environmental
improvement projects is principally designed to improve the standard of
living of the poor.
30.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and other bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1975-77 period and it is expected that during
the period 1979-83 this share will decline further to about 38% of external
capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to
social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and rural
development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, and land
erosion control. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia to develop
sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity of the productive
sectors to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported programs
in education, urban development and small farm development, but it plans to
phase out its aid program in Colombia at the end of this year with the disburse-
ment of a US$6 million nutrition loan. The Governments of the Federal Republic
of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for
social and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE NON-FUEL MINERAL SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
Background
31.       Historically, mining has been relatively insignificant, with the
exception of gold and iron ore. Although there are geological formations
of, inter alia, copper, lead-zinc, asbestos, bauxite and phosphates, explora-
tion efforts have been minimal. The share of GDP originating in the non-fuel
mining sector is even lower in Colombia (0.9% in 1976) than in such countries
as Mexico (1.2%), Argentina (1.2%) and Peru (4.3%) and very considerably lower
than such mineral-rich countries as Chile (13.0%) and Bolivia (15.4%). Clearly,
mining in Colombia remains well below the sector's potential.
Mining Operations and Exploration
32.       Metallic Minerals:  Output of metallic minerals, except for iron
ore, is insignificant. In 1974, the last year for which reasonably compre-
hensive data are available, 126,000 MT of lead, 37,000 MT of zinc, and
70,000 MT of copper were produced. Iron ore, however, is currently mined on a
larger scale (520,000 MT of iron content in 1977) by Acerias Paz del Rio in



- 11 -
Boyaca, 1/ for use in its steel plant at Belencito. The only unexploited
metallic ore body in Colombia, well enough known as to be considered commer-
cially proven, is the Cerro Matoso nickel deposit.
33.       Precious Metals.  Gold has traditionally been mined by artisanal
methods, mostly from placer and, on a small scale, from vein-type deposits.
Only three medium-sized companies employ any degree of mechanization. The
metal is refined locally and, after the associated silver and platinum are
separated, it is sold to the Banco de la Republica, Colombia's Central
Bank. Officially, production in 1977 was 270,000 troy ounces of gold and
80,000 ounces of silver. Prior to 1976, there was limited production (around
20,000 ounces per annum) of platinum group metals but none has been recorded
subsequently.
34.       Emeralds.  Colombia has a virtual world monopoly in the production
of gem grade emeralds. IrL 1973, official production was 109,000 carats. How-
ever, the mines had to be closed in 1974 because of law and order problems
and no official production has been reported since. In 1977, Empresa Minera
Boyacense--a joint venture between private interests and the Government's
mining agency--was granted a five-year concession for the exploitation of
Muzo, the major deposit formerly in production.
35.       Exploration is currently being carried out by Ai4OCO (US) in northern
Choco, in order to delineate a possibly significant porphyry copper deposit
grading 0.6-0.7% copper. Also in Choco, the Instituto Nacional de Geologia y
Minas (INGEOMINAS), which is the Government's agency for exploration in the
mineral sector, is exploring another porphyry prospect with UNDP assistance.
In the course of UNDP's program, at least seven other geochemically anomalous
zones have been also found in the central and coastal ranges of the Colombian
Cordillera, and the possibility of substantial copper porphyry discoveries
appears to be good. An asbestos mining project is currently underway with
IFC financing, a phosphate project is under study and the Government is
conducting uranium exploration with external assistance.
Government Mining Policy
36.       There have been several causes for the mining sector's slow develop-
ment: limited resource data, shortage of qualified manpower, inadequate
legislation. In addition, mining policy has not been clearly defined and
investment in the sector has received a low priority. Foreign capital in
nonpetroleum minerals has been minimal, and very little credit has been avail-
able to local entrepreneurs. Of total commercial bank credit extended from
1971 to 1976, only 0.5% was for extractive industries and outstanding mining
credit at mid-1976 was less than US$8 million equivalent.
1/   The Bank lent US$30.0 million equivalent to Acerias Paz del Rio in FY63.
(Loan No. 345-CO). This loan has been fully repaid.



- 12 -
37.       The basic principles of Colombian mining legislation are embodied
in Decree 1275 of 1970. Generally, all mineral deposits are the property of
the State. All new foreign investment in the mining sector must be approved
by the Ministry of Mines and Energy. There are no significant tax incentives
to stimulate foreign investment in the sector and mineral rights are now
granted much more selectively, with title to large areas being reserved for
state entities.
38.       The Government has recently begun actively to promote joint ventures.
Although in certain subsectors specialized agencies have been created (e.g.,
ECONIQUEL for nickel, CARBOCOL for coal and COLURANIO for uranium), the
Government's usual vehicle for such investments is Empresa Colombiana de Minas
(ECOMINAS). Since a major constraint on development of the mineral sector has
been inadequate investment in exploration and mine development, the Government
has also established INGEOMINAS, which is involved in mineral exploration.
INGEOMINAS, under a new leadership, is undergoing a significant transformation.
Development Priorities
39.       Outside petroleum, the Government's priority is exploitation of
the country's important coal reserves, particularly the Cerrejon project,
where CARBOCOL is in association with INTERCOR, a subsidiary of EXXON (US). 1/
In the public sector, the Government intends to continue its policy of direct
participation, either through ECOMINAS or through specialized agencies,
and to take advantage of the technical expertise of expatriate partners
acting as operators. However, there is so far little attempt at coordinating
the broad range of Government policies which affect the large number of
individual firms in the private sector. There is need for expanded technical
assistance, greater access to credit, a more market-oriented pricing policy,
greater emphasis on promoting the mergers of small, uneconomic mines and
coordination and simplification of the process for granting mineral con-
cessions. This will entail a considerable strengthening of the Government
institutions serving the mining sector.
40.       The main objectives of Government policy in the mining sector are
(a) to exploit mineral resources with a proven export potential and (b) to
develop domestic fuel deposits to achieve an adequate domestic energy balance.
The proposed Bank financial assistance to this project would clearly support
the first of these two objectives (see paragraphs 66, 67 and 69 of this
Report). In addition, the Bank's participation has been deemed crucial by
both the project foreign sponsors and the Bank's co-financiers whose technical,
commercial and financial capabilities, respectively, would not have been
otherwise available. Bank participation in the exploitation of mineral fuel
resources is also envisaged for the near future in support of the Government's
long range energy plans.
1/   In March, 1979, UNDP made a grant to provide general consultants' services
to CARBOCOL in connection with this project. The Bank has been designated
executing agency.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was first brought to the Bank's attention in 1967.
Thereafter, it was modified to (a) include ore processing within the country
in accordance with Colombian policy and (b) bring in new sponsors. It was
pre-appraised in 1976 and, after Shell/Billiton's decision to participate and
to guarantee off-take of the product, it was appraised in March/April 1978.
Subsequently, lenghty discussions were held with the project's sponsors,
Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI), Shell Petroleum Co. Ltd. (SHELL) and
the Hanna Mining Company of Ohio, U.S.A. (HANNA), and the project engineers,
(Bechtel Corporation), particularly on the capital cost estimates. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington and in Bogota between March and August 1979,
with representatives of Cerro Matoso S.A. (CMSA), the sponsors and its share-
holders, ECONIQUEL, CONICOL and BILLITON. Representatives of IFI (the Govern-
ment's industrial finance agency) and the Ministry of Finance also attended.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2149b-CO of September 24, 1979) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objective and Description
42.       The project's main objective would be export diversification.  At
full production--expected to be reached around 1985--it would produce about
60,000 MT of ferronickel per annum which, at currently projected nickel
prices, would yield about US$200 million in current US dollars in additional
export revenues. This amount would represent about 7% of gross revenues
from non-coffee exports in 1985.
43.       The project would consist in the development of an open pit mine to
extract for 25 years an arnual average of 780,000 DMT of lateritic ore
containing an average of 2.7% nickel, which is to be processed into approxi-
mately 42.3 million lb (about 20,000 DMT) of nickel contained in ferronickel
with an average grade of 37.5% intended for export. The orebody is a typical
nickel silicate laterite, originally discovered by a subsidiary of Standard
Oil of California, U.S.A. (Chevron) in the early 1950s. Mining would be a
relatively simple truck and shovel operation and the single-line process
facilities would include: drying, fine crushing and screening facilities with
associated dry ore storage and conveyors; a coal handling and storage system;
coal blending and facilities for the agglomeration of the ore-coal mixtures;
calcining in a rotary kiln; ore transfer and smelting in an electric arc
furnace; slag handling and disposal; hot metal handling and refining; pig
casting and shipping. Ancillary on-site facilities would include shops,
warehouses, medical facilities, utilities, laboratories, offices and fuel
storage. Related off-site facilities would include a townsite, workers'
housing, loading and unloading river facilities, a gas pipeline, and access
road and airstrip improvements. The project is scheduled to be completed
within 34 months of commencement of work, which occurred in July 1979.



- 14 -
44.       The project would be located in the northwestern Department of
Cordoba, approximately 430 km south of the port of Cartagena and about 22 km
from the provincial town of Montelibano, where the future townsite would be
located. Montelibano is 12 km from the main highway which leads south to the
industrial center of Medellin (333 km) and north to the Atlantic ports of
Cartagena and Barranquilla (538 km). Caucasia, approximately 30 km southeast
of Montelibano, is located on the navigable Cauca river and offers a wharf
site for river barges which would bring heavy imported equipment during
project construction.
Project Implementation
45.       The technology to be used is well understood and, although the
rotary kiln will be the largest for a nickel laterite operation, its size is
not expected to be a problem. Based on extensive reviews, Bank staff are
satisfied that the process chosen is appropriate and that no major difficulties
should be encountered during implementation or operations.
46.       The project would be close to an existing township and transport and
other facilities. Overall infrastructure requirements would, therefore, be a
great deal lighter than for most other greenfield nickel projects. However,
as in other nickel laterite projects, the smelting and refining process would
be highly energy-intensive. Total energy consumption is expected to be about
19.08 KWh per lb of nickel, and, as a result, availability of reasonably-priced
electric power, as well as of natural gas and coal is critical. Power supply
is expected to be ensured through the construction of the San Carlos hydro-
electric project 1/ and a transmission line. 2/ Under the present project
implementation schedule, power supply would be required by January/February
1982, and the aforesaid power facilities may not be operational until May
1982. Close coordination on the timing of the power transmission and proposed
nickel projects would be necessary. The negotiation of power tariffs has
received special attention since electricity would constitute the largest
single item of operating costs. Natural gas, chosen by the sponsors as the
project's fuel, is available in adequate volumes. During negotiations,
assurances have been obtained:
(a) from CMSA and the Government, that (i) an adequate power supply
will be available to CMSA, and (ii) if interim arrangements appear
riecessary, the Bank will be afforded a reasonable opportunity
to comment on their economic and technical soundness (Sec. 3.05,
draft Loan Agreement and Sec. 3.03, draft Guarantee Agreement);
(b) from CMSA, that power supply would be available on terms acceptable
to the Bank, under a contract already negotiated in substance which
would (i) be consistent with CORELCA's obligations under the loan
agreements corresponding to the Bank's loans Nos. 1582-CO and
1583-CO, and (ii) be signed prior to loan effectiveness (Sec.
7.01(a) and (b), draft Loan Agreement); and
1/   Partially financed by Bank loan No. 1582-CO, US$126 million, signed
July 14, 1978.
2/   Partially financed by Bank loan No. 1583-CO, US$50 million, signed
July 14, 1978.



- 15 -
(c) from ECOPETROL and CMSA, that gas supplies would be available
on terms acceptaLble to the Bank, under a contract which would
be signed prior to loan effectiveness (Sec. 7.01(a) and (b), draft
Loan Agreement).
47.       Houriy-paid workers and salaried staff are expected to number around
720 at full production level, which clearly exceeds housing availability
at Montelibano. Salaried personnel are expected to be housed on a subsidized
rental basis but, in order to encourage stability, it is considered desirable
that hourly-paid personnel be able to own their homes. The project, therefore,
includes the construction of a townsite and adequate and sufficient housing
units and the implementati'on of a credit program to assist CMSA's personnel in
the purchase or construction of their homes. Adequate assurances to this
effect have been obtained (Sec. 3.01, draft Loan Agreement and Part D(c)
of Schedule 2 thereto, and Sec. 3.03, draft Guarantee Agreement).
48.      In the absence of specific Government-issued regulations applicable
to this project, CMSA intends to follow applicable U.S. environmental pro-
tection rules. 1/ Assurances have been obtained from CMSA that the project
will be carried out and operated in conformity with appropriate pollution
control and ecological standards (Sec. 4.05, draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower and the Project Sponsors
49.       The project has had a long and complex history.  The orebody was
located by the Richmond Petroleum Co.--a subsidiary of Chevron (U.S.)--in
the early 1950s and the initial concession agreement was signed in 1963.
Subsequently, Richmond and HANNA entered into a 50/50 joint venture to finance
further exploration and established an operating company (Minera Chevron).
Later on, HANNA organized a subsidiary, Compania de Niquel Colombiano S.A.
(CONICOL), with a diminis'hed Chevron participation. In the meantime, the
Colombian Institute for Industrial Development (IFI) set up Empresa Colombiana
de Niquel Ltda. (ECONIQUEL) as a subsidiary to channel its participation in
the project. In 1970, CONICOL and ECONIQUEL entered into a 66/33 joint venture
agreement, which has been since adjusted to a 60/40 sharing formula. The
concession agreement was also modified in 1970 and currently provides that the
CONICOL/ ECONIQUEL joint venture will (a) complete project construction not
later than January 1981 and (b) exploit the deposit for 25 years, extendable
to 30 years. The Bank and other long-term lenders expressed both their prefer-
ence for lending to a corporate entity and their reluctance to do so until the
marketing of the project's output had been assured. This led, eventually, to
the incorporation, on March 12, 1979, of Cerro Matoso S.A. (CMSA), the borrower
of the proposed Bank loan, as a Colombian corporation whose stock is held by
ECONIQUEL (45%), CONICOL (20%) and Billiton Overseas Ltd. (BILLITON) (35%).
All the assets, rights and privileges of the CONICOL/ECONIQUEL joint venture
will be transferred to CMSA. Prior to the loan negotiations, the Bank was
advised that the Colombian Government was willing to amend the concession
agreement to reflect the above transfer, the later project completion date now
envisaged and the consequent extension of the exploitation period. The formal
amendment of the concession agreement would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Sec. 7.01(a) and (b), draft Loan Agreement).
1/ Ecology and environrment protection are discussed in further detail
in paragraphs 5.35-5.38 of the Staff Appraisal Report.



- 16 -
50.       IFI, created in 1973, had at the end of 1977 an authorized capital
of Col$5 billion (US$118 million equivalent), equity investments of about
US$61 million equivalent, 30% of which are in the mining sector and loans
outstanding of US$75 million equivalent, while liabilities stood at US$23
million equivalent. IFI's Board of Directors includes representatives of the
Office of the President of the Republic, the Ministries of Finance and of
Economic Development, the Banco de la Republica, and Banco Central Hipotecario.
So far, IFI has financed all operations of ECONIQUEL. Since IFI wholly owns
ECONIQUEL, IFI's Director-General is ECONIQUEL's Chairman of the Board.
Representatives of the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and of other Government
agencies sit in ECONIQUEL's Board. ECONIQUEL's management is headed by a
Director-General, assisted by a seven-member Technical Committee; the current
incumbent is a former Financial Director of IFI.
51.       HANNA is a mining and transportation company with iron, coal and
nickel mining interests in the U.S., Canada, Brazil and Guatemala. At the end
of its 1978 fiscal year, HANNA had an equity of US$360.8 million, total assets
of US$498.8 million and liabilities of US$138.0 million. CONICOL is a U.S.
subsidiary of HANNA and Chevron. With the transfer of all existing project
assets from the CONICOL/ECONIQUEL joint venture to CMSA, CONICOL's purpose
would be limited to hold HANNA's shares of CMSA stock, although its shipping
and import staff are expected to play a useful role in expediting project
execution.
52.       BILLITON is a U.K. subsidiary of the Shell Petroleum Company Ltd.
As the metals and minerals division of the Royal Dutch-Shell Group (Netherlands/
U.K.), the BILLITON companies are engaged in the production of tin, bauxite,
lead and zinc and the sale of tin, bauxite, alumina, zinc and copper. Although
mining operations account for 90% of the group's turnover, its most significant
contribution would be in marketing the project's output (see paragraphs 66-67
below).
53.       CMSA operations will be conducted by a General Manager, under the
direction of a five-member Board of Directors (ECONIQUEL, 2; BILLITON, 2;
CONICOL, 1). In addition, he will rely on the advice of ECONIQUEL's Technical
Committee, especially as regards liaison between Colombian and expatriate
personnel, under an agreement to be signed between CMSA and ECONIQUEL as a
condition of loan effectiveness (Sec. 7.01(a), draft Loan Agreement). During
operations, CMSA is expected to employ about 720 persons, of which about 500
would be hourly paid and 220 salaried (about 60 in the mine, 186 in the plant,
230 in maintenance and the remaining 244 in management, administration and
miscellaneous services). CMSA would carry out, with the assistance of HANNA
and of the Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA), a Government training
agency, a comprehensive training program covering foremen, and operations and
maintenance personnel. A detailed training schedule, reviewed by the Bank
during negotiations, has been found satisfactory. Assurances have been received
that the training program will be carried out (Sec. 4.07, draft Loan Agreement)
and that technical assistance to CMSA for the purpose would be provided by
SENA or other entity acceptable to the Bank (Sec. 3.03, draft Guarantee
Agreement) and HANNA (Sec. 4.06, draft Sponsors' and Shareholders' Agreement).



- 17 -
54.       Although CMSA would be responsible for project execution and
operation, it would rely extensively on technical expertise from adequately
qualified sources (Sec. 3.02, draft Loan Agreement). During negotiations, the
Bank revieweol aad found satisfactory two draft contracts betvween CMSA and
Bechtel, of U.S.A., under which Bechtel would act as project manager and
provide engineering, supervision and procurement services. The draft contracts
cover 4,145 man-months of expatriate personnel services and 5,143 man-months
of Colombian personael services with an average cost of about US$3,900 per
man-month. The signature of these two contracts would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Sec. 7.01(a), draft Loan Agreement). In addition, about
154,000 man-hours of engineering services, primarily relating to infrail-ruc-
ture, are expected to be provided by INTEGk(XL. f,tda., a Colombian consulting
firm with extensive experience in Bank financed projects.  The selection of
mining methods and equipment, the establishment of mining and stripping plans
and the opening of the mine would be the responsiblity of HANNA, under a
management agreement to be signed between CMSA and HANNA as a condition of
loan effectiveness (Sec. 7.Cl(a), draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
55.      The presently estimated total cost of the project, including physical
conting-ncies, price escalation, working capital requirements through full
production and interest during construction, is equivalent to US$340.0 million
in April 1979 prices, of which US$216.2 million or about 64% represent the
foreign exchange component. This estimate includes a 6% sales tax on local
purchases and a 1% consular fee on imported goods. It is expected that the
project will be exempt from all other import and custom duties under the terms
of the Plan Vallejo, a 1959 export promotion scheme providing import tax
exemptions for equipment ancd materials when the finished products are to be
exported; if such exemption,, currently under negotiation with Governlinent
authorities, did not become finally available, import duties could add some
US$5-6.0 million to project costs and this increase would be comfortably
covered under the agreed financing plan (see paragraph 57 below).  The estimate
has been prepared on the basis of Bec'iL-2''3 June 1976 feasibility study,
updated in early 1979. An overall 8% physical contingency and an overall 10%
price contingency have been added to the April 1979 base cost estimate. This
is in line with other industrial projects recently appraised, where engineer-
ing desig: is already far advanced as it is in this case and, consequently,
reflects a relatively short implementation period.
56.      The total project cost, in April 1979 terms, excluding price
escalation, working capital and interest during construction, is about
US$6.0/annual lb. This compares favorably with other recent nickP-l projects.
Among greenfield projects, only FALCONDO, (Dominican Republic), which was
completed in 1971 at a capital cost per annual lb of around US$6.3 in 1979
terms, would be comparable. Cerro Matoso's competitiveness is a function
of the uniquely high quality of the deposit, the relatively low infrastructure
requirements and the comprehensive drilling and testing programs so far
carried out. No other greenfield project is likely to be realizeable for less
than US$10-12/annual lb in 1979 terms.



- 18 -
Financing Plan
57.       The financing plan shown in the Summary of this Report has been
agreed with the project's sponsors and co-lenders. The plan's structure
reflects earlier agreements reached with the sponsors when differences on
the cost estimates were relatively significant. These differences have now
been substantially overcome and, since the above plan adequately covers
the Bank's cost estimate, all parties have agreed to adhere to it. The
project's sponsors have undertaken an overrun financing commitment which
would make the total financing available exceed the Bank's cost estimate--
including contingencies--by US$105.1 million equivalent.
58.       The proposed US$80.0 million equivalent Bank loan to CMSA, which
would finance only 37% of the project's foreign exchange requirements, would
be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia. It would be repaid in 14 years,
including four years of grace. In addition to the standard interest rate
(7.9% per annum) payable to the Bank, it would carry a guarantee fee, payable
to the Government, which would be at the rate of 2.1% per annum on the US$
equivalent of the outstanding amount of the loan, as calculated for disburse-
ment purposes, but not less than 1% per annum on the US$ equivalent of the
several currencies owed to the Bank (Section 2.07, draft Loan Agreement, and
Section 3.04, draft Guarantee Agreement). The U.S. Export-Import Bank, in
association with private banks, would provide a US$25.6 million loan, repayable
in 13 years, including three years of grace, at 8-5/8% per annum on the Eximbank
portion and at 1-1/8% over the United States prime rate on the private bank
portion. A US$120 million Eurodollar loan would be provided by a private bank
syndicate headed by Chase Manhattan Bank of New York. It would be available
as a revolving credit for 3-1/2 years and then converted into a 6-1/2 year
loan, including one year of grace. It would bear interest at 1-1/4% over
LIBOR and it would carry the customary commitment, management and agency fees,
and a front end project fee of US$0.6 million. These terms are believed to
be more favorable than those which CMSA could have been able to obtain in the
international market had the Bank not been associated with this project.
Consequently, it is proposed to extend to the Chase Manhattan loan the benefits
of the Bank's co-financing policy (Section 6.01(g) and 6.02, draft Loan
Agreement). The effectiveness of satisfactory loan agreements between CMSA
and, respectively, Chase Manhattan Bank and U.S. Eximbank and its associated
private banks, would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) and
(e), draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The security arrangements for the proposed Bank loan and the loans
from the Chase Manhattan-led syndicate and the U.S. Eximbank and associated
private banks (hereinafter, the Lenders) include the appointment of one of the
Lenders, Chase Manhattan Bank, as Agent for all the Lenders. This agency
would not prevent Chase Manhattan from conducting any banking business with
CMSA. The security arrangements, in which the Lenders would share pari passu,
would consist of:
(a) the assignment to the Lenders of the equity contributions
undertaken by CMSA's shareholders and sponsors; this amount
would be released by the Agent as needed to meet the project's
capital expenditures and to service debt;



- 19 -
(b) the assignment by CMSA to the Lenders of all nickel sales
revenues, including revenues from the Billiton Sales Agreement
(see paragraph 67 of the Report);
(c)  a first mortgage in favor of the Lenders over all of CMSA's real
property and a pledge over all other physical assets of CMSA not
covered by the mortgage;
(d)  a floating lien in favor of the Lenders over all rights and
claims of CMSA not covered by the above security arrangements.
The Republic of Colombia would guarantee the Bank loan. Colombian law requires
that if a Government guarantee is issued for a company in which the Government
has less than a 51% interest such a guarantee must be secured. The guarantee
of the Republic of Colombiai to the Bank would be secured through the mortgage
and pledge described in sub-paragraph (c) above and the pledge by ECONIQUEL
of all its shares in the capital stock of CMSA. Action by the Agent (other
than receipt, investment and disbursements of funds), including foreclosure
of the liens described in sub-paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) above, would be
taken pursuant to instructions from a majority of the Lenders. This majority
would consist of Lenders who (a) together or individually hold at least 51%
of the outstanding principal of the Lenders' loans and (b) represent at least
two of the following three groups of Lenders: (i) the Bank; (ii) the U.S.
Eximbank; and (iii) private commercial banks holding at least 51% of the
aggregate outstanding principal of (A) the loan from the Chase Manhattan Bank
syndicate plus (B) the portion of the U.S. Eximbank loan held by private com-
mercial banks. The above arrangements with the Agent would be contained in
an Inter-Creditor Agreement to be entered into among the Lenders, the Agent
and CMSA as a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) draft Loan Agreement).
The fact that the Bank would not be entitled to exercise independently its
security rights under the arrangements described in sub-paragraphs (a) through
(d) above and the fact that Chase Manhattan Bank, one of the Lenders, would
also act as agent in the administration of the security arrangements will not
affect the Bank's security, especially since the Bank's loan would be fully
and unconditionally secured by the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia.
60.       CMSA's paid-in capital would be brought to US$35.0 million as a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(c), draft Loan Agreement) and
would be increased thereafter, in line with draw-downs on the long-term
loans (Section 5.05, draft: Loan Agreement), until the project is completed
or equity contributions reach an aggregate of US$200.0 million. The Bank
has received assurances that CMSA will receive adequate and timely equity
contributions from its shareholders (Sections 2.01 and 3.01, draft Sponsors'
and Shareholders' Agreemenlt), whose obligations would be guaranteed by the
project sponsors (Section 4.05, draft Sponsors' anf Shareholders' Agreement).
CONICOL's obligation to make equity contributions would be limited however,
to US$21.5 million; beyond this amount, CONICOL would have the option of
making additional contributions to maintain its 20% share or have BILLITON
make those contributions (in addition to its own) with a corresponding
decline in CONICOL's share (Section 3.01(c), draft Sponsors' and Share-
holders' Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
61.      A letter of intent for the dryer and kiln, which are expected to cost
about US$13 million equivalent, has already been signed with F.L. Smidth
(Denmark) after international competitive bidding (ICB), in conformity with
Bank guidelines. A letter of intent for the electric furnace package (for which
there is a small number of qualified suppliers in the world) has also been
issued to Elkem (Norway); the proprietary part of this package, including
engineering, is presently estimated at US$4.1 million in 1979 terms; Elkem
would bid the rest of the package internationally as eight sub-packages with a
total estimated cost, in 1979 terms, of about US$4.1 million equivalent. The
rest of the Bank-financed equipment would be procured through ICB, except
for approximately 16 equipment packages, totalling about US$2.4 million equiva-
lent and individually estimated at less than US$0.25 million equivalent, which
would be procured through international shopping also in conformity with Bank
guidelines. Other equipment packages would also be bid internationally,
except for certain items--expected to total around US$20 million--which CMSA
would prefer to purchase in the United States and which would, therefore, be
financed by the U.S. Eximbank. Colombian manufacturers are expected to supply
about US$10 million, or 14%, worth of equipment and bulk materials; local
bidders would, under ICB, be given a margin of preference equal to 15% or the
duty applicable to non-exempted importers, whichever is less. It is also
expected that there will be 18 civil works, installation and erection contracts,
totalling about US$29.1 million equivalent which, although bid internationally,
are likely to be awarded to local contractors. The gas pipeline would also be
bid internationally, probably as a turnkey package.
Disbursement
62.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures on, or, in the case of local manufactures, 90% of the
ex-factory cost of, the dryer and kiln, the electric furnace, and other
plant equipment and bulk materials; and (b) 100% of foreign expenditures
on the proprietary gas pipeline and engineering services in Colombia. The
Bank would finance retroactively expenditures incurred by CMSA after August 1,
1979 on the down-payments for the dryer, kiln and electric furnace, in an
amount not exceeding US$2.0 million equivalent. Assuming that disbursements
start during the last quarter of 1979, they are estimated to be completed by
mid-1983.
Financial Performance
63.       Production projections are based on three mining stages over a
25-year life which would yield about 49.8 million lbs of nickel annually
during the first stage and 45.3 million lbs and 56.9 million lbs respec-
tively during the second and third stages.  These projections assume 90% plant
availability on average, with allowances for kiln relining every seven years
and furnace relining every ten years. However, effective capacity during the
first two years of operation has been projected at 66% and 87%, respectively,
to allow for start-up problems and plant modification. In view of HANNA's
long involvement with this project, HANNA's extensive pilot tests and the fact



- 21 -
that the project is not particularly complex, the projected learning curve is
considered realistic. Based on it, the plant is expected to reach 100% of
design capacity by 1985. The operating cost per lb of nickel at full produc-
tion has been projected at US$0.97 in April 1979 prices. This cost is sub-
stantially lower than the costs actually incurred by the most comparable
existing project (FALCONDO, Dominican Republic 1/, US$1.14-US$1.46 during
1973-75, in April 1979 terms), mainly because of (a) higher grade ore at Cerro
Matoso (2.6% Ni versus 1.6% at FALCONDO); (b) power at FALCONDO being inter-
nally generated with imported fuel oil; (c) the use of domestic coal as a
reductant versus imported naLphtha at FALCONDO; and (d) the greater efficiency
of rotary kilns versus the F'ALCONDO shaft-type kilns.
64.       CMSA's financial projections are based inter alia on the following
information furnished to the Bank:
(a) CMSA will benefit from a depletion allowance in the form of a deduc-
tion from the taxable base equal to 10% of the mine-head value;
(b) according to the concession agreement, the annual royalty would
be 8% of the mine--head value of the nickel (see paragraph 49 of
this Report);
(c) under present Colombian corporate law, CMSA is required to
transfer 10% of net annual profits to a statutory reserve
until this reserve reaches 50% of CMSA's subscribed capital,
(d) under present Colombian tax laws, CMSA will be subject to a 40%
corporate income tax and a 0.002% real estate tax.
65.       Assurances have been obtained (Sec. 5.05, draft Loan Agreement) that
CMSA would not incur long-term debt prior to project completion or to the
exhaustion of the US$200 million sponsors' and shareholders' equity commit-
ment, whichever comes earlier, in excess of the proposed loans from the Bank,
the U.S. Eximbank and the Chase Manhattan Bank. Moreover, until CMSA's paid-
in capital reaches US$75.0 million, the debt/equity ratio would not exceed
50:50; once paid-in capital reaches US$75.0 million, the ratio would not
exceed 73:27; further equity contributions required under the financing plan
(see paragraph 60 above) would bring this ratio down again. After project
completion or after exhaustion of the above commitment, whichever comes
earlier, CMSA's debt/equity ratio would not exceed 60:40. In addition, it has
also been agreed that: (a) until three years after project completion, CMSA
would not make, without the Bank's approval, capital investments (other than
those required by the project) exceeding US$10 million equivalent in any one
year (Sec. 5.07, draft Loan Agreement); (b) CMSA would not pay or declare any
dividend, repurchase its stock for cash or make payments or advances to its
shareholders: (1) in excess of net profits after taxes less transfers to
statutory reserves; (2) if after such payments, declaration or repurchase,
CMSA's debt to equity ratio exceeds 60:40 or if CMSA's current ratio would be
1/   Financed by the Bank, Loan NO. 646-DO, FY70.



- 22 -
below 1.3:1 or (3) if there shall be a default in the service of CMSA's debt
(Sec. 5.06, draft Loan Agreement); and (c) CMSA's shareholders shall exercise
their rights to cause CMSA to perform the above obligations and shall refrain
from any action which would prevent, or interfere with, the performance of
such obligations by CMSA (Sec. 4.01, draft Sponsors' and Shareholders'
Agreement).
The Nickel Market
66.       Nickel market prospects for the next few years are modest.  During
1971-1978 prices showed a marked downward trend which bottomed-out at an
average of about US$2.01/lb, or 66% of their historic record in 1971. During
the first quarter of 1979, prices showed an upward trend and, by June,
had reached a US$3.00/lb level. However, it would be premature to expect
this trend to firm up considerably in the medium term, given existing sur-
plus capacity that is expected to continue until the mid-1980s. Nickel
prices are likely to remain depressed through the early 1980s; they are
expected to be at approximately US$2.95/lb (in constant April 1979 terms)
by 1985 and to continue at about that level thereafter.
67.       Nevertheless, the project is considered sound both economically and
financially. As presently conceived, the project enjoys several significant
advantages. In the first place, the 2.7% average nickel content of the
orebody is almost double that of most other competing prospects and considera-
bly better than many existing operations, which would ensure substantially
lower operating costs (see paragraph 63 above). In the second place, the
relatively low infrastructure requirements, including access to Colombia's
interconnected power grid, would permit this project to be built at signifi-
cantly lower capital costs per lb (see paragraph 56 above) and also result in
lower operating costs (see paragraph 46 above, concerning the importance of
power tariffs). In addition, the marketing of substantially all of the
project's output would be assured through a take-or-pay contract to be entered
into between CMSA and Billiton Metals and Ores International B.V., a Netherlands-
based subsidiary of the Shell group, which would market the ferro-nickel
primarily in Western Europe and Japan for 13 years after start of commercial
production. Under this contract, CMSA would be paid an average of actual
sales prices in the several markets minus a commission which represents 6.5%
of the nickel price at current levels but which would taper down to 5% at
prices of US$5/lb (in current terms) and up. Although under this arrangement
the price risk would remain with CMSA, the company would be free from the risk
of excessive inventories primarily in the initial years when it could least
afford them. The Bank has already reviewed a substantially negotiated draft
of the contract and signature thereof, on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sec. 7.01(a), draft Loan
Agreement). On these bases, the project's viability appears well assured.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The project's estimated financial rate of return, before taxes,
is 17%. This return assumes price discounts of 5% and 3% during the first and
second year of operations to allow for initial problems with quality control;
if this quality problem does not materialize, the return would be 19.7%. A



- 23 -
sensitivity analysis which includes increases in capital costs or in operating
costs of 20% in each case would bring the return to around 14%. On the other
hand, a 20% reduction in projected benefits would reduce the return to 10.3%.
The return on the shareholders' equity investment, after remittance taxes on
dividends, would be 22% for ECONIQUEL and 19% for Billiton and CONICOL.
An increase in capital costs of 20% would reduce these returns to 19.2% and
16.4% respectively while a 20% reduction in projected benefits would reduce
the shareholders' return to 18.6% and 15.8% respectively. An economic rate of
return of approximately 19.4% has been calculated for the project. A 20%
increase in capital or operating costs would not impair the economic viability
of the project.
69.       The project would provide employment for up to 1,800 workers during
implementation and to about 720 during operation, in a rather remote provincial
area. It would also provide improved infrastructure (power, roads, airstrip)
and social services (hospital, sewage) and encourage growth of up- and down-
stream domestic industries (quarrying, housing, road and river transport,
refractories, steel fabrication). In an average year of full production, net
foreign exchange inflows are expected to be about US$68 million in 1979 terms,
which would support Colombia's export diversification policies. In the longer
term, the workers' training program and the management skills generated by the
project are likely to spread throughout the mining sector and benefit other
natural resource industries (e.g. petroleum and coal).
70.       At full production, the split of benefits would be approximately
75:25 in favor of the Government and its agencies (including ECONIQUEL).  This
split of benefits, and the financial and economic rates of return, are consid-
ered satisfactory since the project's technical risks would be small. The
orebody is well-known and of an exceptionally high grade. Mining would be
straightforward and carried out with the assistance of HANNA, which has had
extensive similar experience. Ore processing, likewise, has been extensively
studied and the final choice of the rotary kiln/electric furnace route is the
product of detailed pilot plant work. In terms of technical risk, the only
area where some concern remains is the availability of adequate power at the
time of project start-up, for which the agreed arrangements (see paragraph 46
above) appear adequate. The market for nickel is, however, likely to remain
depressed and it must be considered possible that prices might not rise as
fast in real terms as has been assumed (the annual average rate of real
increase projected is approximately 5% from 1978 to 1985). Nevertheless,
after 1983, CMSA would remLain able to service its debt from internally gener-
ated funds even if prices were 30% below the projected levels. Indeed, if
there were no increase in real terms from the US$2.13/lb levels prevailing in
early 1979, CMSA would still be able to maintain a debt service ratio of 1.3
and above.



- 24 -
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and CMSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, the draft
Sponsors' and Shareholders' Agreement between the Bank on the one hand and
CMSA's shareholders', and IFI, SHELL and HANNA, on the other, and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.       Special conditions for the proposed loan have been referred to
throughout this Report and are summarized in Section III of Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 25, 1979



-25-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            1138.9                                                         SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      225.6                                     MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME          INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb          REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     210.0        360.0      720.0            1074.6        926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        491.0         606.0      685.0             943.1       730.7        1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         15.8         21.3       24.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOITAL) 48.2            59.8       65.5              59.3        49.0          51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            38.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER S0. KM.                           14.0         19.0       22.0              23.5        44.6          28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        71.0          93.0      109.0              80.5       140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            46.0          46.8       38.0              40.9        41.3          35.4
15-64 YRS.                            51.0          50.5       59.0              54.4        55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.0          2.7        3.0               3.9         3.5           5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  3.1          3.0        2.1               2.4         2.4           1.7
URBAN                                 6.0/j         5.2        3.9               3.7         4.5           3.0
CRLDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.0         36.0       30.0              32.8        31.1          27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         14.0         11.0        8.0               8.5         9.2           9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.2          3.2        1.8               2.4         2.2           1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         115.4      263.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..               ..       48.6              17.7        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             97.0          99.0      107.0              99.4       104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      94.0         92.0        94.0            107.0        105.3        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             50.0          51.0       45.5             60.4         64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          28.0         29.0        36.8             28.3         23.5         31.3
CHILS (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         17.0         13.0        9.0               6.7         8.6           5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.0             58.5       62.0              63.6        60.2          65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ..           ..       98.O/j            76.1        46.7          45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *          63.0       64.0              63.4        60.8         69.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..       73.0              79.5        75.7         85.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..       46.0              38.6        40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TO'IAL                                  *-         47.0       48.0              58.8        46.0          70.1
UFRAN                                   ,,         75.0       73.0              77.8        46.0          88.3
RURAL                                   ..          8.0       13.0              24.5        22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2400.0        2170.0    1820.0             1841.9      2262.4        1343.2
POPLLATION PER NURSING PERSON        3740.0        2040.0         ..             933.7      1195.4         765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               580.0         510.0      530.0             563.4       453.4        197.6
URBAN                                   *.     -             320.0             279.4       253.1         260.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..    9670.0             1140.9      2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         23.0       25.0              25.7        22.1          17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ''          6.0        5.7/              5.0         5.3           4.7
URBAN                                   ..           ..        5.57I             4.8         5.2           4.4
RURAL                                   *-           *-        5.9/f             5.3         5.4           5.1
AVERAGE NlUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   *-           '-        1.8/j             1.3          1.9          1.1
URBAN                                   ..           ..        1.6/t             1.3          I.E          1.2
RURAI                                   *-            -        2.4fl             1.5         2.5           1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT'
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 47.0/f         .-       58.1/'            54.3
URBA N                               83.OTT          ..       87.               80 I
RURAL                                  8.07T         *-       13.2t             14.2        17.3



-26-                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
WDUWA - SOCWL INIC*OU DMU  I
COLL4T                      nwWXM=   W                 |
NMST   CUET      CIARIC    IlcU            ICIIC
1960 /b     1970 Lb nTITI /b         33ION /c   610  /d    GW? /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 77.0       100.0      106.0           107.3      102.5        101.7
MALE                 77.0        98.0      103.0           109.1      103.6        110.0
FEMALE               77.0       102.0     109.0            107.4       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        23.0       35.0            40.5       33.5         51.2
MALE                 13.0        23.0      35.0             40.4       38.4         56.4
FEMALE               11.0        22.0      35.0             39.0       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  31.0/h      21.0       17.0            18.5       11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           38.0        38.0       30.0            37.1       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                         11.0        17.0       19.0            17.9       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       63.0        73.0       81.0            77.4       64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        11.0       16.5            29.1       13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       139.0       105.0      119.0           172.1      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        38.0       51.0            67.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 56.0       109.0       69.0            76.1       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        6.8             4.2        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     5100.0/f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  18.9        24.6       24.6            21.5       25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.4        37.9       31.0            30.2       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.2        21.0      23.0             23.8       21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.6        29.7       29.7            30.9       33.5         33.8
MALE                                49.8        44.9       44.7            47.3       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                              11.6        14.6       14.6            13.3       16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7/f        1.7       1.6             1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
PECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/f i    31.9/i      ..             23.7       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/Ti    60.17i       ..             58.7       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.171:      3.571       ..             2.9        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8/fi    10.171        ..             9.9       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    267.0             265.6      270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      197.0           185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      214.0           396.3      282.5        550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      267.0           308.1      248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       34.0            35.2       20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..            46.6       35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
5Ts
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-wseighted sometric seans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Cowerege of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Es not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;   /d  Intertediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /c  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1964;   La  1951-64;  /h  Includes teacher-training at
the third level;   /1  Economically active population;   /  1973.
Phy. 1979



-27-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
pIFIIYITIONS OF SOCILAL DtfICATOilb
Octt    Iotoghthedat  ar  dowofra  tarct gnan lv  idt.   ot.  nitautontattoeatoreiabe,  t  ba, Iddla  b  noedhha  thn otdtt-e i-tIda
fata>.  aapaehletecaan  t to  lac  ofstacardted  ettotion  an  conept  use  ho  i tereo  rauiri. tocollctig  Undate   nfe_daa ar. nnathiea
Oeartc  rdneat  agitde  tdittetrnd.-nd  haacane ts.cetan  ajr ft ernct  etwen...tie
ad tato doct  cenaac tt eac  md ceto  seapopuet io-oeihtsdgasaric   anp   e.ltc 1-dinghthe enret  etoe                                    ..o.Ld rao.ad.h noe _ppuatd
fhr n-ipplani   cao  c      oc  te o-rcea -o_etna-    eono thei ndictors det..nds -n ao-aiiekilitto   aaadm   o  uifr    ato at  beexeroined
LAND AILEA ttoaan  s. 
T.ta1 - Tota  striat        are  oapntatn  iad ara  and jettd eaneea.                                        ."I
galutei- Most rena...a ni atao   gial        'a easadeeel                          pasal as-117     pea.C . at eir enspeceg    pqenidail.  2eaen. dispansi
atParsoetin  for cr p. pattna, macbat and ktbtnie  maria a  en                        m   imeteda eke e=ilata  ad dispotsal,  etS er etibftt trieflgtaf
us  taunt                                                                             bell   nneta end eaae-itar by aater-beeea apeRm, an else a   at pit
peit.id  ad aiitr i.atallaeia.
CO   t  APITA  CII  - IS  P petnaiti  alaa   tOW5tmes   ee.                         m e1n..s   Peaeatiine  dindad by e-A.r of pra..einig phyat-
ailttitd by aaM     nneao --     atbodh as Wand   Anktna(195-77 basis);                                       a mdleal ias.ehi at satnrsitp tassl.
i99C, 19ff. and 1977 dat. :.ptot!n                                                              IS  I apai _g ene     - fpl.ntaian Sitidad by nar, at praneteing
..I A. --d hyd, ..al.ed flagrdmtaincns,..a.ial  eeas  a   asisan ganee
isio   f   SkP- OlPER CAPITA-tnAI. nosmno    fonoa  esg    na                      eaatnie b           del, bad- lNai  a tanaenni-  esae.     (mmii,
and 1976 data.                                                                            abtltee  rentbra.  Ildaptinaseat        eeitln pa-rmanesti,h p"  Itoftd  by-
POPULATION 0N10 VI'O                                                                       b"TIICSan"tat al phytetaeldl. aakiiee   pranlidiag  PeteolpaltyI  .toiedial
Totai poetition  ndnafeioni-aof JolT  i. 19kG, i970, ad                                            :-iar   a  Phiisolte. kaa    eptl,-beas , p.tenip MCb  ndmai
19'dat.                                                                               l caters eon pennnatly staffed by a  bertniotb    sdol a-
-ra    ooaio   erato  ctl      ai  otuban to tot.s  popnLiattn,                          sistae,   -aa  sidatfa, ato.t  hbieh offer i-paiian-tradte    n
differen  deftIoition  of "rbn arias may affint tpasb iltyp of data                   penir      ai=mina   aaaofidnltattia
uorcntie,1960. 1970 and 1975 date..gdtani  a   asItbe -;I  Total ebCan ofadatninordlanhang
Poeoiatton Profactione                                            ire~~~ft   boepitais dinided by tha .-M,a of bds..
I05ttlp-pohaioni   g  aed   oad  ibar   na                   L      C ad tenility  ALUM
rtet   Poecio    ornetrsfo  eotafy   atscarietfI   els              AnnaaalatibosnbidIarmn   erbnnbndi-inatuba, dPtr. 
cone  lecit  an  ten,aie iliacopso tanty  sabiiietng at  7.5 years.had CbsIn mate -aLe.  A boardaro  Indor nay or  ay          t b. teciadad In tAe
toattto    ton  fetlty  rat  als  bat                                          -.haaascis  dois  bncod f.r statitinal p-npes..
to 'ot i t. ocaringto inse leoe  and raat taiin  planning per-                onees- nka  of ana  ear en  -tt.ora   and ret--                         oag   tne
t,.ranc.  Ech cunty i  then oatio-d _Cn of nba. 9 retatn                         f peraons par roa  to ail, ark., and ruracl oouta  oretin 1 dwellings.
-otliocd  -tt I it  treds  o   roeto I-por- sa                  pnriey    faig    nit  Zipaeaansrs  oa   n   nvaidprs
ocuioe t  Onolttot-toto  ioe    P Ppulation, there Is tO gr_oh            gon   oeettintaretn    eitai-toa.ube   n   ea 
tcrcccrteaiocoooar.    hit to  -chio-d only offer frtlility tit-              tonai, ura      -ad rore1 dnaeiipg -.rnptto-ly.
canra tn  t  tton  epame  tnefoati.   he Statio.tay Pepu             EDatiICn
toeoa  nt wate  o  t   act  f the pro jectid ohuarsotsrtsfts   f the      kdimt.id  enoietetina
nonutt  in  hn  ear  700,andthe rat  of denli-e offriiyrt r0r   oot-ttin Cnd ftsI-tinestotal  sal  aed fanal  enroi-
o_r.tatintaryP-rotIon is teanhad -The.eroe  OtaienrnPoh-a                              e-ho-a-S  popa.iai-s  nnii           -niodea chtldra  aged 6-il years hut
ti-n oo- hen-        -onuthad.                                                        adjoat.d ion ,d!ifferen  iagtha uf prinary Idnro.tnctna  with
Poncianion density                                                unloersaledutet ion~~~~_I-   :   -elim-c  nay anoand tOn pero  si- o  apoptia ars
Pert.he    Mid --na   toa  r nPer tq__eoi- ta   100 betrtt                             belo   u  aboo  th, of!i,t c1    kn1 o  age,.9j
.f total  .re.                                                                       taonse  shbei  _ oa    ana ttale  - fonota  as, above,                           d
In  ~. ot trooioctLuod - tanp-nd at ah-  ton  griculturl tand                    tion raquirsat It.aen foss yanra of ipo-d prmayte_ration  pnIdit
Ierfoca t.16. 197_ end 1971 data.                                            iont.   iodaatia1l, or t.bhe peagrn  thieh operaa Indapandne-lo  a
FPteu-tio  oto, ttrat   teeoetttol'l- Aorual   ot-th tiest  totsi                       dnnaat   f esnondasyinnona
nid-y,.  -ocatoafor 1950-ho, 1960-7ic, and 1970-7.                                   alt-aabr  atn-  riay.an              .anndr    1-1Ttlsfdet   nodi
po    f-oto    o  1970-hO. 1960-TO, and 1970-l.                                 spodi   I.anIa..
.c,tttccntorct.cuan-.n  ""I lice  intha  m   t~h-ted of                     uduIn ILTiaat  rats .    rai   %it.rats aduita  tabisto rea:d and ariLat a
<-ro   ppcti_  196t.  f'o  -nd lo7t deanprctgaotrs  adalt popolation agd 15 yaaaad  vr
oart -,- cooad-..Iusdea,h.tparfhoasandofaid-
ter  oleio - , 1h60. 1970 and 797' da ta.                                    c
lnyrnotneI rrro..ctic  peiod If0osepeice  pnesentng-                          si .ig      .a than aigbt person; seIodas          I--laca., hsare and nIliter
tpocicc  trrilcforeen   ocallhoe-ear  oeraee eding It 190               oehioiaV
lOtO. and 10%.                                                 gs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rdio Ic i,ar  tIor thoaaand  Aloaiot-ol types of rece.o-rs  for radIn
had   lan_      raostr.atu    ibaad C- t-ua1-utkerof -oadast  to                                           - g Ierllph    pen thoaaand ofpopulation; anidaolin.es.d
oltntlni prctran.                                                e~~~~~~~~~ffeot  data forrcn   ar   a  nrh   oprbaioieaousrs
Fonily pinlno--      ort  to rsn   at naroid  -ama     - P-rro-ge ot                    abuisbdlcoi
d-ctsst  oh7    --rird a-i   Inon  age grop.                                           pahMitpa  thns"       peph atn;sanada  a-i-tasa  TOI rarsitare  in ta.-
Osof.od             Poucih  e   -arlta (19k9-C1 s idol -i tese of Par capita        tion  f 'daily gS,sra1 intar-  stwpap.Ir, deiad as a preidical pebii-
ans  producion of :i   on   aaot ie   P-nd-ction  soldna saednd..                   ctton deo-td priearily  tn re.cding *nnra  eaes   It Is tenoid-rd no
e.g. -udocan - ot-eed   of             C ',i--               Il-8~-1,1                                               Il     - ti agart ohich at.  dlhie aed cota in  _utr..nt  Cissamaadna_  atsdao  stcaia      -nan-.a.ad ow tbe eMber of Itiktn
coffe  and asa are eon ld dt   Aggra*ase prd-dtfo  of  -ah coonty                sold darin  nbn year, iscIoding adatasit    to drie-inn ina    aed abill
oandonntional aoetag  prodcer prine tights                                       onti.
ford;.'    aioletpletcnrcediei  prodarnio, import  tes                                  ana foroe  (thbottaud t   -   oitally atinsproa   nsioldaig annd
qaottcnd to fod'.    ceso  sod I.a... In distribution.  Os-tin inorwacneisrtetapsb.
_crewno   ee  tchetd ho FAot h..ad ow phn,olui -lneds fornr.Pmi lnont) - teats  labor ftnrc  asp                               tgs of itota  labor forne
yal atti lot andhealth cnniderigeootrtstal tanlnature,body           sriooitarn iaartn.. )- Laborm.i   anig  f-renr. btnting ad fisbino
.etr    tntd tndisroiin   f Popultion, end s1ooing  10 par-                   aspreng   fft L                Ibo  fot.
.cfor  _atna  ho... dh old iroalInduite  t                                                      snt-tboo fern, In nin.-cntroctia,                 mnlatrigad
Per catica tuolo of orotein Cost-  dent - Irotetn   ntoof pa                              lcnnSy ar   es  gsapmnsfsnf total laortota
Ra q.ion . teueens Tun  ii1 cntia- established by Ol  proida fa                   anidyrta  rb-e    s  aa,ei,afl    ae  foo.s
alint  nbwns  fItgr6       tftoat     rtanprda.n   0  ia                       p dnsa  o   oa,  eaad  eanpeaatn  fslager.anday
ocaimlad  oeprti,  futihi  gmeowdh  aia  poen,                             lAd 9t      n   So ai.Tms  r   tdsprP.p'ierta    alate
tneandar.oeI. te.     tan tlho   of l  gram hot tota  protet  anCg-a   toer   ftep.                             usio      n   ogtesnd               e   aia
It pietat  nnel notera hoo -rag   ton gthn fe.rd, prpon  hyatio    ainlsaoe
It the Third corld  toott barony.~tC
I         19onloAsadan rato    R tio  fpplto    se   Iad6   n   oet
facca ric  erotelo  ooelh trat aoiunaiand tulee- Protsisaprly  offoam  the  abor fove  in age goop of dilbe yaana
Chl  se _-t.attsito rate loon thnadt - tn-1a deaths  e  thou-
anC   t  g  top  -  oearc . toI chtldrno  in tlia  age goIp,; for  oa
-ee -ritecot-cr  data dance.d iron Ife to_smstnaao   roseln                                                     ohi   ahad bind) 1 r-t-id by n1hitbes
prst, rio= -  2  pennnt  porast 20 peret-. and praf40 per.teo
(EOLIO                                                                                    ofHwetla
100 at ,,rh  190.lut   ndtO   dat.                                              OnERTY TARGET CLRMPS
raIyte C oat hta!Aaandj - on-ua1 danthe     infant  ueden                El tainid anlt   oec    naIoitb   a  ctsita rUa  a   rorsi-
ooertpapletoal  urban, and ror it oith rthaan-bieatos!1tt                     oftirdohis
ycottsortcd  utncsoo  nttho  frn potn tn  hoshoan.opIng.                 efadia    dtt      q post. di., pioe. ..e. tea-thir .dofogenrcpt
or  roa  crnac...,l   tottain  o  staedoet ltatad   ot nos cha   Fteonidtef  sdfa Cosot f r  -ib-rcoa-o Itin  inor a
Ott -b  '<toO  Ar  --enteto.  the  tottsentd d  to    d f cefnpe
f-ill ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ti nI'titad -rfofon tprat



-29-
710   11.9. Of US6  ollar)
A-toa                                    U.91.06.                PralaCtd                    Am-,a.        1 Ow l 4. h5 Sara                  A. P.nge of GDP
1967-69
-oor.g            L15'             1976             1977             1976             1979             1983        76967-697.74   1976-78          1979-63      1975          1978            1985
4270006L ACCOUNLTS                                                                    1976 P.I... 098 EOroba.A. ga-
--0,    Tood-. z                    ,660            14,567           15.236           15,971           17. 249          18.391          23.960              6.5          6.4.            6. 8      100.0         100.           100.0
421.    270af  -d2.)                .751               -699             .697                              422               83           ....A                                                         LB...... ~ J~  2.9           0. 6
Cr~~o.  ~~~   7oo,o,e          0.~~3900         13,696           1526             16,668           17.671           18.476           23,920             7.4           7.7             6.5        99.2        102.4            99.4
Iop~~~>  (N~~l.  005) ~~1,491                    2 .047           2,302            2.418            2.882            3. 200           4.270             7.5         11,9             7. 5        16.1         16.7            17,9
ExtooC.1001.  051 (lp. C.0o10,(  1.419          -229                              :.0-99                            Z2akj3.7                             .3          10.              2. 5       15.9         19.
69,7,77. C.T                     70~~~~~~~1      .250             .400             -681             -496              13593                             ---                                      1.7           2. 8          41
7,707,0.. Eope,,d77,,e,        7~~.320          10.908           11.579           12.500           13.309           14.037           18.536             6. 5          7. 2           7,2         76. 9        77. 2           77.6
1177601                     ~~~~~~           ~~1,6.  2,740     3.177            3,427            3,876            4.303            5.850             11.7         10.5             8.0        18.9          22.5           24.4
,50      2.990           3,657            4,108            4.362            4.437            5.267             10.1          9.2             4.4        20.5          25.3            22.0
507(7701 7~~~~~o7~~gr     1.509 ~~2.924                      3.399            3,881            4,209            6,2B1             0.012           11.1          11.2             6.2        19.4          24.1.           20.9
wvO660ISt TWAE                                                                       A,2.6  Doa or Cur-eo  P1i...                                                                                             A. P.-c   .8 tota
COolla- (Dd                              290               583              971              927            1.281            1.94%            2.629            10.4          38.             13.2        90. 9        67.4            46.9
1--o,di-O  C7od   (E-,701- Trr           25                609              733              772              639            1.040            6.829            214            951.3.                     42.7         32.5            12.A
N,.1. .Dd 9.Ca-d Maeial,                    3                15             129              196              253              434              795            12.'2         40.0            24.0         1.1           9.6           13.9
Gorao,oo40.                         61               218              214              335              291              289              397            18.3         26.6             hl          15.3         10.8             7.1
70.  5057.0e 1-770    (C1F)    608             1,25             2,47             Tta                               3,254            5,75             Tr4                                                    W 3A'or 
07 061771   OtlOary 709949,    4019,           1,393)           1,82             2,41              :12,85          2,706            3.616     ~      146I 5       23 6             6.7         82.1         86.5            79.5
771,27    077.                           341               (761           11,282)           L7607          (204               L1874          120647           11I7           72701           (2.2)      746.5)        (63.2)          44.
077.1  roo77fldtre67700t,  O-)    606             1,717           Y.32 1            7+W              3W               32329            4.569            192          29               8.1        10.          100.0           100.4
..........O 7....                          21.)              73.9            100.0            141.4            135.0            129.0            154.7
7p7o~~  777 Ct Cod,,.           34~~.0            90.0            100.0            109.6            118.1            125.8            1:61.0
f.,,C  Ir7  lod..                      42.3              77.1            100.0            129.0            114.3            102.5            96.
04100 ADDED IC SECTOR            C-)(0007                       ....Ia  Dt.- .: 1976 . fri... orr  ft,M-=  M-r.                                                      AOra.40            9    2.,8               A. P-Oo.-, .  Tota
dS7I,.,11,Or                 2,~~~     ~      ~~923  4,145      4.224            4,330            4.719            4,855            6109              2.8           5              5.          30.6         29.             27.7
7,7D...,.tCao.7 507,70      2,~427             3.B33            3,933           4.007            4,434            4,744            6.430              67           627.9                      2.            27<              0.
S-1-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .w ~~5.558                               5.9.             6,347            6.029                                              1 .8159       7.2             7.0        42.1          42.7            63.1
-707                                   9.509            13.536           1412             14,761           15,982           1.3              2.005.1                          6.5            6.8        100.0        100.0           1000
PU047C Fi-COI                                                          A...[2 DoI.a  C-1-I  PELt...                               .A. PMr-aO    t ..OP
C- r- a-P,:                         4)3             1.502            1.670           2,050             2,348           3.335            5.000             20.3         23.5            20.6         10 3         10.7            1524
E-0r7  000160-O,                    26                702              751              931            1,109           1.735            2 298             16.1         21.5             7 .2        4.0           4.7             5.6
71.50.7277 30,198.           ~~~~151            800              919            1.219            1.439            2.600            2.712            26.2         25.1            16.1          556.0                        5.8
1.r0P~T(,7  000007 SaxipA.  434               167              .97              .8                1 9              -s1-                                           --                          .               
I.71   rC3   7771207                 l                917            1.130            7.123            1.636            1.975,           3.406             0.6         20.1            16.6          6.3           0.9            8.5
70E.0007 702ICA7ORS                                           1965-TO          1976.78          1979.83
070020. OCT17 (Band 017 CTD.. Doan7l4o3.2                                     I3: 
1216.2 3,7. D.aO(               4~~~     ~~.25    3.219
100.oT7Cla.t70017 ~~~~~~~~~~~01.2                             1.9              1.10
SarrIral T.5e. 700 Sorlx6r 609.  0.20  0.33  14.9 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   %f  ~,                                                                           A      fT-
707g 707 007 loCal Sa7170r 007.  0.14  9.60            13.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DlrAl  MPUICSWTR  MCTH                                                                  A
2I. Milli...                 0. f TOtal            Cr0206 Ut.
1064            1573          2964            1873        1966.73                                                   10-12  S..,.,.                                   28 9                  26.5
Ag,rlt..to.                                      10.9                 10-I
2.427            2057          47.3            30.2         -2.                                                     Od.-vr 0,78 ttlt                                                       I   2
..D            1.1            18.7           1,8           2.7                                                     I-,r                                            24.20.
Se7*.'OCt                      ~~~~~~          ~    ~~1.749  3.4  34.          52.0         9.2                                                     Tr ...rr F- nd C- -.,I701-,                      14.                  is5
7T-(r                                     5.134            6.112        100.0           100.0          3.2                                                    Q5M,,                                             1.1                   5
T-I0 E2.0817o-..                               100.A                 100.0
".1-  A200  -0  Ao-k-  (1939 Prit.. art  Eohaa. 9.0...
07 D  Dolar.                                          Oro910 at.                                               067.1In
1064           1972                796                             1696.03
~~~~~03            11:4                                                                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,10  .77  002.6.    4
704,017,           1,037           2.752              1~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~35.2  148.1.                                                      Orh.r                                            18.0                 10.
5--lo                                1.730           1.546                23             9.               -1.2                                                0-IFL01     . P170,777                          100.0                t00.0
7,001                       2~~~~    ~    ~~~~~.359  1.717     10.0           100.0               1.0
2101. 17



AMNEX I
-29-                                                                    Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Acostots in  Millions of US Dollars at Correer Prices)
A.ctual                                           Estimated                            Projected
1972        1973         l974         1975         1976        1977         1978         1979         1980        1981         1982         1983
iL0MARY 6ALAIIC  (F PAY,SEWS
Exports  (il. NFS)                  1,207       1,548        1,858        2,165       2,782        3,397        3,992        4,197       4,213        4,640        5,I51        5,936
Imports (il. NFS)                   1,23b       1,424        2,072        2,030       2.302        2.723        3,413        4,026       4,70         5.373        6,019        6,875
RNsource Polarce  (X-il               -29          124        -214          135          488          674          579         171         -491         -733         -868        -939
Fa-rme  S-rvic-s                    -196         -215         -192         -263        -279         -264         -249         -265         -288        -356         -427         -923
roFisf                           (-72)        (-70)        (-55)       (-74)       (-115)       (-114)       (-118)      (-130)       (-145)       (-162)       (-182)       (-2019
plhr                             (-1261       (-145)       (-137)       (-189)      (-164)       (-150)       (-131)       (-135)      (-143)       (-194)       (-245)       (-322)
Csrrert Tramf-es (Net)                 35           35          55           48           21           29          20           20           20           20           20          20
Solooc-  am Curreot Acce       unts -190           -56        .351          -80          222         439          350          -74         -759      -1,069       -=,275       -_42
P-crotr Direct Iresmorrn              17           23          35           32           14          42           47           65           80          150         139          160
Public MALT Locns
,lc,tsrserrto.s                    354          412          380          383         272          374          276          887         850          828        1,145        1,411
- Rosoosec-s                          -96        -131         -208         -135        -152         -174         -247         -458        -351         -414         -4bl         -552
Net Dosbarsreeotr                  258          281          172          248         120          200           2q          429         499          414          690          879
Pcchm bibLT Looms
Sishb..rr-r-Lr                     139           60           50           76          65           87           43          117         163          203          306          393
- _aporr-ms                           -84         -58          -58          -87          -87         -83          -64         -118          -90          -98         -9j          128
Net Dijb-lrsrrrts                   5S            2           -8          -11         -22           -4          -21           -1           73         105          209          2h5
CGpimal Tra-h-crir-s n r.,.              24          -37        -237          -50          228          173          268         -            -            -
chIa-gc In N- Re.rve-
(- -  ncreasoc                  -16b         -213          389        -139         -562         -850       -673          -419         -107          450          Z,Ie         ISo
CRANT ANIS LOAN 7OMdMTMENTP S         1972        1973         1974         1975         1976        1977         1978
off i,i,l G--n     - .d
Grat-lik                           -            -            -            -           -            -
P4bli, cnd M.LT  ooas
IBRD                                74          1h2            8           88          80          306          390
IDA                                -            -            _            -           _      -                  -
(Wcarr Molciluitrrl                  39          29           b5            5           93          61           72
corrovercoms                      114           72           52           b6         132           63          105
boppip imm                           39          31           50           74          44           32           55
Pri-a-e Ba-kc                       93          190           61         164          169           65          140
bonds                              _             45
Puhlic  .o-s n.eo.c                -              1
Total Publi<: ei.r m - anr
LooEg-mrco   . 4. .                   350         530          236          3957         5N          527          702
EXTERKAL PLBLIC DEBT                               oistoodiog or 12131/27                            O,cts-erd-so 00 12/31/78
(Erpomob e io Pioren  r F-1 rrency            Disb-rsad Pol.               Percent              Disbursed Only                Percent
World Bank                                    716.2                    27.3                      751.4                    28.3
IDA                                            22.0                     0.8                       21.8                     0.8
crthrr iEcltilst-rol                          152.8                      5.8                     195.4                      7.4
.,ovrrnment -932.3                                                     35.6                     954.1                     35.9
s ,ppliorB 167.0                                                        7.1                      158.6                     6.0
Prcoacr Sanku                                 552.1                    21.1                      329.1                    19.9
BDcd,                                          47.7                     1.8                       37.2                     1.4
Public Orb's cei.                             11.b                      D                          9,5.7 294
romal l.m..cc Mmdl uc,-u An
loop,-zer  LA.I9                                412,621.                100,01                   2,657.3                   100.0
T'72           1q73           8924          197b            1976           1977           1970
DEbT ASS DUBD  SERLICE
P,cbli, Drbc
I-totndinui   amd Dib-csmd  'I              1,626.5        1,901.7        2,070.0        2,318.0         2,403.2        2,629.0        2,657,3
Interrsm 0n Pmrlcc Debt                          57.t           77,.2         101.1          111.7          122.8          132.0           141.1
Repaomeets 00 Pobi,c Debt                        96.3          131.4          207.5          135.3          151.8           173.5          246.9
Total FPblic Debt Seroito                       153.9          208.6          308.6          247.0          274.6           305.5          408.0
mhber Debt Serecco (ices)                       155.1          126.2          110.6           87.0            87.0           89.1           96.0
Ero-l Debt Secoi_c  (Nrc)                       309.0          335.2          427.2          334.0          361.6          394.6           504.0
BAm.men 00 E-oar  E-rsinD i     '
P,.blic   otmc  ,amem                          02.9           u.S            10.0           11.6            9.7            9.1           1. 2
Divot  Sort .Irroco                            2?.i           21.7           23.0           15.0           12.8           1l.6           12.6
Ocral DSb, Ser-ic- PIDe Ns
F        I-oocrceot I<omoe                   31.5           26.2           25.9           18.8           16.9           15.2           17.7
oiro-i-   -s   Prolr 1000
Bll m  u,st onding  rnd
Jishur.ed                                    -.2            4.7            5.3            5.3             5.3            .5             h.l
Elb-id - d.D                                                               10.9            b.4            0.5             ,.2           9.4
DIRD DbO  IIOs   -od-i, am.-
Di- b--r.d /1                                453.4           50.3          301.7          033.5          671.6          71t.2          751.4
1302D a. 71 Ibml Sob sOcom moodiog
oud lisbomoed                                  27.?           2b.5           27.1           07.3           27.9           27.2           26.3
IBRD it    PubLic Debt Seroic-                   30.9           29.1           24.1           31.7           31.2           30.5            23.4
iDA lLol 'iurtio,dinm  and
Scslcurre2 /l                                  20.9           .13.0          22.?           22.5           22.3           22.0            1
IA d' P.,blcl  Dabt octim-diog
acm, Dib.miod                                   1.3            1.             1.l            l.0            0.9            0.? 3.i
IDA  :m   cblim  -ebi Ser,ice                     0.3            7.2            '.0            5.2            0.2             0.1            7.1
Iou oS per.od.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)  -
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
47 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      724.2     23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                         Roads              32.0               1.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply        2.0                .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       88.0               5.6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation         2.2                 .9
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply        9.1               2.7
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               56.0                7.7
903     1973  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .8
920     1973  Colombia                         Education         21.2               11.8
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales         Railways          25.0                 .3
971     1974  Colombia                         Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0                .8
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       27.0              16.0
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de                             4
Telecomunicaciones            Communications   15.0                 1.0
1118    1975  Colombia                         Rural Settlement 19.5                10.1
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture       21.0               16.5
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   80.0                23.7
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.        52.0               43.4
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr. 64.0               40.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de              Communications   60.0               59.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   15.0                10.2
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways          90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition         25.0              24.0
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply        13.8               13.6
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              24.8
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power              126.0              119.0
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power             50.0              48.5



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial             Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena          Export          15.0               14.9
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.  100.0                97.8
1624    1979  Colombia                           Airports          61.0               61.0
1628 /2 1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0               84.0
1694 /3 1979  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            13.5               13.5
1697 /3 1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply       30.0               30.0
1725 /3 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.,A.               Power              72.0               72.0
1726 /3 1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply       31.0               31.0
1737 /3 1979  Instituto Colormbiano
de la Reformai Agraria         Agriculture Cr.  20.0                 20.0
TOTAL                                            2,189.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                           417.0       1.8
Total now outs'tanding                           1,772.6      21.7
Amount sold                          49.9
Of which has been repaid             23.9           26.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   1,746.6      21.7
Total undisbursed                                                     997.7
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                     Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board      0.50       -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                       Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961        Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans       0.70       -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                      Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961        Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50       -       0.50
1962        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                         financing         -   2.02        2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera              Development         -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                           financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de              Textiles         1.98   0.15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de           Development
Caldas                             financing         -   0.81        0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de              Warehousing      1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966        Industria Ganadera                 Livestock        1.00   0.58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles         5.00   2.60        7.60
1969        Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -   0.01        0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del          Development         -   0.45        0.45
Norte                              financing
1969        Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -   0.43        0.43
Valle                              financing
1970        Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism          0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism          0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing             -   0.46        0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.               Cement           1.50       -       1.50
1975        Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                          Mining           6.00       -       6.00
1977        Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities        13.00   2.00       15.00
1977        Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                 Construction
Material       2.43       -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                            40.31  13.35       53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             28.12   8.26       36.38
Total commitments now held by IFC                  12.19   5.09       17.28
Total undisbursed                                    -        -         -



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. P'ROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI: US$32 million, June 4, 1970.
Effective date:  March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. Six sections in the
program are still under construction, requiring about 190 km of paving.
Project completion is now expected for end-1980. The other components of the
project were completed with much less delay. As of June 30, 1979, US$30.1
million (94% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May  28, 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of June 30, 1979, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
All works are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be completed
by the end of 1980 and the Borrower continues to perform well.  Completion of
the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, however, is expected to be completed by
mid-1981. Disbursements up to June 30, 1979, amounted to about 94% of the
loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedv them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standinr that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
)f strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.  At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though the
most recent contractor is making progress.  Settlement of farmers within the
project areas is behind schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm
credit needs improvement. The closing date was extended after the Government
provided appropriate assurances that the above delays and problems will be
resolved.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of June 30, 1979, about 70% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution.
INSFOPAL has prepared a new implementation program for each city and it is
expected that this will accelerate the completion of works.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is virtually completed; the only remaining items are
the commissioning of the turbine-generating units, scheduled to be completed
in September, and some procurement of distribution equipment. After consider-
able delay in resettling the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the
Santa Rita reservoir was finally carried out in May 1978, three years behind
schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above appraisal estimate,
mainly occasioned by higher cost of the civil works. As of June 30, 1979,
US$48.3 million or 86% of the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully c:ommitted. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of June 30, 1979, only US$0.8
million remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted
a proposal to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of
the loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally
conceived. Project execution is now expected to proceed normally and total
project cost is projected to remain close to the appraisal estimate.
9.   Ln, No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
.4
Effective date: I)ecember 6, 1973
Closing date: original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
The freight traff.ic in ton-km has increased only slightly in 1978
over 1977 because of severe:Ly constrained locomotive availability. However,
CNR is making good progress in carrying out an action plan to this situation.
Pass-km of passenger traffic decreased by 11% due to the discontinuance of
several uneconomic passenger train services. As a result of substantial
tariff increases and reduced expenditures, CNR's operating ratio improved to
117.0 in 1978 from 147 in 1976. Average long-haul and train load have in-
creased; staff has been further reduced to 10,895.  The Government is assisting
the railways financially and, together with the Bank, is studying further
corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to fulfill its important
role in facilitating continued economic growth in Colombia, including provision
of necessary services for the planned exploitation of coal for export. As of
June 30, 1979 only about US$300,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 12, 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects and all sub-loans are now
underway. As of June 30, 1979, US$7.2 million or 90% of the loan had been
disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. In
spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in most
cities. Works are expected to be completed by March 1980. As of June 30,
1979, US$11.0 million or 41% of the loan had been disbursed.
12.  Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - December 31, 1979
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of earlier delays in procurement and building construction.
As of June 30, 1979, only US$1.0 million or 6% of the loan remained undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging.  Corrective measures are being discussed with the Government.  As of
June 30, 1979, USS10.1 million or 52% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project.  Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.  As of June 30, 1979, US$4.5
million of the loan amount had been disbursed.
15. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of June 30, 1979, about 71%. of the loan had been
disbursed.
16. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its third year of implementation and is fully
operational. The project's components of credit, technical assistance and
training are advancing very well, while institutional coordination continues
to be effective. The forestry and water supply components have suffered some
delays. Administrative procedures, such as procurement and disbursement,
continue to present some difficulties, but they are much less serious than in
the first year. Control and monitoring of project execution is comprehensive,
and a methodology for evaluating the project's impact has been prepared.  As of
June 30, 1979, US$8.6 million, or 17% of the loan had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
Nearly all the funds assigned to medium and large farmers have
been committed. The Borrower has recently taken steps to increase the number
of subloans made to small farmers and this portion of the loan is expected to
be fully committed by 1980. Concern over possible diversion and substitution



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
of subloan funds led the Borrower to substantially increase its end-use
supervision. Onlending interest rates have been recently raised to levels at
which real interest rates are becoming positive. About half of loan funds for
credit to agroindustries have been committed for 48 subprojects. As of June
30, 1979, US$23.3 million, or 36% of the loan had been disbursed.
18. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, and design of buildings
to house equipment. The Borrower is studying possible ways to make up some
of the tLne lost. As of June 30, 1979, US$59.0, or 98% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.
19. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiLvkh-";- ;iinly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and by June 1979 about
US$9.4 million of Bank funds had been committed. As of June 30, 1979,
US$4.8 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effecti,ve Di ).-: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
starting to develop satisfactorily. Preliminary stabilization and drainage
work-; are completed; contracts for 14 of the 34 constrat L:ton lots have been
signed and works have commenced. The maintenance program is scheduled to
begin in September 1979. Consultants to assist MOPT in executing the program
have been retained.  The vehicle weight control program has e>xwr> 
i 12-month delay but progress is now satisfactorv.  D} ii-otation to disburse
about US$4.6 million has been processed as of August 29, 1979, compared to no
disbursements on June 30, 1979.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Evaluation systems are operating effectively.
22.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
is delayed. EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue
in the implementation of the project. In June 1979 the Bank and EMCALI agreed
on an action plan designed to restore the entity's financial viability and to
improve management and administrative procedures.
23.       Ln. No. 1558 Urba,n Development Project; US$24.8 million, July
21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 change of Government led to corresponding staff turnover
in the executing agency and to slow project start; overall progress is now
running about 18 months behind schedule. Project implementation plans in
six of the 23 cities are suabstantially completed and it is expected that
construction will commence in 14 other cities in 1979, and in the remaining
three cities in 1980.
24.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
25.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated and are proceeding on
schedule.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
26.        Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. A number of contracts have been signed, and
work is proceeding without delay.
27.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of June 1979, about US$25.2 had been committed and
an additional US$25.6 million, which has been approved by BR for subloans,
is presently being processed.
28.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project implementation is off to a good start.
29.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way.
30.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million.
This loan was approved on May 15, 1979 but is not yet signed.
32.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million.
This loan was approved on June 12, 1979 but is not yet signed.
33.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million.
This loan was approved on June 12, 1979 but is not yet signed.
34.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million.
This loan was approved on June 21, 1979 but is not yet signed.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
SJPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    7 years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    ECONIQUEL, with assistance from
HANNA and BILLITON
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   1967
(d)  First mission to review project:  1972
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   March 27, 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:            September 14, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    December 28, 1979
Section II: Special Bank .tmplementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  the project would have an adequate supply of gas
(paragraph 46);
(b)  an adequate power supply will be assured, on terms
acceptable to the Bank, and, if interim power supply
arrangements are necessary, the Bank will be afforded a
reasonable opportunity to comment on their economic and
technical soundness (paragraph 46);
(c)  housing con,structon and a credit program to finance workers'
purchases will be carried out (paragraph 47);
(d)  the project: will be carried out with and regard to
adequate pollution control and ecological standards
(paragraph 48);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) CMSA will receive technical assistance from SENA and HANNA
to carry out its workers' training program (paragraph 53);
(f) the Bank would share pari passu in all security created
to guarantee the Chase Manhattan Bank loan (paragraph 59);
(g) Except for agreed exceptions, procurement of Bank financed
goods would be subject to international competitive bidding
(paragraph 61);
(h) CMSA will maintain debt within agreed limits (paragraph 65);
(i) until three years after project completion, CMSA's annual
capital investments will not exceed US$10 million equivalent
(paragraph 65);
(j) CMSA would not pay dividends (1) in excess of net profits;
(2) if by doing so the debt to equity ratio would exceed
60:40 or (3) the current ratio would be below 1.3:1
(paragraph 65).
2.        The signing (or, where applicable, the effectiveness) of the follow-
ing would be the main conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) the gas and power supply contracts (paragraph 46);
(b) the amendment to the Concession (paragraph 49);
(c) the Technical Committee contract between CMSA and ECONIQUEL
(paragraph 53);
(d) the technical assistance and engineering contracts between
CMSA and, respectively, HANNA and Bechtel (paragraph 54);
(e) the loan agreements between CMSA and, respectively,
Chase Manhattan Bank and US Eximbank (paragraph 58);
(f) the security arrangements (paragraph 59); and
(g) the Sales Agreement between CMSA and BILLITON (paragraph 67).



i      A;                                                                                                 ir
COLOMBIXA                                                                                                                                CA  f g EA N SEA
CERRO MATOSO NICKEL PROJECT
PRJECT LOCATION AND SERVICES
;   A    R'i  I  B   8    E    A    N                 -. .....                         P        
S E A                                                                                           $K                                                      RR
g < '>4 8ARRAf~~~i8RCA,''  i                                                                                                                         /.
C 0 L 0 M  B I 
S   \ f  I 0  XUAOALUTA          X                   ! s          6       , _7FTSITE 4I A ,                           V
,JOBS TAI`N                                             
Z~MONTEFRIA             VAffACUCHO 
PL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
| c~~~~~~~~~~~UR BOD '|it,                                                                                                                 wUrv t
.0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
CAUCosSIA                                                                                              22AW
\SADALUPE7~C
_ /  !, ,, 'l ' '% ~~~~~~~~~~~~L 1 TUNg/! ] - 230i~~~~~~~SE VTRAPOSMISISONLINE                                                       S            P OTENTIAL GAS PIELOIS
)                   ANT,. sw  XI,tAN,I         /            X        5 g 20    f              ''             *    3AN CSAALSYOW PJTD                                   ADE
DPON-  PA LRESBTAIOS                                                              AEDROD
G5..t ;Vn..........   ....23kTNss8NNE -___                                                                                                                                                 UNPAVED ROADS
QUIBDO  A ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ TRC              CIO             ~           *       DD    RAOMSSO  INSDPAOPOMENTGA BOUELNDRES
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EISTIN                                                                       INTERNAIONALIBUTDARIE
2250 kSVTRANSMISSION LINES             E-=' PIVENTAS        SFEO
-            CORELCA TRANSMISSION   SYSTEM  RITS
Tl                                                                 YOPAL              SAN CARLOS HYDROPOWER PROJECT               GS P      E POWER PLANT
22  W'oVAI*27EGCS*ff.nS@dAI2A IIEDAVENTURA              ;                 /
a w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  23 kV TRANSMISSY ON LNS                                                                                   DpART   3*KLMENTER5UNDARIE
Sp!,zlf ffi b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2O kV TRANSMISSION LNES                                                                      IVA4ERS; ° 
25. 0202W25M52* 02555. uGRS 2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ---    CRECATRNMISIN  YSE
ON. 25.25CR tOWElS5 GO .R.SSod.                                                                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWE PAN
5._= R.70557.OA 054AV25
2(SCSSP5.2YflE,20RB0052N2155                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
" 552 N.1~ EIVA



