LOAN NUMBER 1762 CO
Sponsors' and Shareholders' Agreement
(Cerro Matoso Nickel Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE NIQUEL LIMITADA
and
BILLITON OVERSEAS LIMITED
and
COMPANIA DE NIQUEL COLOMBIANO S.A.
and
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL
and
THE SHELL PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
and
THE HANNA MINING COMPANY
Dated   -Dao--eA'e/ W    o        , 1971


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1762 CO
SPONSORS' AND SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  8eA-3 o**, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and, on the
other side, EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE NIQUEL LIMITADA (ECONIQUEL),
BILLITON OVERSEAS LIMITED (BILLITON) and COMPANIA DE NIQUEL
COLOMBIANO, S.A. (CONICOL) (hereinafter sometimes individually
called "Shareholder" and collectively called "the Shareholders"),
and INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL (IFI), THE SHELL PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED (SHELL) and THE HANNA MINING COMPANY (HANNA)
(hereinafter sometimes individually called "Sponsor" and collec-
tively called "Sponsors").
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty million
dollars ($80,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Shareholders
and the Sponsors undertake certain obligations with respect to the
Borrower and said loan; and
WHEREAS the Shareholders and the Sponsors, in consideration
of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Loan Agreement including the
Recitals thereto have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the term "Affiliate" means any Sponsor or any company directly
or indirectly controlled by, or under common control with, a
Shareholder, including with respect to BILLITON, N. V. Koninklijke
Nederlandsche Petroleum Maatschappij, a Netherlands company
(hereinafter called "Royal Dutch"), The "Shell" Transport and
Trading Company, Limited, an English company (hereinafter referred
to as "Shell T. and T.") and any company, in whatever country
organized, in which Royal Dutch and Shell T. and T. both together
or either of them directly or indirectly at the time in question


﻿-2-
own or have the right to exercise control of share capital
carrying more than fifty per cent (50%) of the voting rights.
ARTICLE II
Payment of Capital
Section 2.01. (a) At such times and in such amounts as shall
be needed by the Borrower for the purpose of complying with its
obligations under the Loan Agreement and meeting its financial
obligations, the Shareholders shall make payments to the Borrower
for ordinary shares of the capital stock issued by the Borrower in
an aggregate amount in pesos (or, if permitted under the laws and
regulations of the Guarantor, in currencies other than pesos)
equivalent to not less than seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000); provided, however, that (i) the portion of this
amount to be applied by the Borrower towards the acquisition,
at historic dollar value, of all the assets of the Joint Venture
shall not exceed the equivalent of twenty--seven million dollars
($27,000,000); and (ii) the payments to be made by. the Share-
holders pursuant to this paragraph shall be made either in cash or
by reducing the debt referred to in Section 5.05 (c) of the Loan
Agreement by an amount equal to the amount of the payment to be
made to the Borrower.
(b) The obligations of each Shareholder under this Section
shall be several and not joint and proportionate as follows:
forty-five per cent (45%) shall be the obligation of ECONIQUEL,
thirty-five per cent (35%) shall be the obligation of BILLITON and
twenty per cent (20%) shall be the obligation of CONICOL.
(c) The obligations of each Shareholder under this Section
shall be independent of each other and neither ECONIQUEL, BILLITON
nor CONICOL shall be entitled to deny or delay performance of its
obligations on the grounds of non-performance by any or all of the
other Shareholders.
ARTICLE III
Provision of Funds
Section 3.01. (a) The Shareholders shall, in addition to the
funds specified in Section 2.01 of this Agreement and to the other
funds made available to the Borrower out of the Loan, the Chase
Loan and the EXIM Loan, make payments to the Borrower for ordinary


﻿-3-
shares of the capital stock issued by the Borrower at such times
and in such aggregate amounts in pesos (or, if permitted under the
laws and regulations of the Guarantor, in currencies other than
pesos), up to an equivalent of one hundred and twenty-five million
dollars ($125,000,000), as shall be needed by the Borrower for the
purpose of complying with its obligations under the Loan Agreement
and meeting its financial obligations.
(b) The obligations of each Shareholder under this Section
shall terminate on the earlier of: (i) the Completion Date; or
(ii) the date when the Shareholder shall have made payments
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section in an aggregate amount
equal to its proportion, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this
Section, including the proviso thereto, of the equivalent of
one hundred and twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000)
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c) The obligations of each Shareholder under this Section
shall be several and not joint and proportionate as follows:
forty-five percent (45%) shall be the obligation of ECONIQUEL,
thirty-five percent (35%) shall be the obligation of BILLITON and
twenty per cent (20%) shall be the obligation of CONICOL; pro-
vided, however, that once an aggregate amount equivalent to
thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($32,500,000) has
been provided by the Shareholders to the Borrower under this
Section, CONICOL shall have the option not to provide any addi-
tional funds under this Section; and if CONICOL shall exercise,
totally or partially, such option, any such additional funds not
provided by CONICOL to the Borrower, as required by this Section,
shall be provided by BILLITON, in addition to its own share.
(d) The obligations of each Shareholder under this Section
shall be independent of each other and neither ECONIQUEL, BILLITON
nor CONICOL shall be entitled to deny or delay performance of its
obligation on the grounds of non-performance by any or all of the
other Shareholders.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each of the Shareholders shall exercise its
rights and powers as a shareholder of the Borrower and every other
right, power and remedy available to it to cause the Borrower


﻿-4-
punctually to perform all of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement and the Listed Documents to which the Borrower is a
party, and shall not take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of such obliga-
tions.
(b) The Bank and each Shareholder shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that
end, the Bank and each Shareholder shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
by such Shareholder of its obligations under this Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(c) Each Shareholder shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the matters specified in paragraph (b) of this
Section.
(d) The Bank and each Shareholder shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere in any material respect with, the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the
perfoimance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement or the performance by such Shareholder of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement; provided, however, that any informa-
tion which has come to the knowledge of one of the parties to this
Agreement in a confidential manner shall be disclosed to the other
parties to this Agreement solely in the discretion of such party.
(e) The provisions of this Section shall not be construed
so as to require any provision of funds, materials, equipment or
personnel to the Borrower in addition to the funds to be provided
to the Borrower pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of this Agree-
ment.
Section 4.02. Each Shareholder shall, not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year, furnish to the Bank
certified copies of its audited financial statements (balance
sheets,, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for such fiscal year, including the report of the auditors
thereon.


﻿-5-
Section 4.03. (a) The obligations of each Shareholder under
Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of this Agreement shall be suspended in the
event of physical impossibility for the Borrower for a period of
one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days, or for a period of
one hundred and eighty (180) days in the aggregate within any
nine-month period, to carry out the Project, as a result of war
(declared or not), invasion of or revolution in the territories of
the Guarantor, or of any act or acts, or omission to act, of the
Guarantor or of any governmental authority of the Guarantor not
provoked by a failure of the Borrower to comply with any law or
regulation of the Guarantor or of a governmental authority of the
Guarantor; provided, however, that if within a period of eighteen
(18) months after the date of suspension of such obligations the
events giving rise thereto shall have ceased to exist, the obliga-
tions of each Shareholder hereunder shall resume their full force
and enforceability as if no such suspension had occurred, except
that if the obligations of each Shareholder hereunder shall have
been suspended for a continuous period of more than six (6)
months, the date on which such obligations shall be fully resumed
shall be a date nine (9) months after the date on which such
physical impossibility shall have ceased. The expression "physical
impossibility for the Borrower to carry out the Project" shall
include any involuntary divestiture of: (i) all or a substantial
part of the assets of the Borrower; or (ii) all or a substantial
part of the shares of the Borrower held by BILLITON or CONICOL.
(b) Each Shareholder shall be permanently freed from its
obligations under Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of this Agreement if,
eighteen (18) months after the date of suspension under paragraph
(a) of this Section of such obligations, the physical impossi-
bility therein referred to shall still continue.
Section 4.04. Until the termination of this Agreement,
neither ECONIQUEL, BILLITON nor CONICOL nor any of its Affiliates
shall assign, sell or otherwise dispose of, or pledge or otherwise
encumber, any share subscription rights or shares in the capital
stock of the Borrower, without the prior written consent of the
Bank, any such consent to be always conditional upon the assump-
tion by the assignee, purchaser or creditor of all the obligations
of the corresponding Shareholder under this Agreement; provided,
however, that no consent of the Bank shall be required for any
transfer of such rights or shares to any Affiliate of the trans-
ferring Shareholder if such Affiliate shall assume all the
obligations of such Shareholder under this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 4.05. IFI, SHELL and HANNA, severally and not
jointly, hereby respectively and unconditionally guarantee the
punctual performance of the obligations under th4 s Agreement of
ECONIQUEL, BILLITON and CONICOL, respectively, and of any Affil-
iate of ECONIQUEL, BILITON or CONICOL to which ECONIQUEL, BILLITON
or CONICOL, respectively, shall have transferred any of its
respective subscription rights or shares in the Borrower, all as
set forth in this Agreement.
Section 4.06. HANNA shall cause Hanna International Corpora-
tion, so long as the latter is the technical advisor referred to
in Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement, to participate with the
Borrower, as and when required, in the preparation and the carry-
ing out of the program referred to in Section 4.07 of the Loan
Agreement in accordance with, and to the extent required by, the
terms and provisions of the Technical Services Agreement covering
services inside Colombia.
Section 4.07. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this
Agreement, and any claim by any such party against any other such
party, arising under this Agreement which shall not be determined
by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by
an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b) There shall be two parties to such arbitration, namely,
the Bank on one side, and on the other side, such Sponsors and
Shareholders as shall (i) have been designated by the Bank in the
notice provided for in paragraph (d) below, or (ii) have insti-
tuted arbitration proceedings against the Bank pursuant to this
Section.
(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators
appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the
Bank; one arbitrator shall be appointed by ECONIQUEL, BILLITON,
CONICOL, IFI, SHELL and HANNA or, if, within sixty (60) days
following the giving of the notice referred to in paragraph (d)
below, they shall not agree, by the Inter-American Commercial
Arbitration Commission, and the third arbitrator (hereinafter
sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of
such two arbitrators or, if, within thirty (30) days following
their appointment, they shall not agree, by the Inter-American
Commercial Arbitration Commission. If, within sixty (60) days
following the giving of the notice referred to in paragraph
(d) below, the Bank shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Inter-American Commercial


﻿Arbitration Commission. In case any arbitrator appointed in
accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become unable
to act, a s'ccessor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same
manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original
arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties
of such original arbitrator.
(d) An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this
Section upon notice by any party to this Agreement instituting
such proceeding to all of the other parties to this Agreement.
Such notice shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of
the controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration, the
nature of the relief sought and the names of such Sponsors or
Shareholders who will participate in the proceeding.
(e) The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and
place as shall be fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral
Tribunal shall determine where and when it shall sit.
(f) Subject to the provisions of this Section and except as
the parties to the arbitration shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral
Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its competence and
shall determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral
Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(g) The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford the parties to the
arbitration as well as all the parties to this Agreement which may
not be parties to the arbitration, a fair hearing and full rights
of participation in the arbitration. The Arbitral Tribunal shall
render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by
default. An award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal
shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart
of the award shall be transmitted to each party to this Agreement.
Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this
Section shall be final and binding upon the parties to this
Agreement. Each party to this Agreement shall abide by and comply
with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Section.
(h) The parties to the arbitration shall fix the amount of
the remuneration of the arbitrators and such other persons as
shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings,
If the parties to the arbitration shall not agree on such amount
before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal
shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circum-
stances. The Bank, ECONIQUEL, BILLITON, CONICOL, IFI, SHELL


﻿-8-
and HANNA shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration
proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided
between and borne equally by the two parties to the arbitration.
Any question concerning the divi7ion of the costs of the Arbitral
Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be
determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(i) The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section
shall be in lieu of any other procedure for the determination of
controversies between the parties to this Agreement, or any claim
by any such party against any other such party, arising under this
Agreement.
(j) If within thirty (30) days after counterparts of the
award shall be delivered to the parties to this Agreement the
award shall not be complied with, any party to the arbitration may
enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the
award in any court of competent jurisdiction against any party
bound by such award, may enforce such judgment by execution or may
pursue any other appropriate remedy against any party bound by
such award for the enforcement of the award or the provisions of
this Agreement.
(k) Service of any notice or process in connection with any
proceeding under this Section or in connection with any proceeding
to enforce any award rendered pursuant to this Section may be made
upon the parties to this kgreement in the manner provided in
Section 4.10 of this Agreeient. The parties to this Agreement
waive any and all other re,uirements for the service of any such
notice or process.
Section 4.08. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date of the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.09. This Agreement and the obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.10. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall have been delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request.


﻿-.9-
Section 4.11. The obligations of ECONIQUEL, BILLITON, CONI-
COL, IFI, SHELL and HANNA under this Agreement shall not be
discharged except by performance and then only to the extent of
such performance. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement,
such obligations shall not be subject to any prior notice to,
demand upon or action against the Borrower or the Guarantor, or
against any party to this Agreement or to the Listed Documents, or
to any prior notice of, or demand with regard to, any default, and
shall not be impaired by any of the following: any extension of
time, forbearance or concession given to the Borrower or the
Guarantor or to any party under this Agreement or the Listed
Documents; any assertion of, or failure to assert, or delay in
asserting, any right, power or remedy against the Borrower or the
Guarantor or against any party under this Agreement or the Listed
Documents, or in respect of any security for the Loan; any modifi-
cation or amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement or the Sponsors' and Shareholders' Agree-
ment or the Listed Documents; any failure of the Borrower or any
other party to this Agreement or the Listed Documents to comply
with any requirement of any law, regulation or order of the
Guarantor or of any political subdivision or agency of the Gua-
rantor.
Section 4.12. If at any time the Guarantor shall be subro-
gated to the rights of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantor shall then ipso facto be subrogated to the rights of the
Bank under this Agreement and be entitled to enforce the obliga-
tions of ECONIQUEL, BILLITON, CONICOL, IFI, SHELL and HANNA
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement as if it were an original
party thereto.
Section 4.13. This Agreement shall be governed by and con-
strued in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as at the time in effect.
Section 4.14. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 4.10 of this Agreement:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WIJI)
For the Shareholders:
(i) Empresa Colombiana de Niquel Limitada
Carrera 7 No. 26-20 Piso 8
Bogoti, Colombia
Cable address:                Telex:
ECONIQUEL                      43262 NICO
(ii) Billiton Overseas Limited
c/o Billiton International Metals B.V.
19 Louis Couperusplein
The Hague
The Netherlands
Cable address:                Telex:
BILLITON                       31702
The Hague
(iii) Compa?ffa de Nfquel Colombiano, S.A.
Carrera 10 No. 27-27, Piso 4
Bogotg, Colombia
Telex:
396-041216
For the Sponsors:
(i) Instituto de Fomento Industrial
Calle 16 No. 6-66
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:                 Telex:
IFI                            44642
Bogot5
(ii) The Shell Petroleum Company Limited
Shell Centre
London, S.E. 1
England


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
SHELLPET                       919-651
London
(iii) The Hanna Mining Company
100 Erieview Plaza
Cleveland, Ohio, 44114
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
HANNACO                        98-0582
Cleveland                      98-0588
IN WITNESS WHEREOF: (i) the Bank, ECONIQUEL, CONICOL, IFI and
HANNA, acting through their representatives thereunto duly autho-
rized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written; and (ii)
BILLITON and SHELL, acting through their representatives thereunto
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in London, England, and delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA JOLOMBIANA DE NIQUEL LIMITADA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
BILLITON OVERSEAS LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative
COMPANIA DE NIQUEL COLOMBIANO, S.A.
By                    D  - W J.6J IL
Authorized Representative
INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO INDUSTRIAL
Byt /V.                 q0AA,w sa-  ~e Lm."
Authorized Representative
THE SHELL PETROLEUM COMPANY LIMITED
By      WAA9          C
Authorized Representative
THE HANNA MINING COMPANY
ByieRpeeav
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   Q 2 .day of          197-.
FOR SECRETARY


