Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4590-PK 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Sindh Education Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
PROVINCE OF SINDH 
 
Dated June 9, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4590-PK 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 9, 2009, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and the PROVINCE OF SINDH, 
acting through the Governor of Sindh (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project 
Agreement”) in connection with the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of 
same date between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (“Recipient”) and the 
Association.  The Association and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Secretary to the 
Government of Sindh, Education and Literacy Department. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Education and Literacy Department  
 
Tughalq House, Sindh Secretariat 
 
Karachi, Sindh 
 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
 
Facsimile:  
Phone: 
 
92-21-9216511  
92-21-9211225 
 
AGREED at Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
/s/ Said N. Al Habsy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
PROVINCE OF SINDH  
 
By  
 
/s/ Rizwan Memon 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
For purposes of implementing the Project, Sindh shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a 
steering committee (the “Reform Steering Committee”) headed by the 
Chief Secretary of Sindh, and comprised of representatives from, 
inter 
alia
,
Sindh’s Education and Literacy Department (“SED”), Finance 
Department, Planning and Development Department, and the Reform 
Support Unit (“RSU”) as well as development partners (as observers); 
which committee shall be assigned with functions,  responsibilities, staff 
and resources, in each case satisfactory to the Association, as shall be 
required for the overall strategic policy guidance, interdepartmental 
coordination and oversight support to the implementation of Sindh’s 
Medium Term Education Sector Reform Program by the RSU; 
 
(b) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, a 
Project management and implementation unit reporting to Sindh’s 
Secretary of Education, headed by an appropriately qualified Chief 
Program Manager, and provided with sufficient resources and 
appropriately qualified staff in adequate numbers, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, comprising,
 inter alia,
 deputy 
program officers for each key activity, a procurement officer, a financial 
management officer, a financial management information systems 
specialist, an internal audit specialist, a communications specialist, and 
an environment coordinator, assisted by monitoring officers and district 
officers  (including an environmental focal person in each district); 
which unit shall be assigned with such functions and responsibilities, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required for, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
planning and day-to-day implementation of Project activities, including 
compliance with the financial management, procurement, monitoring and 
evaluation, and reporting requirements under the Project; 
 
(ii) formulation, coordination and monitoring of Sindh’s reform efforts; 
(iii) the carrying out of core provincial programs, including the annual 
school censuses and incentive programs to public schools; (iv) the 
development of guidelines, regulations and operations resource manuals 
as may be deemed necessary for Project implementation; and (v) the 
liaison and communication with Project stakeholders;  
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
(c) 
maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, an 
Economic Reform Unit (
“ERU”), which unit shall be assigned with 
functions and responsibilities, staff and resources, in terms satisfactory to 
the Association, as shall be required for, 
inter alia
:
(i) the design and 
coordination of fiscal and budget management reforms (MTFF/MTBF); 
(ii) the reporting on budgets and execution in collaboration with the 
RSU; (iii) the oversight and monitoring of the implementation of fiscal 
and budget management strategies; and 
 
(d) 
establish as necessary, district committees assigned with such powers 
and functions acceptable to the Association to be responsible for the 
implementation of sub-programs, including, 
inter alia,
 teachers’ 
recruitment and school rehabilitation. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity, through the RSU, shall apply 
throughout the implementation of the Project, an Operations Manual 
satisfactory to the Association, providing, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the institutional arrangements for the implementation of the 
Project; 
 
(ii) 
the arrangements for the flow of Project funds, including 
protocols and guidelines for Project financial management, 
preparation of withdrawal applications, maintenance of records, 
auditing, reporting and internal controls;  
 
(iii) 
guidelines for planning and execution of procurement activities 
under the Project, including a redressal mechanism for 
procurement complaints;  
 
(iv) 
the protocol for the production of documentary evidence on 
compliance with/fulfillment of the DLIs; and  
 
(v) 
policies and procedures for monitoring Project activities, as well 
as complying with the reporting requirements thereof.  
 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall refrain from amending, waiving, 
terminating, suspending and/or abrogating the Operations Manual, 
whether in whole or in part, without the prior concurrence (no-objection) 
of the Association, if, in the opinion of the Association, such waiver, 
amendment, termination, suspension and/or abrogation might materially 
or adversely compromise the successful implementation of the Project, or 
the achievement of Project objective.  
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C. Safeguards
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that: 
 
(a) 
all civil works carried out under the Project shall be implemented in 
accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework, 
the objectives, policies and procedures thereof, and the social and 
environmental mitigation measures and monitoring requirements 
provided therein; 
 
(b) 
no activities involving land taking will be carried out under the Project. 
In the event that any land acquisition be required for the Project, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall, in consultation with the Association, 
ensure that such land be obtained under the Land Acquisition Act (1894) 
without resorting to the use of clause 17.4 thereof (urgency/emergency 
clause), or as a donation or bequeaths; and  
 
(c) 
no activities under the Project give rise to Displaced Persons.  
 
D. 
Additional Undertakings for Program Implementation  
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the DAC reviews and settles 
the cumulative backlog of advance audits paragraphs for the education sector at 
provincial and district level set out in the MfDAC, in order to achieve a 
progressive reduction of such outstanding audit paragraphs in accordance with 
the following schedule: 
 
(a) 
by April 30, 2009, a reduction of thirty five percent (35%) of the 
cumulative outstanding advance audit paragraphs since FY2005/06;  
 
(b) 
by April 30, 2010, a reduction of sixty percent (60%) of the residual 
advance audit paragraphs for FY2007/08; and 
 
(c) 
by April 30, 2011, a reduction of sixty percent (60%) of the residual 
advance audit paragraphs for FY2008/09. 
 
2. 
In carrying out the activities under Component 1 of the Project, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall: 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
(a) 
ensure that the Sindh Education Foundation maintains throughout the 
implementation of the Project operational autonomy and appropriately 
qualified staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
by no later than December 31, 2010, design, after consultations with 
stakeholders, a roadmap intended to grant the Sindh Education 
Foundation institutional autonomy, in a manner and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
revise and update the MTFF, on an annual basis, by no later than  
April 30 of each year, commencing on April 30, 2009, and in terms, 
manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter 
finance the Project activities under the SERP in accordance therewith;  
 
(d) 
by no later than April 30, 2010, notify, or cause SPPRA to notify, revised 
Procurement Rules acceptable to the Association, which rules shall 
govern the procurement of goods, works, and consulting services in 
Sindh; and  
 
(e) 
by no later than April 30, 2011, notify, or cause SPPRA to notify, 
implementing regulations ancillary to the revised Procurement Rules, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Association.     
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with 
the Association.  Each such Project Report to be submitted to the Recipient and 
the Association twice a year, on or about March 15 and September 15 of each 
year, covering the immediately preceding semester of activities (i.e. September 
through February and March through August, respectively).  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in 
Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient 
or the Association shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
Page  8
-7- 
 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the 
Association the following interim unaudited financial repo
rts (“IUFR”):  
 
(a) 
by no later than January 15 of each year, an IUFR for the Project, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, covering: 
(i) 
the immediately preceding six-month period (i.e. July through 
December) of Project activities under Component 1; and  
(ii) 
the immediately preceding seven-month period (i.e. June through 
December) of Project activities under Component 2; and   
 
(b) 
by no later than June 15 of each year, an  IUFR for the Project, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, covering the immediately 
preceding five-month period (i.e. January through May) of Project 
activities under both Components. 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its Financial Statements referred to 
above (covering the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project) 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each 
audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of 
the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of the period.
 
4. 
In order to mitigate the fiduciary risk of the Project and strengthen the reporting 
capabilities of the RSU, the Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the 
Accountant General of Sindh maintains until December 31, 2010, the 
secondment to the RSU of a financial management information system specialist, 
with experience and qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, to, 
inter alia
:
(i) serve as a liaison officer between the Office of the 
Accountant General of Sindh and the RSU, and (ii) oversee and provide support 
to, Sindh’s district account officers for the generation of financial information 
and compliance with the Project’s reporting requirements. 
C. 
Budget Execution Reports 
 
Notwithstanding the reporting requirement set forth in Section II.B above, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall prepare quarterly consolidated budget 
execution reports (“BER”) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
Page  9
-8- 
 
setting out values of budgets, actual expenditures incurred and balances thereof, 
if any, per budget line, for the whole education sector, covering the period from 
the beginning of the Project Implementing Entity’s Fiscal Year in which the 
report is prepared and up to the date of any such reports. The BERs shall be 
prepared in each calendar quarter, and be submitted to the Association no later 
than thirty (30) days after the end of each such quarter. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
1. 
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall establish by no later than 
 
December 31, 2009, and thereafter maintain throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, a procurement documentation and record keeping 
system, including a publicly accessible website, in a format agreed with the 
Association, showing, 
inter alia
,
the Project’s procurement plans and official 
estimates (unit prices based on market values), the status of procurement of 
various contracts (the summary of proposals/bid evaluations and awards), and a 
list of procurement complaints and status thereof.  
 
