Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/23/2011 
Report No.:  AC5898
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Original Project ID: P107300 
Original Project Name: SINDH 
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (SEP) 
Country:  Pakistan 
Project ID:  P124913 
Project Name:  Sindh Education Sector Additional Financing 
Task Team Leader:  Dhushyanth Raju 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 10, 
2011 
Estimated Board Date: March 24, 2011 
Managing Unit:  SASED 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General education sector (60%);Public administration- Education (40%) 
Theme:  Education for all (60%);Other public sector governance (40%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
50.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
1,834.00 
 
EC: European Commission 
38.00
1,872.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Repeater [] 
 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the Additional Financing (AF) project is identical to the 
parent project, the Sindh Education Sector Project (SEP). The development objective of 
SEP is to support the Government of Sindh's medium-term Sindh Education Sector 
Reform Program (SERP). The objectives of SERP are to increase school participation, 
reduce gender and rural-urban disparities, increase progression, and improve the 
measurement of student learning.   
 
3. Project Description 
The AF is expected to further support the Government to potentially enhance the impact 
and effectiveness of SERP, supported by SEP. Specifically, the AF would leverage its 
resources to support the launch of two new education sector reform activities and the 
extension of one existing reform activity under SEP. These activities are considered by 
the Government as critical for improving school system and service delivery management 
and performance over the medium term, in turn, supporting the achievement of SERP's 
Page  2
aims related to access, equity, and achievement. The activities comprise of the (1) 
rationalization of teachers across schools and the formal allocation of teaching posts to 
schools; (2) preparation and management of school-specific budgets; and (3) extension of 
the existing district education management reforms (EMR) to additional districts.  
 
Teacher rationalization across schools and the formal allocation of teaching posts to 
school: Decisions on the placement of teachers do not closely reflect the distribution of 
students across government schools, though province-wide, the student-teacher ratio is 
27, which is within international norms. As a complementary strategy to merit- and 
needs-based recruitment of teachers and their placement under school-specific, fixed-
term contracts, the Government plans to shift teaching posts for primary, middle, and 
elementary schools, which now are pooled at the taluka level, down to the school level, 
using student-teacher ratio norms and minimum staffing criteria to determine the 
allocation of (sanctioned) teaching posts for each school. These teaching posts will be 
reflected in the district and provincial government budget books. The process of formally 
allocating teaching posts to schools, reflecting them in the budget books, and 
redistributing teachers will be undertaken in a phased manner starting with at least three 
districts in FY2010/11. The Government plans to expand the initiative to additional 
districts in FY2011/12.  
 
Preparation and management of school-specific budgets: The Government expects to 
develop and implement Minimum Funding Standards for Schools (MFSS). Non-salary 
budgets are expected to be set to raise school operation, maintenance, and teaching and 
learning resources to stipulated norms/standards. Primary budget setting and management 
authorities (including Drawing and Disbursing powers) will be shifted down to the union 
council, school-cluster, or school level. Over FY2010/11, preliminary MFSS will be 
developed, tested in at least three districts, and prepared school-specific budgets 
incorporated into the district and provincial government budget books for FY2011/12. 
School-specific budgets are expected to be publicly displayed outside schools. Based on 
the pilot testing, MFSS are expected to be refined, approved, and adopted province-wide 
in FY2011/12, with a larger set of districts expected to prepare school-specific budgets 
(using the finalized agreed MFSS) and incorporate them into the district and provincial 
government budget books for FY2012/13.  
 
Extension of the district Education Management Reform program to additional districts: 
Supported by SEP, the Government has developed and begun early implementation of a 
district Education Management Reform (EMR) initiative in three districts. The initiative 
introduces a new education management structure, posts, job descriptions, and efforts in 
district education development planning, cluster-based school management, and school 
quality assurance. The details on the EMR activity are discussed in the SEP PAD, annex 
4. Following the agreed EMR design and roadmap supported by SEP, the Government 
expects to expand the pilot EMR activity to at least three additional districts.  
 
The objectives, design, and scope of SEP, as well as the institutional arrangements for 
implementation and results monitoring, remain intact. The AF will follow the 
performance-based design of SEP, financing a subset of SEP's Eligible Expenditure 
Page  3
Programs (EEPs), which represent key education budget line items, with the event and 
amount of AF disbursements contingent on the satisfactory achievement of AF 
Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs), which represent agreed, prespecified 
implementation progress and performance targets in the selected activities. The AF will 
rely on the existing arrangements for financial management, disbursement, and 
procurement. The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) adopted 
by the Government under the SEP applies equally to the AF-supported activities.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be implemented in all districts of the Sindh province. The province is 
located in a region that is prone to natural disasters.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Ernesto Sanchez-Triana (SASDI) 
Mr Luis C.P Miglino (SASED) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The activities to be financed by the AF do not entail any significant negative 
environmental impacts. The AF-supported activities may include minor construction 
work such as the rehabilitation of schools or new classroom construction and provision of 
adequate and fully operational sanitation facilities. These minor civil works and the 
disposal of non-hazardous waste during school operation may lead to minor 
environmental impacts. For these reasons the AF has been categorized as "B", identical to 
SEP, in accordance with Bank OP 4.01.  
 
An ESMF has been developed for SEP, and it will apply equally to the AF. The ESMF 
includes a screening process, environmental management and monitoring measures to 
mitigate possible negative impacts on the environment. Section 4 presents a concise 
description of the ESMF. Where relevant, all the school safety and environmental 
Page  4
management improvement measures undertaken under SEP will apply to the AF-
supported activities.  
 
Bank OP on Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) is not triggered. Planning efforts by the 
government and mission field visits and consultations have not identified any indigenous 
groups in the project area. However, should any such group be identified through the 
programmatic social assessment under SEP, an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan 
will be prepared and necessary programs will be designed to mitigate any adverse 
possible impacts and include such groups for culturally-appropriate benefits.  
 
ED/RSU has a grievance collection and redressal system to address any social or 
environmental grievances that arise during SEP implementation. This system will apply 
to the AF-supported activities as well.  
 
A
significant number of schools in Sindh face risks from natural disasters. SEP includes 
initiatives related to the development of maps to better identify risk prone areas; field 
inspections to identify the most vulnerable schools; development of guidelines and 
technical specifications that schools in these areas would have to meet; preparation of 
model designs for schools that reduce their vulnerability to natural disasters; 
implementation of a program to reinforce the structures of vulnerable schools in high risk 
areas; and the provision of natural disaster preparedness trainings to teachers and 
students.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Potential indirect impacts of the project construction activities would be the creation of 
temporary jobs with positive effects on the economy of small communities, and the 
improved well-being of schools' pupils.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
ED/RSU is refining its environmental guidelines to include improvements in the analysis 
of alternatives in the school siting process. As examples, they will include the use of 
digital maps to provide the necessary information about the areas in the province with 
high risk of natural hazards, and a methodology based on a cost-benefit analysis aimed at 
ensuring that siting decisions are based on reliable technical and cost data.  
 
The Government has requested technical assistance to review standard school designs to 
improve their safety and energy efficiency, and to enhance environmental management of 
civil works in the education sector. The Bank team has offered support to the 
Government through the SEP TA component for capacity building on environmental and 
social safeguards issues.   
 
Page  5
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The primary risks considered in the Environmental Assessment (EA) are associated with 
the rehabilitation of schools or minor construction activities. Potential non-significant 
impacts include: (i) an increase in noise levels; (ii) disposal of waste; (iii) potential 
interruption or limitation in the access to residential housing and businesses; (iv) potential 
increase of accidents; and (v) potential nuisance during the construction period.  
 
Consistent with the Bank's policies, a set of construction guidelines have been 
developed and followed by all civil works contractors. These guidelines were included in 
construction contracts for school rehabilitation under the district Terms of Partnership 
subprogram. All civil works under SEP follow the Bank's environment, occupational 
health and safety environmental guidelines. A third-party construction supervision firm 
was hired to ensure construction quality and compliance with the construction's 
environmental management guidelines. As permitted by the prevailing security 
conditions, the Bank team visited school sites during supervision missions and confirmed 
that the ESMF is being adhered to. The Bank team also confirmed that proper precautions 
were being taken such as provisional fencing, hoardings, signs, and informative meetings 
with teachers, students and parents regarding construction and rehabilitation activities 
and safety guidelines.  
 
An assessment of ESMF implementation under SEP at the sites where schools were 
rehabilitated under the district Terms of Partnership subprogram (see SEP PAD for 
details on the subprogram) was carried out by the third-party construction supervision 
firm. The results indicate that environmental impacts were mitigated through the 
appropriate and satisfactory implementation of the ESMF.  
 
The ESMF includes inputs identified in an updated environmental consultation process.  
 
The ESMF includes a checklist covering: site location and sensitivity, site planning and 
building designs, hazard-resistant features, energy efficiency, safe drinking water supply, 
training in disaster preparedness and in sanitation and personal hygiene, school 
construction guidelines on environmental issues, third party construction quality 
supervision, and occupational health and safety.  
 
ED/RSU is responsible for undertaking the planning efforts and mitigation measures to 
address the environmental and social impacts related to SEP and the AF. Environment 
specialists have been hired to strengthen ED/RSU's capacity to ensure timely and 
adequate implementation of the environmental and safety measures. ED/RSU's 
Environmental Coordinator is responsible for overseeing the adequate implementation of 
all measures included in the ESMF and in its Action Plan. The third-party construction 
supervision firm has an environmental specialist that is responsible for ensuring that all 
school construction activities are carried out in compliance with the ESMF Plan 
requirements.   
 
Page  6
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are: (i) ED/RSU; (ii) other key provincial government departments, 
such as the Finance Department and Planning and Development Department; (iii) district 
and sub-district education and civil works administrations; (iv) political representatives at 
the provincial, district, and local levels; (v) civil work contractors; (vi) government 
school staff and students; and (vii) parents of students and local communities at large. 
Safeguard measures and policies have been made available to all interested parties by 
ED/RSU through newspaper notices informing the public about the availability of the 
ESMF and its annexes. The Environmental Impact Assessment and ESMF is publicly 
available on the Government's website: 
http://www.sindh.gov.pk/dpt/EducationFinal/SERP_EA_and_ESMF%5B1%5D.pdf. 
Under SEP, the ESMF has also been shared and discussed with district education and 
works administrations and hired civil works contractors for schools by the third-party 
construction supervision firm. In March 2009, ED/RSU shared the ESMF with, among 
others, all district administrations, including district education departments, with the 
requirement that the ESMF be further distributed to local stakeholders.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/06/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/30/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/02/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  7
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Dhushyanth Raju 
02/04/2011 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ernesto Sanchez-Triana 
02/07/2011 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Luis C.P Miglino 
02/07/2011 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Luis C.P Miglino 
02/07/2011 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
02/11/2011 
Comments:  Cleared. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Amit Dar 
03/23/2011 
Comments:  cleared 
Page  8
