                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          Report No: 59138-PK




                                  PROJECT PAPER

                                        ON A

                         PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.1 MILLION
                          (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                      FOR THE

                      SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT

                                  February 28, 2011




This document is being made publicly available prior to Board consideration. This does not
imply a presumed outcome. This document may be updated following Board consideration and
the updated document will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank's policy on
Access to Information.
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2011)


                          Currency Unit = PKR
                            PKR 85.66 = US$1
                              US$ 1.56 = SDR 1

                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 ­ June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASC     Annual School Census
BER     Budget Execution Report
CPD     Continuous Professional Development
DLI     Disbursement Linked Indicator
ED      Education Department
EEP     Eligible Expenditure Program
EMR     Education Management Reform
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
ERU     Economic Reform Unit
EU      European Union
FD      Finance Department
GoP     Government of Pakistan
GoS     Government of Sindh
ISR     Implementation Status and Results
IUFR    Interim Unaudited Financial Report
MFSS    Minimum Funding Standards for Schools
NER     Net Enrollment Rate
PDO     Project Development Outcome
PIFRA   Project for Improving Financial Reporting and Auditing
PSLM    Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey
QA      Quality Assurance
RSU     Reform Support Unit
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SEMIS   Sindh Education Management Information System
SEP     Sindh Education Sector Project
SERP    Sindh Education Sector Reform Program
SMC     School Management Committee
SNE     Schedule of New Expenditures
TA      Technical Assistance
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
USD     United States Dollar

                       Vice President:         Isabel M. Guerrero
                     Country Director:         Rachid Benmessaoud
                       Sector Director         Michal Rutkowski
                      Sector Manager:          Amit Dar
                Co-Task Team Leaders:          Umbreen Arif and Dhushyanth Raju
                                     i
                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT

                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

     Project Paper Data Sheet........................................................................iii
     Project Paper
             I.         Introduction ...................................................................1
             II.        Background and Rationale for Additional Financing....................1
             III.       Proposed Changes............................................................4
             IV.        Appraisal Summary...........................................................6


         Annexes
                    1. Revised Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators..................9
                    2. Operational Risk Assessment Framework.................................14
                    3. Detailed Description of Project Activities.................................16




                                                 ii
ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE SINDH EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT

                                    DATA SHEET
                              Basic Information - Original Project
   Project ID: P107300                                   Environmental category: B
   Project Name: Sindh Education Sector                  Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2012
   Project
   Lending Instrument: Specific Investment               Joint IFC: NA
   Loan                                                  Joint Level:
                         Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
   Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud                  Sectors: General education sector
   Sector Manager/Director: Amit Dar                     (60%); Public administration-
   Co-Team Leaders: Umbreen Arif and                     Education (40%)
   Dhushyanth Raju                                       Themes: Education for All (60%);
   Project ID: P124913                                   Other public sector governance (40%).
   Expected Effectiveness Date: April 1,                 Environmental category: B
   2011                                                  Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2012
   Lending Instrument: Specific Investment               Joint IFC: NA
   Loan                                                  Joint Level:
   Additional Financing Type: Scale Up
                                      Project Financing Data
   [ ] Loan [X ] Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:
   Proposed terms: Standard IDA terms; 35-year maturity including a 10-year grace period.
                                      Financing Plan (US$m)
                    Source                                       Total Amount (US $m)
   Total Program Cost:                                                   2222.00
     Borrower:                                                           1834.00
     IBRD                                                                   -
     IDA
      SEP (parent project)                                                300.00
      New-SEP AF                                                          50.00
     Cofinancing (European Union Sindh                                    38.00
     Education Plan Support Programme):
                                        Client Information
   Borrower: Islamic Republic of Pakistan
   Responsible Agency: Education and Literacy Department, Government of Sindh
   Secretariat #2 (Tughluq House)
   Sharah-e-Kemal Ataturk
   Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan
   Tel: 92-21-99299225

   Reform Support Unit (RSU)
   NJV Building, Opposite Radio Pakistan
   MA Jinnah Road
   Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan
   Tel: 92-21-32779323
   Fax: 92-21-32775740
              Estimated Additional Financing Disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)

                                        iii
        FY                        2010/11
        Annual                        50
        Cumulative                    50
Project implementation period: Start April 1, 2011 End: June 30, 2012
Expected effectiveness date: April 1, 2011
Expected closing date: June 30, 2012
 Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
 Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities                                       [ ]Yes [X] No
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [ ] No
 Does the project include any critical risks rated substantial or high?
                                                                                    [X]Yes [ ] No
 Ref. Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project development objective Ref. Section Bank Response
The development objective of the Sindh Education Sector Project (SEP) is to support the
Government of Sindh's medium-term Sindh Education Sector Reform Program (SERP). The
objectives of SERP are to increase school participation, reduce gender and rural-urban disparities,
increase progression, and improve the measurement of student learning.

Revised project development objective: There is no revision to the project development objective.

Project description Ref. Section Bank Response
Project description: The Additional Financing (AF) project supports the implementation of three
reform activities for government schools under SERP: the (1) rationalization of teachers across
schools and the formal allocation of teaching posts to schools; (2) preparation and management of
school-specific nonsalary budgets; and (3) extension of the existing district Education
Management Reform (EMR) initiative to additional districts.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
No new safeguard policies triggered. The policies that apply remain the same as for SEP.

                                   Conditions and Legal Covenants:
Project Agreement Reference             Description of                                Date Due
                                      Condition/Covenant
Section III.B                    1. Disbursement of the Additional        Recurrent
(Financing Agreement)            Financing Credit will be contingent on
                                 the achievement of the Additional
                                 Financing Disbursement Linked
                                 Indicators, as verified by the
                                 Association. The three Additional
                                 Financing DLIs are monetized equally,
                                 with each DLI accounting for 33.33%
                                 of the Credit amount.
Section I.C (a)                  2. GoS shall ensure that a               Recurrent
                                 communication plan be developed and
                                 implemented to provide and gather
                                 relevant information from stakeholders
                                 on, among others, the school-specific
                                 nonsalary budgets, allocation of
                                 teaching posts to schools, and the
                                 district and sub-district education
                                 management reform initiatives, in a
                                 manner and substance satisfactory to
                                 the Association.



                                              iv
Section I.C (b)   3. GoS shall ensure that the agreed        Recurrent
                  communications plan for school
                  management committees, secondary
                  school stipends for girls, and textbook
                  distribution is implemented, in a
                  manner and substance satisfactory to
                  the Association.
Section I.C (c)   4. GoS shall ensure that any shifting of   Recurrent.
                  government schools occurs only after
                  the need in prospective communities is
                  verified against agreed objective
                  criteria through an independent field
                  survey, in a manner and substance
                  satisfactory to the Association.
Section I.C (d)   5. GoS shall complete and submit a         October 31, 2011
                  detailed inventory and investigation
                  report of all new schools without
                  SEMIS codes.
Section I.C (e)   6. GoS shall issue an official directive   October 31, 2011
                  to district governments that no new
                  SEMIS codes (provisional or
                  otherwise) or school resources
                  (including SNE, school management
                  committee grants, non-salary budgets,
                  and girls' stipends) will be provided by
                  ED/RSU to government schools taken
                  up/planned in FY2011/12 onwards.
Section I.C (f)   7. As a one-time exercise, using 2010-     December 31, 2011
                  11 Annual School Census data and the
                  investigation report of new schools
                  (see Covenant 5) to set the frame, GoS
                  shall issue all existing government
                  schools permanent, unique, fixed-
                  length Sindh Education Management
                  Information System (SEMIS) codes.
Section I.C (g)   8 GoS shall ensure that all government     March 31, 2012
                  middle, elementary, and secondary
                  schools display their school names and
                  permanent, fixed-length, unique
                  SEMIS codes (see Covenant 7) in a
                  prominent place following issued
                  guidelines.




                                v
I.     Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
credit in an amount of US$50 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the Sindh
Education Sector Project (SEP), Project ID P107300, Credit No. IDA-4590.

2.     The Additional Financing (AF) is expected to further support the provincial Government
of Sindh (Government) to potentially enhance the impact and effectiveness of its medium-term
Sindh Education Sector Reform Program (SERP), supported by SEP. Specifically, the AF would
leverage its resources to support the launch of two new education sector reform activities and the
extension of one existing reform activity under SEP. These activities are considered by the
Government as critical for improving school system and service delivery management and
performance over the medium term, in turn, supporting the achievement of SERP's aims related
to access, equity, and achievement. The activities comprise of the (1) rationalization of teachers
across schools and the formal allocation of teaching posts to schools; (2) preparation and
management of school-specific nonsalary budgets; and (3) extension of the existing district
Education Management Reform (EMR) initiative to additional districts.

3.      The objectives, design, and scope of SEP, as well as the institutional arrangements for
implementation and results monitoring, remain intact. The AF will follow the performance-based
design of SEP, financing a subset of SEP's Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEPs), which
represent key education budget line items, with the event and amount of AF disbursements
contingent on the satisfactory achievement of AF Disbursement Linked Indicators (DLIs), which
represent agreed, prespecified implementation progress and performance targets in the selected
activities. The Government expects to meet the AF DLIs before the end of FY2010/11. The AF
will however remain open over FY2011/12, and close on June 30, 2012 (the same closing date as
SEP).

4.      The European Union (EU) presently cofinances SERP under its Sindh Education Plan
Support Programme (Project Period: FY2006/07-2010/11). The current project commitment
is 39 million, against the same disbursement targets (among others) as SEP. The EU is
also preparing a new Education Sector Programme. A formulation mission in this regard is
expected to start its work in March 2011 to decide on the size of EU financing and its modality.
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is presently in discussions
with the Government to support SERP; the project is not expected to be ready and disburse in
FY2010/11.


II.    Background and Rationale for Additional Financing in the amount of $50 million

5.      The original credit amount for SEP is US$300 million. The project was approved on June
4, 2009 and became effective on June 11, 2009. SEP closes on June 30, 2012, and no change in
the closing date is currently expected. To date, US$188 million (62%) has been disbursed against
annual sets of DLIs.

6.     The development objective of SEP is to support SERP. The objectives of SERP are to
increase school participation, reduce gender and rural-urban disparities in school participation,

                                                1
increase progression, and improve the measurement of student learning. Success in meeting these
objectives is measured against specified quantitative targets. SEP supports activities in four areas
which make up SERP: (1) improving fiscal sustainability and the effectiveness of public
education expenditures; (2) improving education sector management; (3) improving access to
quality schooling in rural areas and for girls; and (4) improving the quality of teaching and
student learning. The project is composed of two components. The first component, amounting
to US$294 million, finances Eligible Expenditure Programs (EEPs), with the event and amount
of credit disbursements tied to the satisfactory achievement of annual sets of DLIs. The second
component, amounting to US$6 million, finances essential Technical Assistance (TA) activities,
which support the Government in the implementation and monitoring and evaluation of SERP.
Bank fiduciary guidelines apply to the EEPs and TA component. The Environmental and Social
Safeguards Framework (ESMF) applies to the entire SERP.

7.      SEP has performed well to date. The IP/DO ratings in the last two Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs), archived dates February 13, 2010 and November 10, 2010, were rated
Satisfactory (S) or Moderately Satisfactory (MS). The Government has met the DLIs in
FY2008/09 and FY2009/10, and there has been significant progress towards the PDO targets.
There are no unresolved fiduciary or safeguard issues and the Government has committed to
strengthening its compliance and implementation of fiduciary and safeguard requirements.

8.      SEP has contributed significantly to SERP results. Table 1 provides information on the
progress to date towards SEP's PDO targets. The latest data used precede the recent catastrophic
floods and rains which have likely impaired service delivery and dampened household demand
for schooling. As the table shows, before the floods, some PDO targets were either nearly met or
have already been met.

 Table 1. Progress to date on Sindh Education Sector Project Development Objectives
     Outcome indicator              Baseline         Target, 2011/12                Progress to Date
                                                                             (latest available data source)
 Primary NER (%)                         50 (2006/07)                  55.6                                 54
                                                                                                    (2008/09 PSLM)
 Female-male ratio NER,                 61.2 (2006/07)                 64.6                                 76
 primary, rural (%)                                                                                 (2008/09 PSLM)
 Class 5-6 transition rate, rural,      51.2 (2007/08)                 63.4                                53.8
 girls, public school (%)                                                                            (2009/10 ASC)
 Learning levels monitored           Baseline measurements for diagnostic            Baseline diagnostic mathematics assessment
 through diagnostic learning         mathematics, language, science and social       in grade 4 successfully administered in April
 assessments                         studies established for class 4 students in a   2009 in a district-representative sample of
                                     district-representative sample of public        public schools. Findings reports prepared and
                                     schools in 2008/09, 2009/10, 2010/11, and       disseminated in December 2010.
                                     2011/12 respectively.
                                                                                     Baseline diagnostic language assessment in
                                     Follow-up measurements for diagnostic           grade 4 successfully administered in March
                                     mathematics established for class 4 students    2010 in a district-representative sample of
                                     in a district-representative sample of public   public schools. Data entry and processing
                                     schools in 2010/11.                             underway.

                                                                              Preparation for diagnostic mathematics and
                                                                              science assessments in grade 4 and
                                                                              mathematics in grade 8 underway.
 Notes: NER: Net enrollment rate; PSLM: Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey. ASC: Government of
 Sindh's Annual School Census.



                                                                   2
9.       In terms of program implementation progress and performance, the achievement in three
SERP subprograms is highlighted. First, under the second round of school rehabilitation
initiative supported by performance-based grants to district governments (district Terms of
Partnership), 847 government schools (82% of the schools screened in for the second round)
were fully rehabilitated and met minimum construction quality and school safety standards in a
record time of twelve months as independently certified. Initial descriptive evidence collected by
the third-party construction supervision firm overseeing the school rehabilitation initiative
indicates that these schools suffered less damage than other schools in flood-affected areas.
Second, in a radical shift from past practices, over two recruitment rounds, 13,000 new teachers
were hired into government service based on test scores and other objective criteria and locally
placed in schools under fixed-term, school-specific contracts. In the second round, the teachers
were additionally placed in understaffed schools as measured by excess student -teacher ratios.
Initial descriptive evidence collected via an independent survey suggests that the newly-recruited
teachers have a lower rate of absence on average than older teachers. Third, slightly less than 300
new private coeducational primary schools are now in operation in underserved rural
communities in disadvantaged districts, supported by public per-student cash subsidies (and
other in-kind benefits) conditional on free schooling and stipulated school quality standards.
Experimental evidence suggests that the school participation rate has increased from 30% to 80%
on average in these communities, and that gender disparity in school participation has been
eliminated.

10.     The original objectives, design, and scope of SEP are expected to remain intact. The
Government has proposed expanding selected existing and adding new reform activities for
enhancing the effectiveness of its reform program (supported by SEP) and requests AF resources
from the Bank. At present, there is Government consensus and commitment to roll out a
strengthened system of service delivery.

11.    One of the key justifications for Bank engagement in the sector and for SEP was to
leverage its resources to promote robust Government commitment and effort for significant
reforms (see SEP Project Appraisal Document [PAD], pg. 3). The SEP has demonstrated the
success of this strategy, as reflected in the Government's maintenance and commitment to merit -
and needs-based teacher recruitment, among others. In line with this rationale, the AF is
expected to leverage its resources to promote Government commitment and effort in the design
and early implementation of the selected key reform activities in the sector to improve school
system management and service delivery performance, thereby, potentially enhancing (or scaling
up) SEP's effectiveness.

12.     The AF-supported activities are fully consistent with SEP's PDO, and with the primary
mechanism (improvements in accountability and governance) and objectives (improvements in
access, equity, and quality) advocated for the sector in the FY2010­13 Country Partnership
Strategy. The PDO relates to improving school participation and progression, with a focus on
disadvantaged population groups--human capital accumulation through the education system is
widely viewed as key for improved socioeconomic prospects, including sustainable poverty
reduction.




                                                3
13.    Other means and mechanisms to finance the selected reform activities were explored but
the Government's ability for own-financing has deteriorated given reduced revenues and
additional expenditure demands as a result of the recent floods. As discussed in Section I, other
Development Partners (USAID and EU) are planning additional support for SERP but this
support will likely materialize in FY2011/12 or later.

14.      The benefits of the AF are that, among others: (1) the use of DLIs promotes a strong
focus on results and performance, valued by the Government; (2) it supports improvements in
accountability and governance, which are increasingly seen by the Government as critical for
service delivery improvements; (3) it supports the Government's evolving reform agenda; and
(4) it is potentially fast disbursing when targeted results are satisfactorily met.

15.     The AF-supported activities essentially top up SEP, yielding benefits that will largely
materialize over the medium term.1 The early stages of implementation of the AF-supported
activities may entail some additional costs but these costs are not expected to be significant and
can be absorbed by the Government. By and large, the reforms entail making better decisions on
the allocation and use of scarce budgetary resources; any additional costs are likely to be offset
to some extent by cost savings from greater efficiency and reduced leakage. Given that the AF-
supported activities constitute important reform initiatives, strong and sustained commitment and
support from the political and bureaucratic leadership are critical for sound designs and
implementation progress and performance; this commitment is currently present. The
administrative capacity of the Government to carry out the AF-supported activities is adequate,
but the provincial government will have to strengthen and ensure durability in the buy-in and
cooperation from the district governments, who have primary responsibility for service delivery.
The provincial government has already initiated active, regular consultations with the district
governments and is in the process of setting up working groups with representation from key
provincial departments and selected district governments to discuss design and implementation
specifics. This cooperation will also help in developing sound designs that reflect important
general ground realities. The AF-supported activities may have stakeholders who prefer the
status quo; these stakeholders may voice their grievances and exert pressure against the reforms.
Managing these countervailing forces will require strong, regular, and proactive communication
from the Government on the process and the expected stream of benefits of the reform activities
to a wide set of stakeholders, including the primary target beneficiaries of potentially-improved
service delivery: families that are the target population for government schools. Government
communications will also be essential to address any misconceptions or misinformation related
to the AF-supported activities. Communications and stakeholder relations represent a legal
covenant under the AF.


III.    Proposed Changes

16.   The PDO for SEP and the AF match. The AF is expected to enhance the performance of
the SEP in achieving its PDO by supporting Government efforts to streamline, manage, and

1
  If the AF does not perform as well for any reason, progress towards SEP's PDO targets is not expected to be
impaired. The risk to the achievement of SEP's PDO targets now largely come from the adverse effects of the floods
on the demand and supply of schooling.

                                                        4
strengthen the school system, potentially yielding service delivery performance improvements
over the medium term as the activities are sustained, gain implementation traction, and scale.
Towards this end, the AF will follow the design of SEP, namely the key design features of EEPs,
DLIs, and project covenants, as well as rely on the existing arrangements for implementation,
results monitoring, fiduciary and safeguards management under SEP. As the SEP results
monitoring framework remains unchanged, the Revised Project Results Framework is not
included in Annex 1 of this paper.

17.    EEPs: The AF will finance one EEP from SEP's set of EEPs: employee-related expenses
in primary and secondary education at the district level. The other EEPs under SEP are not
relevant for the AF-supported activities. The selected EEP for the AF has no procurement
implications.

18.     DLIs: The event and amount of disbursements will be contingent on the satisfactory
achievement of DLIs in the AF-supported activities. Three DLIs, one in each AF-supported
activity, have been framed in partnership with the Government. The DLIs promote first-stage
implementation in the following activities: the (1) teacher rationalization across schools and the
formal allocation of teaching posts to schools; (2) preparation and management of
comprehensive school-specific nonsalary budgets following stipulated funding norms; and (3)
expansion of the existing Education Management Reform initiative to three additional districts.
Each DLI accounts for one-third of the total credit amount; when a given DLI is satisfactorily
met, as verified by the Bank, the relevant disbursement amount is released to the Government.
Section IV discusses the disbursement design in more detail. Annex 3 discusses the reasons for
and the contents of the AF-supported activities in more detail. The DLIs and agreed expected
evidence for verifying satisfactory achievement (the verification protocol) are presented in
Annex 1.

19.     Project covenants: The project covenants under the AF, framed in partnership with the
Government, support complementary efforts for strengthening SERP performance by setting
requirements related to, among other things, (1) the systematic communications related to SERP
with stakeholders, including in the AF-supported activities, and (2) school identification and the
management of the size and spread of the government school system . In addition, the covenants
related to institutional and fiduciary arrangements and safeguards under SEP, contained in the
SEP Financing and Project Agreements and PAD, apply to the AF.

20.     The institutional arrangements for AF implementation and results monitoring are
expected to be identical to those for SEP. Implementation and monitoring responsibilities will lie
with the Education Department (ED), the Reform Support Unit (RSU), and the district education
departments, with support from the Finance Department (FD) and Planning and Development
Department (P&D), and oversight and coordination by the Reform Steering Committee (RSC).
The AF-supported activities may have implications for the Government's financing plan in
FY2011/12, but the magnitude and direction of change are presently unknown. Government
expenditures may increase if school-specific nonsalary budgets reflect a higher amount and
quality of non-salary inputs; this increase may be offset by expenditure savings from greater
efficiency and reduced leakage from setting and managing school-specific budgets.
Arrangements for financial management and disbursement, procurement, and social and


                                                5
environmental safeguard management are expected to be identical to those for SEP. Finally, the
Bank's AF supervision strategy is expected to be identical to that of SEP; supervision missions
will simultaneously review implementation progress and performance of both SEP and the AF
project. Given that there are no changes in these arrangements, the Government is expected to
apply all relevant arrangements, guidelines, policies and procedures detailed in the SEP PAD and
Operation Manual.


IV.     Appraisal Summary

21.     The economic and financial analysis estimations for SEP are likely to be affected
favorably by the AF-supported activities. Any increases in Government expenditures from the
activities are likely to be limited since they support the early stages of phased implementation. If
the activities produce service delivery improvements, these are likely to raise the demand for
schooling (school participation and progression), yielding higher expected economic benefits.
Consequently, the estimated presented discounted value of SEP will increase. The economic
viability of SEP continues to remain robust to the selected scenarios assessed as part of the
original sensitivity analysis.

22.     As mentioned above, institutional arrangements and results monitoring are expected to be
identical to those for SEP. Financial management, disbursement, and procurement are also
largely consistent with the guidelines in the SEP PAD and Operation Manual. The SEP ratings in
the latest ISR (Archival date: November 10, 2010) are Moderately Satisfactory (MS) for
implementation progress, financial management, procurement, and project management. These
ratings largely reflect implementation lags; ED/RSU has made efforts over the third quarter of
FY2010/11 to address existing lags and adopt measures to prevent the emergence of new lags.

23.     Financial management arrangements: As for SEP, the overall FM risk rating for the AF
is considered Moderate. The arrangements for staffing, budgeting, accounting, internal controls,
financial reporting, external audit, funds flow and disbursement in place under SEP will apply to
the AF. The AF will disburse against a single EEP, A01 ­ Employee related expenses of primary
and secondary education sub-functions at district level, contingent upon successful achievement
of the AF DLIs. This EEP is one of the existing EEPs under SEP; therefore, the format of the
Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IUFRs) agreed for SEP will also be used for the AF. The
report-based disbursement will be used. The Credit proceeds will be allocated as indicated in
Table 2.

 Table 2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
                         Category                          Amount of Credit        Percentage of
                                                          (expressed in USD)     Expenditures to be
                                                                                     Financed
 Eligible Expenditure Program-Employee related expenses      50,000,000                100%
 of primary and secondary education sub-functions at
 district level
 TOTAL AMOUNT                                                50,000,000

24.   IDA financing is inclusive of duties and taxes. As for SEP, there will be no segregated
Designated Account for the AF and disbursements from the Credit will be made to the Provincial

                                                     6
Government Consolidated Fund ­ Account No. 1 (Non-food) based on Withdrawal Applications
duly prepared by the RSU and approved by the Finance Department, Government of Sindh.

25.     Disbursement of the Credit proceeds will be on a reimbursement basis, as opposed to an
advance basis for the SEP, and will be contingent upon the achievement of AF DLIs as specified
in Annex 1. The global DLI under SEP is not applicable to the AF. Each of the three DLIs
accounts for 33.33% of the Credit amount, i.e., approximately USD16,666,667. After the
achievement of the DLI has been verified by the Bank, a Withdrawal Application for the amount
related to the DLI may be submitted. This will be supported by an IUFR showing expenditures in
the EEP since the last IUFR. These expenditures will be based on Budget Execution Reports
(BERs) of the Education Sector generated from the national Financial Accounting and Budgeting
system implemented under the Project to Improve Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA).
Since the AF's EEP is also part of the EEPs under SEP, the expenditures will count towards the
AF as well as the total EEP expenditures for SEP.

26.    Project Financial Statements for SEP will include the AF. These are audited by the
Auditor-General of Pakistan. Acceptable audit reports have been received for SEP. There are no
overdue audit reports or ineligible expenditures.2 The FM arrangements in place are considered
adequate and there will be reasonable assurance that funds are used for intended purposes with
economy and efficiency and that the requirements of OP/BP 10.02 will be met.

    Table 3: Audit Requirements
                          Audit Report                                        Due Date
    Project Financial Statements (SEP including the AF)                  December 31 each year
    for the year ended June 30 each year

27.      Procurement Arrangements: As discussed above, the AF will disburse against a single
EEP, A01 ­ Employee related expenses of primary and secondary education sub-functions at
district level, contingent upon successful achievement of the AF DLIs. The selected AF EEP is a
nonprocurable eligible expenditure and, thus, has no procurement review requirements.
Furthermore, the AF does not have a TA component. The Government can draw TA under SEP
for the AF-related activities, if needed, in order to support implementation and monitoring and
evaluation. The use of TA, including procurement rules and review requirements, is stipulated in
the Financing Agreement for SEP.

28.     The procurement implementation performance of RSU has been variable; however, RSU
has focused in recent months on streamlining and strengthening the system. The RSU is required
to continue to maintain a dedicated procurement specialist, who will report to the Chief Program
Manager (CPM) and the Deputy Program Manager (DPM)--Policy and Coordination. DPMs
will be responsible for the technical aspects of procurement for their respective subprograms.




2
  The role of the Auditor-General to carry out the annual audit of the financial statements of the Bank-financed
projects is generally acceptable to the Bank. The Auditor-General being the Supreme Audit Institution in Pakistan
has formally adopted the INTOSAI Standards on auditing. In addition, the Financial Audit Manual enshrines the
principles contained in the International Standards on Auditing issued by International Federation of Accountants.

                                                          7
29.     Fiduciary guidelines prepared for and distributed to schools and SMCs under SEP are
expected to be appropriately revised and distributed to schools that are covered under the sc hool-
specific nonsalary budgeting activity under the AF.

30.     Safeguard policies: SEP is categorized as B, in accordance with World Bank OP 4.01.
For the SEP, an Environmental Assessment was carried out and an ESMF was developed and
adopted by the Government. A programmatic social assessm ent is expected to be carried out
under SEP. The AF-supported activities do not raise the environmental category of the project
nor do they trigger any new safeguard policies. The ESMF under SEP applies equally to the AF.
The school safety and environmental management efforts under SEP can also benefit the AF-
supported activities, if relevant.

31.    There are no exceptions to Bank policies.




                                                8
                                                  Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring
                                PAKISTAN: Additional Financing for the Sindh Education Sector Project
                                                       Results Framework

                                                         Disbursement Linked Indicators
        Area                          Baseline                               DLI target                                  Verification protocol
DLI 1:                  Teaching posts are not at the school   Allocation of sanctioned teaching        Definition(s): Schools are functional primary, middle,
Teacher                 level for primary, middle, and         posts to schools and incorporation       and elementary schools. Allocation of posts entail
rationalization         elementary government schools.         of school-specific teaching posts in     shifting sanctioned posts from taluka to school level
across schools and                                             FY2011/12 budget books in at least       based on agreed objective norms.
the formal allocation                                          three districts.
of teaching posts to                                                                                    Verification source(s): List of all functional primary,
schools                                                                                                 middle, and elementary schools in relevant districts
                                                                                                        based on the 2010-11 ASC. FY2011/12 draft budget
                                                                                                        books with school-wise information on allocated
                                                                                                        (sanctioned) teaching posts.
DLI 2: Preparation      No school-level budget planning        Preparation of school-specific           Definition(s): Schools are functional primary, middle,
and management of       and management for primary,            nonsalary budgets using preliminary      and elementary schools. Minimum funding standards
school-specific         middle, and elementary government      MFSS and incorporation into the          for schools (MFSS) will stipulate norms for
nonsalary budgets       schools.                               FY2011/12 budget books in at least       determining the quality and quantity of nonsalary
                                                               three districts.                         inputs for attaining and maintaining minimum levels of
                                                                                                        service delivery.

                                                                                                        Verification source(s): Government-approved
                                                                                                        notification of preliminary MFSS document; draft
                                                                                                        FY2011/12 district budget books with school-wise
                                                                                                        information on nonsalary budgets.

DLI 3:                  The district Education Management      Implementation of the EMR                Definition(s): Schools covered by the EMR activity are
Extension of the        Reform (EMR) initiative is under       initiative , including education         functional primary, middle, and elementary schools per
district and sub-       early implementation in three          management structure, posts, job         the 2009-10 ASC. Expansion will be to at least one
district education      districts.                             descriptions, training, school quality   taluka in each district. EMR implementation is per the
management reform                                              assurance framework, cluster-based       Government's approved EMR policy and roadmap.
initiative to                                                  school management in at least 3
additional districts.                                          additional districts.                    Verification sources: Government-approved
                                                                                                        notification of selection of three districts for the
                                                                                                        expansion of Cluster-Based School Management
                                                                                                        (CBSM) and Quality Assurance (QA) strategy;


                                                                               9
     Government-approved notification of clusters and
     guide teachers; Government-approved notification of
     school advisors and evaluators; Government-approved
     notification of redesignated district education
     management positions; and draft district budget books
     for FY2011/12 incorporating budgetary allocation for
     mobility support for guide teachers and QA teams.




10
                 Revisions to the Results Framework              Comments/
                                                            Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)                        Proposed
Support SERP to increase school      Continued.
participation, reduce gender and
rural-urban disparities in school
participation, increase
progression, and improve the
measurement of student learning.
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)                        Proposed change
Net enrollment rate at primary       Continued.
level (grades 1-5)
Female-male ratio in NER,            Continued.
primary, rural
Class 5-6 transition rate, rural,    Continued.
girls, government schools
Learning levels monitored            Continued.
through diagnostic learning
assessments.
Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)                        Proposed change
Preparation and implementation       Continued.
of annual education budgets,
including SERP budgets and
financing plans consistent with
medium term fiscal/budget
frameworks.
Number of residual audit             Continued.
paragraphs resolved in the
education sector.
Procurement deviations based on      Continued.
ex-post procurement reviews and
third-party supervision of school
rehabilitation works.
Number of months to complete         Continued.
administration of the Annual
School Census (ASC).
Share of schools with less than      Continued.
10% discrepancy in ASC data
from validation data, based on
sample verification.
Steps in the implementation of the   Continued.
Education Management Reform
(EMR) initiative to strengthen
capacity and accountability of
education managers.
Share of prioritized schools         Continued.
completed to meet stipulated
school design, construction
quality, and functionality
standards.


                                                       11
               Revisions to the Results Framework              Comments/
                                                          Rationale for Change
Share of government schools with     Continued
active SMCs.
Number of schools covered under      Continued
pilot program for SMC pilot
mobilization for capacity building
and school improvement
planning.
Share of government schools          Continued.
receiving free textbooks within
the first month of the academic
year.
Share of beneficiary girls that      Continued.
received stipends within the
academic year.
Number of low-transition rate        Continued.
talukas with higher girls stipends
(Differential Stipends Program-
DSP).
Number of private schools            Continued.
supported under fully-funded pilot
public subsidy program in
qualifying underserved rural
localities (Promoting Low-Cost
Private Schooling in Rural Sindh-
PPRS).
Implementation of merit- and         Continued.
needs-based teacher recruitment.
Steps in the implementation of       Continued.
Teacher Education and
Development (TED), comprising
of standards and competency-
based Continuous Professional
Development (CPD),
accreditation of CPD providers,
and colleges with new teaching
diploma.
Subject and grade for fielding of    Continued.
diagnostic assessment in district
representative sample of
government schools
Subject and grade for analysis       Continued.
reports of diagnostic student
assessment.
Number of districts with the         New.              New target. The target reflects an
allocation of sanctioned teaching                      AF Disbursement Linked Indicator
posts to schools and the                               in a new reform activity to be
incorporation of school-specific                       carried out by the Government.
teaching posts in FY2011/12
budget books.
Number of districts with school-     New.              New target. The target reflects an
specific nonsalary budgets for                         AF Disbursement Linked Indicator
elementary schools incorporated                        in a new reform activity to be
into the FY2011/12 budget books.                       carried out by the Government.


                                                  12
               Revisions to the Results Framework           Comments/
                                                       Rationale for Change
Number of districts under the pilot   New.          Expanded target. The target
education management reform                         reflects an AF Disbursement
initiative.                                         Linked Indicator associated with
                                                    the expansion of an existing reform
                                                    activity under SEP.




                                             13
                                                                             ANNEX 2
                                 OPERATIONAL RISK ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK (ORAF)
                                                                  Project Development Objective(s)

  The development objective of the proposed project is to support the Government of Sindh's Medium Term Education Sector Reform Program (SERP). The objectives
  of SERP are to increase school participation, reduce gender and rural-urban disparities, increase progression and improve the measurement of student learning.


  PDO Level Results            1. Primary Net Enrollment Rates (NER) (%)
  Indicators:                  2. Female-male ratio NER, primary, rural (%)
                               3. Class 5-6 transition rate, rural, girls, public school (%)
                               4. Learning levels monitored through diagnostic learning assessments



      Risk Category           Risk Rating                           Risk Description                                             Proposed Mitigation Measures

Project Stakeholder Risks     MI             Education is a priority sector for GoS and recurrent                1. If the fiscal situation deteriorates, GoS to direct needed cuts
                                             expenditures are to be protected against cuts; however, if GoS's    to development expenditures. If further cuts are required, GoS
                                             fiscal position deteriorates significantly, SERP may experience     to target benefits or slow the pace of implementation scale up.
                                             cutbacks. AF supported activities require strong cooperation        2. School specific budgets may yield cost savings by limiting
                                             between provincial and district governments, and measures to        leakage. 3. Early detection and dialogue on fiscal and budget
                                             limit short-term losses, communicate medium-term gains, and         management matters under SEP. 4. Measures for stakeholder
                                             prevent public misconceptions and address misinformation.           relations and management include continuous dialogue with
                                             The learning by GoS on stakeholder relations on difficult           political leadership; GoS dialogue with district governments on
                                             reforms under SEP is to inform AF-supported initiatives.            AF supported initiatives to strengthen district awareness and
                                                                                                                 commitment; careful sequencing of implementation and scale-
                                                                                                                 up pace to limit potential losses; a communications consultant
                                                                                                                 to support GoS with stakeholder and public relations, and
                                                                                                                 grievance management.

Implementing Agency           MI             There are efforts to strengthen FM and procurement at different     1. Continue oversight and guidance to strengthen ED/RSU FM
Risks                                        levels but weaknesses remain. The quality of SERP                   and procurement performance. 2. Offer TA support under SEP
                                             implementation, coordination, and monitoring has improved           for incremental staffing and capacity building to strengthen
                                             but lags need to be addressed and prevented and progress kept       ED/RSU and limit disruptions due to staff changes. 3. Continue
                                             steady. Limiting staff transfers and speedily addressing staffing   dialogue with political and bureaucratic leadership to minimize
                                             gaps in ED/RSU remain challenges. Sector governance is              transfers and retain quality staff, and on the governance agenda
                                             challenging at all levels and corruption and fraud controls need    and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of education
                                             to be strengthened. SERP supports important initiatives to          expenditures. 4. Tie AF disbursements to implementation-


                                                                                     14
                                         improve governance and accountability and increase the           related targets in key governance activities. 5. Benefit from
                                         efficiency and effectiveness of expenditures.                    ongoing governance reforms for AF supported initiatives.

Project Risks                 MI


      Design                  MI         Design risks arise from possible divergent interests between     Measures include: 1. gather regular design input and feedback
                                         district and provincial governments and between political and    for the political leadership; 2. maintain a regular dialogue
                                         bureaucratic levels.                                             between district and provincial governments on design; 3. use
                                                                                                          data from M&E systems to inform design; and
                                                                                                          4. provide regular technical support for the design work.

      Social and              L          AF-supported activities have limited social and environmental    Measures include: 1. maintaining regular dialogue with the
      Environmental                      implications. The ESMF under SEP applies equally to AF.          political and bureaucratic leadership on the benefits and
                                         School safety and environmental management activities can        feasibility of stronger school safety and environmental
                                         benefit the AF-supported activities, if relevant.                management; and 2. monitoring the implementation of the AF-
                                                                                                          supported activities and integrating in relevant social and
                                                                                                          environmental management measures if needed.
      Program and Donor       L          The Bank and EU, the two main development partners (DPs) in      NA.
                                         education, support GoS's program, priorities, and goals. The
                                         AF activities are subsumed within SERP and do not contradict
                                         the existing elements in the program. New DPs have indicated
                                         an interest in supporting SERP, in alignment with existing DP
                                         support.
      Delivery Quality        ML         The pace and steadiness of implementation progress remains       Measures include: 1. Tying AF disbursements to
                                         weak with some SERP subprograms due to internal                  implementation performance and progress targets;
                                         administrative issues which generate delays (e.g., reviews,      2. building capacity of district governments via the district
                                         approvals, and funding releases). District government capacity   education management reform subprogram and EU's district
                                         to implement is variable and often weak.                         education managers training initiative; and
                                                                                                          3. streamlining procedures for documentation preparation,
                                                                                                          reviews, approvals and managing procedure compliance.



                Overall Risk Rating at           Overall Risk Rating During                Comments
                Preparation                      Implementation
                Medium-I                         Medium-I                                  There is no change in the risk rating from preparation to
                                                                                           implementation. The Government is taking proactive
                                                                                           steps to contain risks, and the Government and the task
                                                                                           team will closely monitor risks and take actions as
                                                                                           needed.




                                                                               15
                            Annex 3: Detailed Description of Project Activities

             PAKISTAN: Additional Financing for the Sindh Education Sector Project

The Government has identified two additional reform activities to integrate into SERP and one
existing reform activity under SEP to extend. These activities are viewed by the Government as
key for streamlining and strengthening the school system, potentially yielding service delivery
performance improvements. These reform initiatives are expected to be sustained, refined, and
scaled up over the medium term.3 The AF DLIs, one DLI in each reform area, reflect
intermediate steps (largely at the front-end of reform implementation).

The AF-supported reform activities comprise of the (1) rationalization of teachers across schools
and the formal allocation of teaching posts to schools; (2) preparation and management of
school-specific nonsalary budgets, covering expenditures for inputs in line with minimum
funding standards; and (3) extension of the existing pilot district and sub-district Education
Management Reform (EMR) initiative to three additional districts.

ED/RSU has already begun sensitizing district governments (the level of government primarily
responsible for service delivery) on the requirements in the selected reform activities. ED/RSU
has set up working groups composed of key provincial departments and district governments for
discussing design and implementation issues related to the activities. Districts have expressed
support for the activities; some districts have begun the initial groundwork for the initiatives in
collaboration with ED/RSU.

Details on the AF-supported activities are presented below.

Disbursement Linked Indicator 1
Teacher rationalization across schools and the formal allocation of teaching posts to schools
Decisions on the placement of teachers do not closely reflect the distribution of students across
government schools, although province wide, the student-teacher ratio is 27, which is within
international norms. As a result of existing practices, the distribution of student-teacher ratios
across schools has significant spread, with large shares of overstaffed and understaffed schools
(see Figure 1). Arbitrary transfers and deputation of regular teachers also hamper efforts to
control the distribution of teachers. One strategy the Government has pursued in recent times to
tackle this issue is to recruit new teachers and locally place them in schools under school -specific
contracts (in effect, nullifying transfers of any kind), under its merit-based teacher recruitment
subprogram in the SERP. With the second round of recruitment under this subprogram, ED/RSU
worked with the district governments in order to locally place newly-recruited teachers under
school-specific contracts in understaffed schools determined on the basis of student -teacher
ratios.




3
    As such, the expected improvements are likely to be largely realized after the AF implementation period.

                                                           16
                                 .05
                                 .04
                                 .03
                       Density



                                 .02
                                 .01
                                       0
                                           0   10    20     30     40        50   60     70     80    90       100
                                                                     STR 2009-10

                                                    STR for Rural Schools              STR for Urban Schools




                           Figure 1: Distribution of school student-teacher
                           ratios, Sindh, by urban/rural

As a complementary strategy, the Government plans to shift teaching posts for primary, middle,
and elementary schools, which now are pooled at the taluka level, down to the school level,
using student-teacher ratio norms and minimum staffing criteria (at least two teachers per school,
where possible) to determine the allocation of (sanctioned) teaching posts for each school. These
school-specific teaching posts will be reflected in the district and provincial government budget
books. The process of formally allocating teaching posts to schools, reflecting them in the
FY2011/12 budget books, and redistributing teachers will be undertaken in a phased manner
starting with at least three districts in FY2010/11. The Government plans to expand the initiative
to additional districts in FY2011/12.

Initial simulation exercises conducted by ED/RSU using the 2010-11 Annual School Census data
suggest that shifting of teachers across schools within districts may be insufficient to bring
student-teacher ratios down to the range of 30:1 to 40:1, as, to a great extent, the unbalanced
distribution of teachers in the province is due to large differences in the numbers of teachers
between districts. Moving teachers between districts is viewed as more difficult by the
Government. Thus, given this constraint, the Government expects to set different student-teacher
ratio norms for different districts that reflect the available number of teachers.

Disbursement Linked Indicator 2
Preparation and management of school-specific nonsalary budgets
The vast majority of government schools experience critical resourcing shortfalls, likely
impairing school performance. Aggregate recurrent expenditures for the sector largely comprise
of teacher salaries and benefits with scarce (residual) resources for important nonsalary inputs
such as basic school maintenance and operation and teaching and learning materials. In the case
of primary, middle, and elementary schools, budgets are prepared and managed at levels higher
than the school (at the district and taluka levels), with little or no systematic relation to the
specific immediate and expected needs of individual schools. In FY2010/11, the total nonsalary
budget is Rs. 800 million (US$9.4 million), which is less than Rs. 20,000 per school. In practice,
primary schools receive little or no resources for nonsalary inputs and middle and high schools
receive insufficient amounts, often with significant delays. Much of the total allocation for
nonsalary inputs is not disbursed to schools.

                                                                        17
The Government expects to develop and implement Minimum Funding Standards for Schools
(MFSS) in relation to, among other things, school size in terms of classrooms and students,
school level, school building availability and construction quality, availability and functionality
of basic amenities, and administrative and quality of education requirements. Budgets are to be
set to raise school operation, maintenance, and teaching and learning resources to stipulated
norms/standards, potentially subject to any budget ceilings for districts.4 Initially, school-specific
budgets will be managed at the taluka level, given that Drawing and Disbursi ng Officer
(DDO)--budget management--authority is presently held by education managers at that level.
After the necessary readiness steps are taken, DDO authority will be delegated to education
managers/teachers at the union council, school-cluster (as developed under the district Education
Management Reform initiative), or school level. Over FY2010/11, preliminary MFSS will be
developed, tested in at least three districts, and prepared school-specific nonsalary budgets
incorporated into the district and provincial government budget books for FY2011/12. School-
specific nonsalary budgets are expected to be publicly displayed outside schools. Based on the
pilot testing, MFSS are expected to be refined, approved, and adopted province-wide in
FY2011/12, with a larger set of districts expected to prepare school-specific nonsalary budgets
(using the finalized agreed MFSS) and incorporate them into the district and provinci al
government budget books for FY2012/13. The Government also plans to put in place a system
for monitoring and validating that school-specific nonsalary budgets are released to schools and
that schools utilize the funds.

The Government has set up a working group composed of representatives from district education
departments, ED/RSU, FD, and the Economic Reform Unit (ERU) to review current procedures
and practices for developing and disbursing nonsalary budgets and develop MFSS based on
clearly-defined objective criteria. The working group is expected to coordinate closely with the
working group that develops the policy for teacher rationalization across schools and the formal
allocation of teaching posts to schools, given that this work is equivalent to setting school-
specific teacher salary budgets.

Disbursement Linked Indicator 3
Extension of the district Education Management Reform initiative to additional districts
There are important deficiencies in education management at the district and lower levels that
impair service delivery performance. The deficiencies appear to be largely due to poor
organizational structures and administrative practices, weak service monitoring and
implementation capacity, and poor incentives for minimum levels of service delivery
performance. Details on these deficiencies are discussed in the SEP PAD, Annex 1. The
Government has developed and begun early implementation of a district Education Management
Reform (EMR) initiative in three districts. The initiative introduces a new education
management structure, posts, job descriptions, and efforts in district education development

4
  Total school-specific nonsalary budgets may subsume the grants under the existing School Management
Committee (SMC) subprogram in SERP. Under the SMC subprogram, the Government is presently reactivating
SMCs in all main, functional government schools, offering annual grants to SMCs for school-related investments,
and building the capacity of SMCs to perform their roles and responsibilities. Even if SMC grants are included as a
part of school-specific nonsalary budgets, SMC grants are expected to be channeled directly from the provincial
government (Account 1) to SMC bank accounts, and decisionmaking authority on expenditures lies with the SMC.

                                                        18
planning, cluster-based school management, and school quality assurance. The details on the
EMR activity are discussed in the SEP PAD, Annex 4. Early descriptive field reports suggest
that the pilot EMR initiative has made education management visible and tangible to schools and
local communities. The act of inspection visits of schools (and the expectation of visits) under
the initiative seem to be associated with improved school operations (e.g., school reopenings,
chronically-absent teachers returning to schools). Under the AF, following the agreed EMR
design and roadmap supported by SEP, the Government expects to expand the pilot EMR
activity to at least three additional districts. Prospective districts have been identified by the
Government and initial briefing sessions have been held with the district administrations.




                                               19
