e -
RETURN TO
REPORTS        D:)ESK                                        RESTRICTED
WITHIN                    FLE      COY                   Report No. PA-4*
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 2, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00         =  Pesos 3.90
Peso 1             US$ 0. 25
Pesos 1, 000     =  US$ 256.40
Pesos 1, 000, 000  =  US$ 256, 400
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS.
ACA     - Agricultural Credit Administration
AGLF    - Agricultural Guarantee and Loan Fund
APC     - Agricultural Productivity Commission
BPI     - Bureau of Plant Industry
DBP     - Development Bank of the Philippines
NDP     - National Gross Product
PNB     - Philippine National Bank
RB      - Rural Bank
RCPCC - Rice and Corn Production Coordinating Council



PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY .... . . ...................                  i
I.     INTRODUCTION  .   .   .                                    1 .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
II.    BACKGROUND  .   .   .   .                                   1 .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   ,  .
A.  General  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   1 .   .   .   .   .   .   .
B. Preser.t Situation in Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C.  Irrigation  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  3
D. Agricultural Extension and Research  . . . . . . . . . .  3
E. Agricultural Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
III.   THE RURAL BANKING SYSTEM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
A.  Organization  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .  5
B. Financial Resources and Operating Results  . . . . . . .  6
C.  Management  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  7
D.  Credit  Functions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
E.  Impact of First Rural Credit Project (Loan 432-PH)  . .  8
IV.   THE  PROJECT  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  9
A.  Description  .  ,  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  9
B.  Project  Area  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .  11
C.  Cost  Estimates  ,  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  11
D. Proposed Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
E. Disbursements .  ...................                    13
F.  Procurement  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  13
G. Organization and Management  . . . . . ... . . . . . . .  13
E.  Auditing  .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
I. Lending Policies, Terms and Criteria . . . . . . . . . .  15
V.     PRICES, MARKETS AND FARMERS' BENEFITS  . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Rice   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  16
Swine, Poultry and Fish Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Sugarcane  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  17
Farmers' Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
VII.   CONCLUSIONS  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  19
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission composed of
Messrs. F. Knobel, M. van Gent (Bank) and P. Lucani (FAO), which visited the
Philippines in August/September 1968, and who all contributed to the report
with Mr. Knobel having primary responsibility'.



ANNEXES
1.   Number and Size of Farms
2.   Production, Imports and Exports of Main Agricultural Products -
Tables 1-3
3.   The Rural Banking System -
Table 1 - Consolidated Balance Sheet
Table 2 - Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Table 3 - Costs and Returns of Lending Operations
Table 4 - Loans Made by Categories
Table 5 - Loans Made by Size and Terms
Table 6 - Loan Portfolio
Table 7 - Loans Made Classified as to Security
Table 8 - Total Resources, Loans, Deposits, Borrowings,
Capital Accounts and Yearly Growth
Table 9 - Summary of First Rural Credit Project (Loan 432-PH)
4.   The Central Bank -
Table 1 - Annual Balance Sheet
Table 2 - Annual Profit and Loss Statement
Table 3 - Farm Project, Development Plan
5.   Phasing of Investment Costs and Foreign Exchange Component
6.   Cash Flow Projections of Receipts and Disbursements -
Table 1 - The Central Bank
Table 2 - The Rural Banks
Table 3 - Bank Loan PH-432
7.   Cash Flow Projections of Farm Development Enterprises -
Table 1 - 5 Ha Irrigated Rice Farm, 2-Wheel Tiller
Table 2 - 25 Ha Rice Farm, 45 HP Tractor
Table 3 - 25 Ha Sugarcane Plantation, 65 HP Tractor
Table 4 - 5 Ha Rice Farm, Pump Irrigation (Not Mechanized)
Table 5 - 3,000 Layer-hen Poultry Farm
Table 6 - 20 Brood-sow Swine Farm
Table 7 - 1 Ha Fishpond
Table 8 - Fishing, up to 5-ton Boat
8.   Financial Rates of Return of Farm Development Enterprises
9.   Economic Rate of Return for the Project
10.   Importation of Farm Machinery, 1964-1967
OIRGANIZ.TION CEART
MAP



PHILIPPINES
SECO9D RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Central Bank of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan to
help finance the continuation of a rural credit project that began in 1965
when Loan 432-PH was granted for US$5 million.
ii.       Approximately 2,500 small farmers were beneficiaries under the
first project (Loan 432-PH). The bulk of the loan funds was used for pur-
chase of agricultural equipment, principally 2-wheel and 4-wheel tractors.
Preliminary information indicates that investments made for mechanization,
combined with a high level of production inputs of new high yielding seed
varieties, fertilizer and insecticides, resulted in net gains in income of
25-30% and improved the net worth position of farmers by 20-25% after one
to two years.
iii.      The second project would be a three-year lending operation, again
administered by the Central Bank, through about 200 rural banks selected by
the Central Bank. The project is designed to provide medium and long-term
credit to approximately 6,500 farmers for the following main purposes:
-    farm development - machinery, processing and storage
facilities, irrigation schemes;
-    livestock development - poultry and swine enterprises; and
-    fisheries development - fishponds, boats and equipment.
iv.       The! principal beneficiaries would be small farmers who roughly
could double their net annual income over a five to seven-year period. A
principal feature of the project is mechanization of land preparation which
permits more intensive utilization of land resources, resulting in higher
annual production and savings in costs. The economy would benefit from an
incremental annual production of paddy rice of about 185,000 tons, sugarcane
45,000 tons, and poultry, pork and fish products of about 20,000 tons. In-
creased rice production would assist the country toward its goal of achiev-
ing self-sufficiency and, together with the increased livestock, fish and
sugarcane production, would result after full development in an average
annual net improvement in the foreign exchange position of about US$13 million
due to import substitution and increased exports.
v.        Total project cost, estimated at US$25 million, would be financed
by the Bank loan 50% (to cover foreign exchange component), Central Bank 30%,
participating rural banks 10%, and farmers 10%. In the first project farmers
were expected to participate with 30%. This ratio was found to be too high
and had to be reduced to 10% after one year of operations; additional re-
scurces were provided by a Goverment Fund.



- ii -
vi.       The Central Bank would lend its funds and on-lend Bank funds, other
than a small amount required for technical services, to selected rural banks
at a blended interest rate of 7% (assuming a Bank interest rate of 6.5%) on
amortization terms similar to those granted by rural banks to farmers. Loan
terms to farmers would range from three to ten years at 12% interest per
annum, including a grace period when appropriate. Surplus funds derived from
the amortization of Central Bank loans to rural banks and not required for
amortization of the Bank loan would be relent by the Central Bank to rural
banks for further agricultural development under similar terms and procedures.
vii.      The second rural credit project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$12.5 million to the Central Bank of the Philippines, to be guaranteed by
the Republic of the Philippines, for a term of 14 years including a grace
period of four years.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Central Bank of the Philippines has applied to the Bank for a
loan to provide medium and long-term funds to rural banks for the financing
of agricultural development. This would be a se6ond loAn to the Central Bank
for this purpose. In 1965 the Bank made a loan (432-PH) of US$5 million,
which had been fully disbursed by the end of 1968.
1.02      The total investment proposed under the second project would be
about US$25 million, for which a Bank loan of US$15 million has been requested.
The request did not include a proposed ratio of participation by the Bank, the
Central Bank, participating rural banks and farmers, although the intent was
that at least 60% of project cost would be financed by the Bank loan. The
Bank after reviewing the application and appraising the project, found that
the Central Bank would have sufficient surplus fund8 from the turn-over of
the first loan and the proposed second loan plus other resources to make pos-
sible a reduction of the Bank loan to US$12.5 million, which would cover the
foreign exchange component estimated at 50% of total project costs. The
Central Bank would relend the proceeds of such a loan to qualified rural banks
to augment their medium and long-term lending capacity to agricultural pro-
ducers for approved development purposes.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission led by
F. Knobel and composed of M. van Gent and P. Lucani (FAO), which visited the
Philippines in August/September 1968.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of the Philippines comprises over 7,000 islands (see
Map), of which 11 account for nearly 90% of the total land area of about 30
million ha. Of this about 11 million ha of land can be used for agricultural
purposes, approximately 10 million ha are commercial forests, and the other 9
million ha are non-productive.
2.02      The population, currently estimated at 35 million, is increasing
at an annual rate of 3.2%. Agriculture employs around 60% of the total labor
force, produces some 32% of NDP, and originates production which accounts for
about 85% of total exports. The average size of farming operations is small
with around 80% of the farm units under five ha (Annex 1). Also the ratio of
tenancy to number of farms is high, being in the range of 50% and as high as
90% in some of the most densely populated areas of Central Luzon. Goverment
is encouraging, through its Land Reform Program, the conversion of share-
croppers into leaseholders preparatory to becoming landowners.



-2-
B. Present Situation in Agriculture
2.03      In most of the Philippine agriculture traditional farming prac-
tices are stili being used, but modern agricultural methods are more and more
applied. Farmers in many areas have quickly adopted the new high yielding
rice varieties, together with the required cropping practices (better land
preparation, fertilization, and disease and pest control). These varieties
were introduced by the International Rice Research Institute at Los Banos and
Government research programs, and promoted under the Government 's rice and
corn program. Increasing use of tractors for faster land preparation and the
shorter growing cycle of the new rice varieties have permitted double crop-
ping in one year and triple cropping over two years under irrigated condi-
tions. Farmers in large rice growing areas, however, are still using water
buffalo for land preparation, resulting in slower land preparation and lim-
iting opportunities for double cropping. On the other hand, double and triple
cropping cannot be introduced if adequate irrigation facilities are not avail-
able. Production of corn, sugarcane and coconut are also beginning to profit
from mechanization and other modern cultivation practices.
2.04      Out of the country's total cultivated area of 8.3 million ha in
1967, about 6.1 million ha are devoted to food crops. Of these, some 3 mil-
lion ha produce rice, the country's main crop, and 2 million ha produce corn.
Industrial crops are grown on 2.2 million ha, of which coconuts with 1.6 mil-
lion ha, sugarcane with 315,000 ha and abaca 1/ with '200,000 ha are the most im-
portant. Fish production in terms of tonnage is almost twice the production
of meat and poultry, taken together.
l
2.05      Average crop yields are still low by world standards and consider-
able areas of cultivable land are underutilized. Modern practices have dem-
onstrated their capacity to produce considerably higher yields, i.e., 3.5-5.0
tons of paddy rice per crop ha (national average: 1.3-1.5 tons), 2 tons of
corn per ha (national average: 0.7 tons) and 60 tons of sugarcane per ha
(national average: 46 tons). Constraints on mechanization and on the mope
rapid adoption of modern farming methods include the lack of credit to pur-
chase equipment and difficulties in fully exploiting both old and new irriga-
tion schemes.
2.06      The Philippines was near self-sufficiency in rice in 1968 and ex-
ported limited quantities of rice. According to a survey of the Department
of Agriculture and Natural Resources, total estimated paddy (rough rice)
production in 1968 would be around 4.2 million tons. This represents an in-
crease of about 7% over the 1967 production compared with an average annual
increase of 1.6% over 1960-1967. As the area devoted to rice production has
remained about the same, the increase in rice production is mainly attrib-
utable to higher yields per ha. In the priority areas, where the efforts of
the Government are mainly concentrated, yields per ha are estimated to have
increased by about 7.5%, passing from 1.44 tons/ha in 1967 to 1.55 tons/ha
in 1968.
1/ A fibe:, obtained from the leafstalk of a banana, native to the Philippines.



-3-
2.07      8wine production contributes about 60% of the total fresh meat
su:pply of 340,000 tons, and is increasing. Ilnports of about 100,000 tons of
meat are still necessary to meet demand (Annex 2). Poultry and egg produc-
tion is also presently insufficient to meet ifiternal demand in spite of the
increase of the chicken population from 49 million in 1963 to 67 million in
1967. Beef production has remained constant for several years at around
22,000 tons per year. The cattle population could be increased considerably
as there are vast underdeveloped pasture lands available, and grazing under
coconut plantings offers possibilities for development.
2.08      Fish is an important protein food in the Philippines.  Consumption
is about double that of meat. The Fisheries Commission estimates that about
65% of requirements are produced in the country. Production methods are
inefficient. The Government has prepared a four-year development program,
which covers both inland fishery (fish ponds) and coastal (fore-shore) fish-
ing.
C. Irrigation
2.09      In most agricultural areas there is a pronounced dry season that
prevents year-round cropping. Short dry periods of a few weeks also often
occur in the rainy season. Irrigation, therefore, in addition to being re-
quired to permit year-round cropping in areas with a pronounced dry season,
may also pay off by offsetting the unfavorable effects on production of dry
spells that occur in the rainy season. This would be the case for the Upper
Pampanga River project presently being considered for Bank financing. In
addition to Government-supported irrigation schemes there are many small
private gravity and pump irrigation systems.
2.10      Total irrigated area for rice approximates 750,000 ha in the rainy
season, of which only around 350,000 ha are irrigated in the dry season, per-
mitting two crops the year-round on this hectarage. However, few of the exist-
ing gravity irrigation systems can provide an assured regulated water supply.
When the Upper Pampanga River project is completed, about 70,000 additional
ha would be irrigated year-round instead of only during the wet season.
Statistics on the irrigated area in the Philippines, based on different as-
sumptions of what is full and supplemental irrigation, and on different es-
timates of privately irrigated area vary considerably. The above figures are
in accordance with those given in the Bank's Economic Report of May 1968.
Water rights are only required for open watercourses; use of groundvater is
not regulated and no licenses are required for installation of wells.
D. Agricultural Extension and Research
2.11      The Rice and Corn Production Coordinating Council (RCPCC) under
the Executive Secretary of the President is the main policy making body for
food production. Because of its success in increasing rice production, the
Council has expanded its scope of activity; in addition to rice and corn, it is
giving high priority to all food crops and also to fruits, fish and livestock.



-  4  
2.12      Extension services to farmers are provided by the Agricultural
Productivity Commission (APC) under the Office of the President and by the
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) under the Department of Agriculture and
Natural Resources. Both agencies are organized on a provincial level and
work under the supervision of the provincial RCPCC Director, who usually is
either the Provincial Director of APC or BPI. Technicians of other agencies,
such as the Presidential Arm on Community Development, the Bureau of Soils,
and the Bureau of Animal Industry occasionally provide extension services to
farmers.
2.13      Basic research is conducted by the College of Agriculture, Uni-
versity of the Philippines at Los Banos. In 1964 an IBRD Loan (393-PH) of
us$6 million was granted to the University of the Philippines to help finance
buildings and equipment required for a five-year research and educational
development program at the College of Agriculture. Contributing in a most
significant manner toward increased rice productivity in Southeast and South
Asian countries is the research and extension work being performed by the
International Rice and Research Institute at Los Banos. Research is also
done by the Bureaus of Plant Industry, Animal Industry, and Soils, of the
Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources at several stations distrib-
uted over the country. Several four-year agricultural colleges and lower
level vocational school3 provide practical training in agriculture and do a
limited amount of research work,
E. A ricultural Credit
2.14      Agricultural credit is available from both government and non-
government institutions. Government institutions include principally the
Philippine National Bank (PNB), the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP), the Central Bank and the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA).
Related to this category are some 380 rural banks which are partly (45% on
an average) Government owned. Abotut 40 private commercial banks and 25
private development banks represent most of the non-goverment sources of
institutional credit. As a whole, both government and private financial
institutions are active lenders in the agricultural sector. The PNB and DBP
grant 35-40% of their total annual lending volume to agriculture, the rural
banks 80%, the ACA 100%, and thf! private commercial banks 155. Total agri-
cultural credits granted by thetse institutions in 1967 amountred to, nearly
Y2.5 billion (US$640 million). Non-banking institutions including fertil-
izer dealers, farm machinery suppliers, shopkeepers, marketing and processing
firms, landlords and private money lenders still provide a substantial and
important amount of rural credits, particularly in regions of high tenancy.
2.15      The PNB is the oldest and largest bank in the Philippines; it
began operations in 1916 and holds about 35% of the total resources of the
entire banking system. PNB tends to limit its agricultural financing to the
commercial size farms and plantations, as exist for sugarcane and coconuts.
Though it does some financing for development, most of its lending is for
seasonal production inputs, processing and marketing. The DBP ?rovides me-
dium and long-term credit for the development of a wide range of agricultural



- 5 -
enterprises. It extends production credit only to its borroweirs where needed
to complement development credit. Loans made by the rural banks have been
almost entirely short-term and principally for production, processing and
marketing purposes. The ACA finances productIon and marketing cooperatives
but, where no viable cooperative exists, it makes direct loans to farmers
under the country's rice self-sufficiency program and in declared Land Reform
Distric-ts. It provides short-term credit for the smiaLl farmer which amounted
to r31 million (us$8 million) in the 1967/68 crop year for 56,000 farmers.
This would be an average loan of 9550 (US$135) per farmer. ACA expects to
double its volume of lending in 1968/69.
2.16      The Central Bank provides an important amount of revolving credit
to banks by re-discounting loans made for the production, importation of
inputs and distribution of agricultural products. Breakdown of this financing
by sector was not available except that the rural banks in 1967 received 973
million (U8$18 million) most of which would bf' for farm credits. Except for
the rural banks (para 3.04) re-discount terms are 80% of the face value of
the paper for rice and corn at 4% interest per annum and for minor products
at 7% interest for terms not to exceed 270 days.
2.17      Prevailing interest rates from institutional sources are 8-12%.
Noteworthy is the growing recognition of the value of a supervised credit
approach combined with technical services to the borrowers. The effective
cost of credit from suppliers of agricultural inputs is 15-18%, and is much
higher from traditional private lenders. A small farmer might borrow five
sacks of rice in kind for seed or consumptive purposes but would repay with
six sacks when he harvests his rice crop in 3-4 months time, thus paying the
equivalent of 60-80% per annum. Availability of credit at reasonable terms
for production and development purposes is still inadequate to meet the
demand, especially for the small agricultural producer.
III. THE RURAL BANKING SYSTEM
A. Organization
3.01      The Rural Banking System (rural banks), through which the proposed
loan would be channeled, reflects the culmination of some fifty years of
Government-sponsored efforts to establish a banking system that would provide
a uorkable solution to the age-old credit problem of small farmers. On
June 6, 1952, the Rural Banks Act was enacted into law (Republic Act No. 720).
The philosophy of the Act is to combine private and public capital in about
equal proportions to serve as "seed-capital" for the establishment of a sys-
tein of country-wide rural banks which would extend credit on reasonable terms
within the reach of small farmers, small merchants, cooperatives and rural in-
dustries. A uniqueness of the Rural Banking System is its ability to mobilize
private capital and blend it with Government support. The Act provides, inter
alia, that in the event government financial support is needed, Government may
purchase preferred stock in a rural bank in an amount equal to the fully paid
subscribed capital of the private shareholders. Today, in the whole Rural
Banking System, Government holds 45% of the total capital stock and private
stockholders the other 55%.



- 6 -
3.02      Rural banks are private banks created by authorization of the
Monetary Board. They are supervised by the Central Bank through its Depart-
ment of Rural Banks. See Organization Chart and Annex 3 for detailed in-
formation. There is no intervention by Government except that when a bank is
in distress, financial and managerial support is provided. Rural banks are
required to report regularly to the Department of Rural Banks on their finan-
cial condition, operating results and lending activities. Periodic inspec-
tions are made by well trained and qualified inspectors and examiners of the
Department of Rural Banks, who also make annual financial audits. Each bank
must submit its annual budget to the Department of Rural Banks for approval.
There are some 380 rural banks now operating as compared with 18 in 1953, and
new banks are opened almost monthly. See Annex 3, Table 8 for yearly growth
of rural banks.
B. Financial Resources and Operating Results
3.03      As of December 31, 1967, resources (assets) principally in the form
of cash, loans and investments aggregated 9409 million (US$1C5 million),
resulting in an increase of 70O0 during the last 10 years, 1958-1967. Paid-
up capital consisting of Y67 million (US$17 million) of privately held common
stock and 054 million (Us$14 million) of Government held preferred stock
amounted to 9121 million (US$31 million). Surplus and reserves amounted to
937 million (US$9.5 million) thus giving the Rural Banking System a favor-
able net worth ratio of around 35%. Deposits, largely savings, have in-
creased steadily. Some of this is due to the establishment of more banks,
but more is attributable to the growing number of rural depositors for banks
already operating. Deposits nearly doubled from P79 million (US$20 million)
in 1965 to 9142 million (US$36 million) in 1967. These resources materially
enhance the lending capacities of the rural banks since the legal reserve
requirements are only 6-10%, depending on the nature of deposits. See
consolidated balance sheet, Annex 3, Table 1. Also of importance to the
proposed project is that by regulation of the Central Bank, rural banks cE,n
have up to 30% of their deposits in medium and long-term loans.
3.04      Rural banks can rediscount short-term (270 days)   credit paper with
the Central bank at 2% for banks in operation less than two years and at 3%
for those over three years. This is a preferential rate accorded to rural
banks as the rate for other private commercial banks is 5.75-7% except for
credit used for the production of the two high priority crops, rice and corn,
for which the rate is 4%.  Total rediscount of short-term credit paper is
limited to 20% of paid-up capital plus surpluE and reserves., and a rural bank
is ineligible if its past due loans exceed 20% of its loan portfolio.   Thv
rural banks lend at 12% thus giving them a spread of 9-10%. The spread for
medium and long-term loans under the proposed project would be 5% for funds
provided by the Central Bank and Bank loan. These favorable spreads enable
the rural banks to build adequate reserves and to operate with a satisfactory
rate bf return on invested capital. The spread of 5% on the portion of each
loan made by rural banks to farmers out of funds borrowed from the Central
Bank (representing 89% of the total amount of each loan to farmers - para 4.21)
.s a source of additional income to rural banks and is sufficient incentire



-7-
to rural banks to provide 11% of each loan out of their own resources. More-
over, rural banks have experienced that medium and long-term lending under
the first project increased short-term demand as weli as savings resulting
frcm higher net farm income.
3.0)5     Of the 369 banks oper4ting in 1967, 85% re'Alized a net income. The
rates of return on private stockholders' investment (paid-up common stock)
ranged from 1-25% and averaged close to 8%. The rural banks must annually
set aside from net earnings an amount (determined by the Central Bank) so
that sufficient reserves may be accumulated within ten years to redeem the
Government owned preferred shares of stock. Seventeen banks, or less than
5%, were classified as "distressed" at the end of 1967; four of these were
in liquidation, and the others were under close management by the Department
of Rural Banks. The amount of past due loans (almost entirely short-te:m)
ranges around 16% of gross loan portfolio, or about one-half the national
average for all banking institutions. The Department of Rural Banks deter-
mines the amount of reserves that should be carried by a bank for bad and
doubtful accounts based on its financial audits, taking into account the age
of delinquencies, collectibility and collateral position.
C. Management
3.o6      Rural banks operate independently of one another under boards of
five to eleven directors, who must be Filipino citizens and shareholders of
voting stock. (Government has no voting power through its preferred stock.)
The key officer is the bank manager who is appointed by the Board subject to
the approval of the Central Bank. He is the operating head of the bank and
is responsible for the general management of its business affairs. He is
assisted by a. staff of 10-20 persons. Each bank has one or more inspectors
who examine borrowers' operations, establish the value of collateral and
service loans. Final action on all loan applications is vested in the Board
of Directors, but this can be delegated to the manager up to V1,000 (US$250),
and to a credit committee above rl,000 to V5,000 (US$1,300).
3.07      Another unique aspect of the Rural Banking System is the mobil-
ization of local personnel who, after varied periods of training and supervi-
sion, have beten transformed into good bankers. Previous training and profes-
sional experience for many might be as lawyers, teachers or certified public
accountants, and some outstanding managers are women. Overall, the perfor-
mELnce on the management level has been good.
D. Credit Functions
3.08      Rural banks make short-term loans to farmers cultivating up to 50
ha for the usual purposes such as: production costs, small equipment, purchase
of animals, poultry and fish for breeding purposes; to small merchants for
purchase of merchandise; to small industries for labor cost, raw materials
and marketing; and to cooperatives for production, processing, storage and
marketing of the products of their members.



3.09      Medium and long-;t!rm agricultural loans may be granted by approved
banks (para 4.20) for purchase and improvement of land; purchase of machinery,
fishing boats and equipment., construLction of facilities for li-vestock pro-
duction; developmenl; of irrigation schemes; construction of on-farm storage
and processing faciliti.es, qnd purchase of breeding animals.  Loans to indus-
trial and commercial enterp.r:,J.,es can be made for purchase and improvement of
land and. construction of facilities.  Abouit 80% of the rural banks' loan port-
folio is in farm loans.   Unwitil t,he advent of the first rural credit project
(Loan 432-PHI), less t-.)an 503 medium-term loans wfere granted, reflecting a
scarcity of funds and *t bwr profitabil:itir since the rate of interest could
not exceed 9Sea This -sas e   Zed to 12%e under the first proiect,  Detailed
figures on lending on   w;ions are given in Annex 3 Tables 14-7.
E.  Im.acto._f First f;uyad, Credit ProJect (Loan -132-PH)
3.10      The first Banki L1oEui of US$',' >nillion assisted in meeting the in-
creased credit requirements for agricultural development; in 1965-1968.  Loan
funds were channeled to SomV 140) rural banks wno relent the funds to about
2,500 farmers f'or purchasee of farm max-biriery  ir, rpgel:ion  umping units, and
construction of poultry z,in    ana fisiier,- enterprises.  Nearly 2,000 farmers
purchased 2-wheel wlJ.king ti:lers and 4-wheel tractors Tith related acces-
sories, utilizing 8O3 cr the Loaii for t1nese :..nlvestments. Close to 200 farm-
ers re2eived about ,% of t-h:ie r,o&n for the development of poultry, swine, and
fishery enterprises ane, the otherl 5. was used by about 275 farmers for devel-
opment of pump irrigatir-J Tielses   Two-thirds of' tile Loan funds were used by
slightly over 100 rural basLn:ksn Luzon Region where smRll farms and high ten-
ancy predominate and rice `. 'the most lnpOIrant crop,  The balance of the
Loan funds, wTere about eqLua'll 1Vsed by 1t,iral banks in the Visryas and Mindanao
Regions ( Annex 3, TabM -,1 ;
3.11      Investments mAdf fo,r mlechanization a,id, irrigation development have
been timely and profitable - caus;ing an increasing change in fanning prac-
tices toward more intena:`ve crorping   Survey information, conducted by the
Central Bank, Department ,9f Rural Banks, covering a random sample of 319 proj-
ect borrowers in 11 provinceai shows that through an investment input for
mechanization combi.ned -with a high level of production inputs of better yield-
ing seed, fertilizer, inse oici.des and herbicides gross croD production (rice,
corn, sugarcane) was inc:rea;3d around 40,, giving the farmer a net gain in
income of 25-30% and an. increase in net worth of 20-25%` over one to two years.
Information on changes in pork; poultry and fish production -s too limited to
be meaningful, but the Department of Bural Bunks will continue to evaluate
the impact of the first Loan as wel.l as the proposed second loan.
3.12      Overall, the 2,500 beneficiaries have received satisfactory
financial benefits attri.butable to.
-    savings in costs o.P nroduction with mechanized land preparation
as compared to the traditional systeims based on the use of
animal draft power;
-    use of tractors for custom (hire ? work.



-9 -
-    increased output due either to new land put under cultivation
or to groving a half crop more per year (land can be ready for
planting in a much shorter time); and
-    aouble cropping in the case of irrigation development in rice
fields.
3.13      Furthermore, it was noted that as regards loans for mechanization,
additional cash income derived from custom plowing enabled several farmers
to satisfy their financial obligations to the rural banks well in advance of
the terms. The number of past due loan installments is minimal (20 out of
approximately 2,500 loans) but, since the bulk of the loans was made in
1967/68, it is too early to make an assessment or repayment history.
3.14      Under the first Loan it was expected that the project cost would
be financed approximately IBRD 60%, participating rural banks 10% and farmers
30%. Initially, lending operations were slow due to the inability of many
prospective farmer-borrowers to make a contribution of this proportion and
the reluctance of rural banks to divert financial resources from short-term
operations into longer-term credit. Many banks considered that a spread of
9-10% on rediacounted short-term credit paper with the Central Bank, even
though limited to 270 days, was more profitable than a spread of 5.5% on medium-
term loans under the Project. The farmers' expected contribution of 30% proved
to be too high as it would need to be usually in cash because the type of
investment made by them (principally purchase of machinery) was not suitable
for a farmer's contribution in labor or kind.   Consequently, it was agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank to supplement the contribution of rural
bEnks and farmers by using funds from an Agricultural Guarantee and Loan Fund
(AGLF).  This Fund, established in 1966 by Government, provided V29 million
(US$7.4 million) to be used mainly to finance short-term credits to increase
rice and corni production but could be drawn upon to support the Project. Pre-
liminary figures show that total participation in financing project costs
averaged 55% Bank, 25% AGLF, 14% farmers, 5% rural banks, and 1% machinery
dealers (Annex 3, Table 9).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The proposed project would be for three years and would be a con-
tinuation and expansion of the agricultural credit program financed under
Loan 432-PH. It would consist of an agricultural credit operation designed
to provide medium and long-term credit facilities through qualified rural
banks to about 6,500 farmers for the purchase of farm machinery, production,
processing and storage facilities, the development of small irrigation systems,
and the development of poultry, swine and fishery enterprises.
4.02      Financing for farm machinery would include tractors and accessories
such as plows, harrows and rotovators, and equipment for spraying, dusting,



- 10 -
harvesting and drying operations. Also included is construction and equipment
of on-farm storage facilities, particularly for rice operations. The finan-
cing of private irrigation works would be mainly for purchase of pumping
equipment and motors, construction of wells and distribution works, and land
levelling.
4.03      Finance for fishery development would include the construction of
fresh and brackish water fishponds, purchase of small-size fishing boats (up
to about 5 tons) and their equipment for fishing. Financing of poultry and
swine enterprises would include the construction of buildings, facilities,
and initial laying or breeding stock.
4.04      Service vehicles for the field technicians are also provided in
the project. This will permit credit technicians to assist farmers and rural
banks in the preparation and supervision of farm development projects (para
4.15).
4.05      The following table gives the estimated scope and blend of the
project by major investment items:
Total Cost
Items                         Number of Units             (Pesos Million)
Farm Development
(Principally purchase of equipment)
2-wheel tillers                          2,000                       14.0
4-wheel tractors, 45 hp                  1,600                       38.4
4-wheel tractors, 65 hp                    550                       17.6
Irrigation pumps                         1,500                        7.3
Subtotal                                         77.3
Buildings and Equipment for
Livestock Development
Poultry farms                              200                        4.8
Swine farms                                200                        5.0
Subtotal                                          9.8
Fisheries Development
Fishing boats and equipment                1:0                        2.3
Fishponds      i                         2,500 (ha)                   7.5
Subtotal                                          9.8
Technical Services (Service Vehicles)       50                        0.6
Total                                            97.5



B. Project Area
4.o6      The project would be carried out in three principal agricultural
regions: Luzon, Visayras and Mindanao (see Map). The Luzon Region is princi-
pally Luzon Island which is the largest and most important island (42,000 sq mi).
Also, it is the oldest in land settlement, highest in population density,
highest in tenancy and is the "rice bowl" of the country. Trade, industry,
communications, business and finance revolve around iinila.   The Visayas
Region would include principally the islands of Panay, Negros and Leyte.
Thkey are characterized by a diversified agriculture - rice, sugarcane, corn
and other crops. Land tenure is mixed but farming operations on an average
are of a larger scale than in Luzon. Iloilo on Panay, Bacolod on Negros,
and Tacloban on Leyte are the principal trade and business centers. The
Mi.ndanao Region is Mindanao Island which is the second largest island (37,000
sq mi) in the Philippines. Its growth. and development have been rapid since
the end of World War II - having large areas of unused land and forests and
deposits of valuable minerals. It is now the leading area in coconut pro-
duction, although agriculture is quite diversified with rice, corn, ramie,
abaca, pineapple and livestock being important products. Mindanao enjoys a
fEvorable climate, is free of typhoons, and the rate of land tenancy is low.
The provincial capitals of Davao and Cotabato are the principal trade and
business centers.
4,07      It is estimated that 200 rural banks, or nearly 50% bf the present
total number of banks, would be eligible to participate in the project. The
distribution would be similar to that experienced under the first project
and would be about 125 banks in Luzon Region and 30-35 banks in each of the
Visayas and Mindanao Regions (see Map).
C. Cost Estimates
4.o8      Total project costs are summarized in the following table together
with the foreign exchange component.   Cost estimates are based on the expe-
rience in the first loan as well as on estimates derived from similar types
of developments financed by other governmental and private sources.
Equivalent in
Investment            Pesos (Million)           US$ (Million)      % of Total
Category          Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Expenditure
Farm development
including machinery
and facilities      31.1     46.2    77.3     8.0    11.9    19.9        79
Livestock devel-
opment                8.6     1.2     9.8     2.2     0.3     2.5        10
Fisheries devel-
opment               9.0     0.8      9.8     2.3     0.2     2.5        10
Technical services     -      o.6     0.6      _      0.1     0.1          1
Total Project Cost   48.7    48.8    97.5    12.5    12.5    25.0        100
Note: Figures are rounded.



- 12 -
The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$12.5 million. Further
details on phasing of investment costs and percentage of foreign exchange com-
ponent by investment category are given in Annex 5.
D. Proposed Financing
4.09      The project cost of US$25 million equivalent would be financed as
follows:
Farm        Livestock     Fisheries     Technical
Source        Development   Development    Development   Services    Total/a
UhSM)T% (U7YS) US$MY (%T (US$M) (%) lUS$M) (%)
IBRD            9.9    50     1.3     50     1.3    50    0.1   100   12.5   50
Central Bank    6.o    30      0.8    30     0.8    30     -     -     7.5   30
Rural Banks     2.0    10      0.2    10     0.2    10     _     _     2.5   10
Farmers         2.0     10     0.2    10     0,2    10     -     -     2.5   10
Total     19.9   100      2.5   100     2.5   100    0.1   100   25.0  100
/a   Figures are rounded.
The Bank loan, which would be channeled through the Central Bank, would provide
50% of total project cost. The Central Bank would contribute 30%, partly from
the surplus principal funds derived from the first loan and proposed second
loan and partly from Government funds, participating rural banks would contrib-
ute 10% and farmers 10%. iFarmers' 10% contribution towards the coset of each
investment project would be a minimum consistent with the objective of reach-
ing the smaller farmer. Some farmers, especially the larger, may be able to
contribute a higher percentage and rural banks would seek a larger contribution
where the individual farmer's resources would permit this. Each participating
rural bank would enter into a credit line agreement with the Central Bank
describing terms and conditions under which rural banks would obtain Bank and
Central Bank funds. Assurances to this effect and as to participation in
project costs were obtained during negotiations.
4.10      The modified (compared with first loan, para 3.14) proposed finan-
cial participation is a reasonable assessment of the financial capabilities
of the Central Bank, participating rural bankf,., and farmers to share in the
project cost. In view of the large demand on their available resources to
fulfill the high short-term credit demand, a 10% contribution of rural banks
is acceptable. The Central Bank would have surplus funds derived from prin-
cipal repayments by participating banks not required to amortize the first
Loan (432-PH) and the prcposed second loan, i.e., because of the differences
in lending terms. It is estimated. that these sources (Annex 6, Tables 1 and 3)
would yield about one-half of' its contribution required during the disbursement



- 13 -
period. The other half would come from Government appropriations, which in
1968/69 amounts to f21.3 million (US$5.4 million), to replenish the AGLF fund.
Together these sources would provide t29.1 million (US$7.5 million) towards
thes cost of the project. The Central Banks's contribution of 30w would be
satisfactory.
E. Disbursements
4.:L1     Disbursements from the Bank loan account would be made to the Central
Bank against '56% of the amount of farm loans (50% of project cost) disbursed
by rural banks upon documentation submitted by the Central Bank. Documen-
tation of disbursements certified by Central Bank project technicians, would
be retained on file at the CentraJ Bank, or a designated local depository
(para 4.16). Disbursement for tec'hnical services (service vehicles) would
be for the CIF cost as shown in supporting documents. Full disbursement of
the Bank loan would be achieved within a period of three years. See Annex 5
for phasing of investments.
F. Procurement
4.12      As in the case of the first credit project, agricultural machinery
and equipment, including irrigation equipment, engines for fishing boats and
fishing equipment would be purchased locally from firms representing major
international manufacturers, who maintain branches and dealers in all the
principal towns throughout the Philippines. Competition between these firms
is keen and services and repair facilities are satisfactory. The firms submit
their selling prices regularly to the Department of Rural Banks, Central Bank,
which advises rural banks and farmers on prices and mark-ups (see Annex 5
footnote).  Under these conditions farmers are allowed to choose the firm
they prefer for their purchases.
4.13      Sufficient private contractors are available for construction of
farm buildings and boats. Building materials, including lumber and cement,
are produced in-country. Likewise for farm machinery, farmers and fishermen
are permitted to choose the contractor for construction and supplier of equip-
ment. The size of individual contracts is too small to make international
competitive bidding practicable. The purchase of service vehicles would be
through local competitive bidding in accordance with the procedures agreed
upon with the Bank.
G. Organization and Management
4.14      The Central Bank would be responsible for administering the pro-
posed loan and supervising all operations under the project (see Organiza-
tion Chart). Considerable experience has been gained under the first project
which makes it desirable to streamline and decentralize most of the operations
under the second project.



- 14 -
4.15      Decentralization would include assignment to field headquarters by
Central Bank of its technical staff (supervised credit technicians) respon-
sible for the preparation and supervision of farm development plans and the
use of a farm plan development form (see illustrative form Annex 4, Table 3)
which would give a complete picture of the financial viability of each farm
plan and a random sample of actual results achieved. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.16      The practice under the first project was to send all credit instru-
ments to the Central Bank, Manila for processing and loan committee action.
In the future decentralization would include the approval of all loans by par-
ticipating banks. After the loan papers have been completed and disbursements
have been made by participating banks, the appropriate documents would be
forwarded to a branch office of the Central Bank or other financial institution
for safe keeping and examiination by an accredited loan officer of the Central
Bank. He would review the loan documents and loan disbursements made by
participating rural banks, and would then send an approved schedule of loan
disbursements to the Central Bank, M4anila. This schedule would be the basis
of remittance by Central Bank to the rural banks for the appropriate amount
of its (Central Bank) contribution and withdrawal from the Bank loan account.
Assurances that these decentralized lending operations would be introduced
were obtained during negotiations.
4.17      The Department of Rural Banks, Central Bank, has nearly 500 person-
nel. of which about half are in the Examination and Supervision Division. The
Department has increased its agricultural staff from 25 at the beginning of
the first project (1965) to 90 agriculturists. With the experience gained
and better utilization of their time (para 4.15), this number should be ade-
quate to handle the increased volunie of work for the second project. A few
more fishery specialists may be required but, in the interim, techriicians
from the Philippine Fisheries Commission can be called upon for assistance.
The technicians, who are classified as Supervised Credit Technicians, are
well accepted by the rural banks and enjoy a good reputation. The adminis-
trative services will be strengthened as required.
H. Auditing
4.18      Auditing procedures are satisfactory.   As required by law, an annual
financial audit is carried out by the Department of Rural Banks of each rural
bank to determine the soundness of its credit operations. In addition, rural
banks are required to submit annual financial statements of income and ex-
penditures and balance sheets to the Central Bank. Special examinations Of
rural banks are made as often as necessary to control the operations of those
banks which have operational difficulties or management problems.
4.19      In summary the organization and management aspects of the partici-
pating rural banks have been tested under the first Bank Loan, and have nroved
successful. The staff of thV Department of Rural Banks, Centrl Bank, is
capable and competent to deal with and supervise the rural banks.



- 15 -
I. Lending Policies, Terms and;Criteria
4.20      The Central Bank would continue to select the rural banks to partic-
ipate ih the lending program as in the first credit project. Criteria of selec-
tion (see Annex 3, para 23) to be applied would include:
(i) Character, capacity and integrity of officers;
(ii) Past performance with respect to the soundness of
investments and compliance with the law and regula-
tions and generally accepted banking practice;
(iii) Soundness of financial position as based on liquidity
position, adequacy of equity and profitability;
(iv) In operation for at least two years;
(v) Rediscounting facilities with the Central Bank not withdrawn
within the past year; and
(vi) Assessment of the demand for the type of loans envisaged
under the lending program as well as the willingness and
financial capabilities of a rural bank to contribute at
least 10% of project cost.
Assurances to these conditions were obtained during negotiations.
4.21      The Central Bank would lend its funds and on-lend Bank funds to
qualified rural banks at a blended interest rate of 7% per annum (assuming
a Bank interest rate of 6.5%) on the basis of 50-30 ratio of financing proj-
ect costs by Bank and Central Bank respectively. The interest rate on farm
loans by rural banks would be 12%. This would give the rural banks a spread
of 5% on funds borrowed from the Central Bank and, given their financial re-
sources, this spread would be reasonable. Participation in loans to farmers
wouLd be equivalent to 56% Bank funds, 33% Central Bank funds and 11% rural
banks funds. Amortization terms for Central Bank loans to the participating
banks would be the same as for those granted by the banks to the farmers (para
4.22). This would give the Central Bank a closer administrative control over
the relending program envisaged during the term of the proposed loan (para
4.23). The cost of project technicians would be paid by the Central Bank out
of 'Lts interest earnings on funds lent to the participating banks. The Central
Banks would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. During negotiations
assurances as to these terms and conditions were obtained.
4.22.     Participating rural banks would receive and evaluate the loan appli-
cations, assess the creditworthiness of applicant-borrowers, inspect the
offered security to determine its collateral value, assume the commercial
credit risk of loans made, and would provide short-term production credit
when needed. All loans would be approved by them but would be based on farm
development plans recommended by Central Bank supervised credit technicians
who would also supervise the implementation of farm development plans. The
payment terms would be geared to the cash projections of the farm development



-6 _
plans. The maximum aggregate medium or long-term loan that may be granted to
a single borrower is 10% of Et bank's paid-ulp capital plus surplus, except when
specifically permitted by the Central Bank, in which case it may be increased
to 15%.  Terms of farm loans would range from three to ten years, the average
being around six years, and would include a grace period when needed.   Loans
would be made to owner-operator and leasehold farmers cultivating up to 50 ha.
The latter are in Central Luzon region where the Land Reform Program has
converted about one-third of the tenant farmers from sharecroppers to lease-
holders. A leasehold contract gives land tenure at a fixed annual rental.
Assurances were obtained as to these terms and conditions during negotiations.
4.23      During the term of the Bank loan (14 years), the Central Bank would
relend principal repayments received from rural banks not required to amortize
the proposed Bank loan. This together with Central Bank contribution would
increase the lending program by about r120 million (US$30 million) or more
than two times the amount of' the proposed Bank loan (Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2).
Assurances with respect to the relending program were obtained during nego-
tiations.
V.  PRICES  WkFEPETS AND FARME1S' BEEFITS
Rice
5.01      Prices for paddy rice at warehouse fluctuate around ?365 (US$95) per
ton. This is the floor price at which the Government, through the Rice and
Corn Administration (RCA) stands ready to buy clean, dry paddy at 14% moisture
content. This price assures efficient producers a reasonable profit and is at
about the level of world market prices. A price of V365 (US$95) per ton for
paddy rice is roughly eouivalent to the f.o.b. price, Bangkolk, of Thai white
rice, 5% broken. Prices for this grade varied from US$136 to US$163 per ton
betwteen 1961 and 1966 and. rose to US$206 per ton in 1967. The long term
equilibrium price is estimated at US$140 per ton.
5.02      The RCA's policy is to procure paddy rice through private bonded
warehouses, farmers' cooperatives (FACOMAS) and, in certain areas, 'through
direct purchase only in the qjuantity needed to support paddy prices, and to
accumulate a reserve stock a(dequate to take care of contingencies, rice price
stabilization and eventual e:-ports. Payments to farmers are effected on
the basis of warehouse receiluts issued by a bonded warehouseman. In 1967/68,
about 10% of total paddy pro3duction was procured by the RCA, 4% by the farm-
ers' cooperatives and 54% by private traders, while the rest of the production
remained on the farms for self-consumption.   The RCA price support policy in
the country has been effective, notwithstanding some financial difficulties,
especially in the second ha:Lf of 1968. The network of buying stations prps-
ently covers almost the whole country.
5.03      In view of a possible but small exportable surplus of rice in the
coming years, RCA is exploring foreign markets.  Prospects, at least for the
short term, appear good as Philippine rice can be produced at competitive



- 17 -
prices. A few test exports have shown that quality standards must be improved.
For 1968 and 1969 RCA will handle all exports and it is enforcing a strict
quality control at its warehouses.
Swine, Poultry and Fish Products
5.04      Marketing of swine andl poultry products is organized by private
brokers and middlemen who buy directly from the farmers. Prices of these
products have shown a constant upward trend from 1960 to 1967. Since no
organized marketing network exists, problems could eventually occur for large
size production programs. Marketing of fish is traditionally handled by
middlemen or by the fishermen, who sell directly on the local markets. Pro-
duction of meat anid fish is increasing at about the same rate as local demand
with imports remaining at the same level since 1962.
Sugarcane
5.05      At present about 40% of Philippine sugar production goes to the
domestic market and about 60% to the United States under a quota agreement
which expires by the end of 1971. For several years total sugar production
has been around 1,850,000 short tons and requirements for domestic consumption
(735,000 short tons in 1968) made it impossible to fulfill the U.S. quota
(1,416,000 short tons for 1968). A sugar production council and a sugar
quota board coordinate between Government, planters and millers and agree on
quotas for domestic and export production and on domestic prices. The plant-
er's share of the mill price is generally about 60% while the remainder is
the miller's share.
Farmers' Benefits
5.06      Analyses of expected financial benefits to farmers have been made
on the basis of several illustrative types of development enterprises that
could be expected to be financed under the proposed project (See Annex 7,
Tables 1-8). These analyses show that substantial increases in net annual
income would be derived from investments envisaged under the lending program
of the proposed project. For instance, farmers operating 5 ha rice farms
(fully irrigated) with an investment in a two-wheel power tiller could increase
their annual net income from about V2,000 to r5,000 (US$500-US$1,300); and
that farmers operating 5 ha rice farms (not mechanized) but with pump irriga-
tion development could increase their annual net income from about ?600
(US$150) to t2,000 (US$500).  While these figures are only indicative, they show
th&t ample benefits can be achieved. Largely, this would be attributable to
farster and better land preparation through mechanization. The following table
compares the net income before and after development that could be realized by
farmers participating in the project.



-18-
Net Income /-
(Pesos '000)
Before    After
New Equipment          Develop- Develop-
Annex 7   Farm Enterpri_se     _        or Development           ment      ment
Table 1   5 ha irrigated rice           2-wheel tiller             2.2       5.1
Table 2   25 ha irrigated rice          4-wheel tractor, 45 hp   11.1       24.9
Table 3   25 ha dryland sugarcane       4-wheel tractor, 65 hp   13.7       22.6
Table 4   5 ha rice, not mechanized     irrigation pump           o.6        2.2
Table 5   3,000 layer-hen poualtry      new development             -       15.5
Table 6   20 brood-sow swine            new development             -       12.4
Table 7   1 ha fishpond                 new development             -        1.0
Table 8   5-ton boat (20 man crew)      new acquisition             -        5.6
/a   After operating costs and before debt service.
The financial rates of return to the beneficiaries of the project would be high-
ranging from about 30-65% (in one case 100%). See Annex 8.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The direct benefits from the project would derive from the increase
in output expected principally as a result of mechanization (from loan bene-
ficiaries and farmers who hire mechanized services), irrigation development,
and of development of poiltry, pork and fish production. Mechanization and
irrigation would primarily affect rice production in line with the Government's
policy directed towards intensification of rice production in the most favorable
areas, thus progressively releasing marginal rice lands for other uses. On-
farm mechanization of sugarcane production would contribute toward meeting
the country's increasing domestic demand and its export requirements. The
increased production of rpoultry, pork and fish products would serve as a
substitute for imports. Total annual incremental increase in production of
these products during the life of each farm development project, ranging from
6 to 10 years, is summarized in the following table:



- 19 -
Incremental
Product                         Production                Gross Value
(Tons t0)(? million)             (US$ million)
Rice                               185.0              65.7            16.8
Sugarcane                           45.0              21.4             5.5
Poultry (meat)                       0.6               1.2             0.3
Eggs                                 6.o              io.6             2.7
Pork                                 3.5               7.0             1.8
Fisli                                8.o               7.3             1.9
Total                       113.2            29.0
6.02      After allowance for the foreign exchange component of production
inputs and the proposed Bank loan (equivalent of 100% of foreign exchange cost
of proJect investments), the total net improvement in the foreign exc]aange
position as a result of import substitution and exports would average about
M50 million (US$13 million) annually after full development.
6.03      As with other agricultural projects which rely for a large part of
their success upon credit to and participation of small farmers, a quantitative
assessment of the overall benefits cannot be made with accuracy. The economic
rate of return would be high since at the present stage of farming practices
in the project areas the simple additional inputs involved produce incremental
outputs of relatively high value. The internal rate of return to the economy
bas,ed on the incremental net value of increased production after reflecting
the cost of technical and administrative services performed by the Central
Bank and rural banks, and capital costs for project investments would be about
35% (Annex 9).
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.0:L     The proposed credit program is sound and economically justified.
Returns on the investment both to farmers and to the economy as a whole would
be very favorable.
7.02      The Department of the Rural Banks in the Central Bank and the par-
tic:Lpating rural banks are experienced and capable of handling the increasing
volume of operations. There is an effective demand for medium and long-term
credlit in the rural areas to be served by the participating rural banks.
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.5 million to the
Central Bank of the Philippines, for a term of 14 years including a four-year
grace period. The loan would cover about 50% of total project cost.
May 2, 1969






A N N E X E S






ANNEX I
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Number and Size of Farms, in the Philippines
Size of Farms           Number                        Percentage
ihectares)
less than 1               249,773
1 - 5                1,506,459                        69.5
5 - 10                 289,730                        13.4
10) - 50                116,997                         5.4
100 and above              2,819                         0.1
Total          2,165,778                       10000
Source: 1960 Agriculture Census of the Philippines






ANNEX 2
Table 1
PHILIPPRIES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Output of Main Agricultural Products
('000 metric tons)
Ca t e g o r y                                    Crop Years
1966        1967         1968 -
Food Crops
Palay (rough rice)                         14,073       4,094        4,363
(yield per ha/kg)                   (1,310)     (1,323)      (1,378)
(cultivated area, 1,000 ha)         (3,109)     (3,096)      (3,166)
Corn  (shelled)                            1,380        1,1435        -
(yield per ha/kg)                      655      ( 662)          -
(cultivated area, 1,000 ha)         (2,106)     (2,167)         -
Export Crops
Copra                                      1,485        1,1418        -
Sugar (centrifugal and muscovado)          1,460        1,619         -
Pineapple                                    168          208         -
Fishery Products
Marine Fisheries                              612         713         _
Fishponds                                      614         65         -
Meat v
Swine                                        240          279
Poultry                                       32           35         -
Beef                                          22           22         -
1/ Preliminary estimates.
2/ Dressed weight.
Source: Bureau of Agricultural Economics.






AMNEX 2
Table 2
PHILIPPDIES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Value of Agricultural Imports
(US$ Million)
Commodity                 1962    1963    1964    1965    1966
Cereals                    87      105     123     155     123
Coffee, tea                28       59      66      95      53
Dairy                       2        2       3       4       3
Meat and Fish              31       19      24      26      29
Tobacco                    18       16      18      19      24
Textile fibres             29       26      23      22      25
ANNEX 2
Table 3
Value of Agricultural Exports
(US$ Million)
Commodity                 1962    1963    1964    1965    1966
Coconut products           168     2b4     2147    270     280
Sugar                      132     160     171     1l7     lhi
Abaca                       28      38      33      26      22
Fruit and vegetables        14      11      13      15      12
Tobacco                     12      13      17      16      12
Forest products            128     179     178     194     2h4
Source:  Statistical Bulletin - Central Bank.



I



ANNEX 3
P H I L I P P I N E S
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Rural Banking System
A.   History
1.       l pTe present Rural Banking System is 16 years old.   The Rural
Banks Act_ was approved June 6, 1952, and the first bank organised was
The Rodriguez Rural Bank, Inco   It was inaugurated in Pasig, Rizal,
December 11, 1952.   Quoting from Section 2 of the Act the purpose of
Congress in adopting the Rural Banks Act was as follows: "To promote
and expand the rural economy in an orderly and effective manner by
providing the people of rural communities with a means of facilitating
and improving their productive activities and to encourage cooperatives,'
2.        The Rural Banks Program is the culmination of almost half a
century of government sponscrsd efforts to provide a lasting credit
system readily available at reasonable terms to the small entrepreneur
producer in agriculture, industry and comnmerce.   Some 15 legislative
measures had been adopted by Government between 1907 and the passage of
the Rural Banks Act in 1952.   Among these measures were those authori-
zing the establishment of pre-war agricultural banks, cooperatives,
marketing agencies and rural banks.   Most of these credit institutions
failed largely because of lack of trained personnel and absence of
rediscounting facilities.
3.        The growth rate of the Rural Banking System has been steady
and impressive.   From a beginning of 18 banks chartered in 1953 it has
expanded to some 380 banks now operating in nearly all of the provinces.
Also it is of interest to note that the Central Bank has 600 applications
pending for new banks.   The rate of expansion expressed in terms of
resources, deposits, loans and capital accounts is summarized in Table 8.
Since the beginning the Rural Banking System has extended Y1.6 billion
(US$410 million) in rural credits through 2.3 million loans.   In 1967
it granted about 364,000 short-term loans and about 2,700 medium-term
loans for a total amount of /335 million (US$86 million).
1    Republic Act No. 720 and amendments.






ANNEX 3
Page 2
B.   Special Features and Privileges
4.        To overcome the past difficulties of developing a durable
rural credit scheme, the Rural Banks Act embodies these important
features:
i. The matching of private investm nt by Government
counterpart capital assistanceJ up to a 50-50
ratio;
ii.   Full management of a rural bank by the private
stock holders (common stock shares);
i.i.   Training of bank personnel by the Central Bank;
iv.   Continuing supervision examination of the manage-
ment and financial operations of each bank; and
v,   Rediscounting privileges with the Central Bank.
5.        Other important privileges which rural banks enjoy are:
i.   Exemption of rural banks with net assets not
exceeding t1 million (US$257,000) excluding
government counterpart capital from the payment
of all taxes, fees and charges whatever nature
and description;
ii.   Exception from sharing in the cost of maintaining
the Department of Supervision and Examination of
the Central Bank;
iii.   Technical assistance in the form of organizational
and promotional services; and
iv.   Farm advisory service to rural banks and their
borrowers.
The main reason for the above privileges is to give rural banks a strong
incentive for undertaking the economic objectives of the Rural Banks PrograoJ
C.   Organization
6.        Rural banks are stock corporation, organized with a board of
directors of 5-11 members who must be Filipino citizens and shareholders
of voting common stock.   The executive officers are the president,
2/ Non-voting preferred stock shares which bear maximum dividend rate
of 2%.






ANNEX 3
Page 3
vice-president, manager, treasurer or cashier, and secretary.    The
manager, who often is the president, carries out the policies of the
board and administers daily bank operations.   Most rural banks are
established and capitalized by close family groups.    The number of
stock holders usually is between 10 to 20 persons, though a few banks
have more than 100 small stockholders.    Generally the staff is
10-20 employees, many of whom may be related.    This closeness has had
the tendency to narrow the base for capital formation and management,
but on the other hand, it has successfully achieved the mobilization
of local capital and human resources.
D.   Adninistration and Supervision
7.        Rural banks are chartered by a Certificate of Authority
from the M.onetary Board of the Central Bank.   The Department of Rural
Banks of the Central Bank supervises their operations.   Supervisioral
functions and services are varied and extensive - all without cost to
the rural banks.   When a bank is organized, following a feasibility
study by the Department, initial and follow-up training is given the
officers and key personnel by the Institute of Rural Banking Division
which is within the Department.   Varied agricultural advisory services,
organizational and promot;ional services, research and accounting servi-
ces are also provided.   Periodic inspections are made to assure com-
pliance with rules, regulations and policies in addition to an annual
financial audit.   See Chart for organizational stracture of the
Lepartment of Rural Banks.
E.   Credit Functions
8.        Rural banks can make loans to the following types of borrowers:
i.   Small farmers owning or cultivating not more than
50 ha of land;
ii.   Small merchants, operators of rural industries or
enterprises whose capital investments do not
exceed 125,000 (US$6,400);
iii.   Operators of essentialJ/rural industries or enterprises
regardless of the amount of capital involved; and
iv. Cooperatives of small farmers and merchants.
Producers of livestock and poultry, and fishermen and fishpond owners are
considered "farmers".
1/ Deemed essential if the goods pro'duced ere those ordinar.ly purchase-
1-i the low inrome groups arc ace usef>A or nece;zcry i- iheir daiLJv
ecunno.v  ac I `cLtie:3.






ANNEX 3
Page h
F.   Types of Loans, Purposes and Terms
'hort-Term
9.        Short-term loans, not to exceed one year, may be granted to
iarmers for the usual production purposes:
- seeds, fertilizers, weedicides, insecticides, harvest-
ing and marketing of products,
- purchase of animals, poultry and fish for breeding
purposes,
- minor farm improvements and repairs, and
- current taxes and irrigation charges.
Short-term loans for 120 days may be granted to small merchants for pur-
chase of merchandise for resale, and to small industries for 180 days for
labor, raw materials and marketing.   The interest rate is 12% per annum.
Loans may be renewed for half of the original period provided the reason
is meritorious, and the interest and 30% of the original loan are paid.
Medium and Long-term Loans
10.       With the prior approval of the Director, Department of Rural
Banks, Central Bank, a rural bank may grant medium and long-term loans,
provided its unimpaired capital plus savings and time deposits total not
less than 1200,000 (US$51,000) and provided its unimpaired capital is
riot less than 1100,000 (US$25,000).   The amount of medium and long-term
loans may not exceed 30% of a bank's total savings and time deposits.
ThMey may be granted for such purposes as:
- purchase of farm land,
- improvement of agricultural, commercial and industrial
real estate, and
- acquisition of agricultural or industrial machinery,
tools and other equipment needed for operations, and
breeding animals.
Loans with maturities of more than one year but not exceeding five years
Ire considered medium-term, and those with maturities of more than five
years are considered long-term.   Usual loan terms are three to seven
years but a maximum period of 20 years is allowable for the purchase of
farm land.   The maximum aggregate loans which a rural bank may grant
to a borrower is 10% of its unimpaired capital and surplus except when
permitted by the Central Bank, in which case it may be increased to 15%.
The maximum interest rate is 12%, and loans are amortized annually






ANNEX 3
Page 5
unless the borrower elects to pay in monthly, quarterly or semi-annual
installments.   The amount of loan shall not exceed 70% of the appraised
value of the land and improvements if Torrens Title can be fvrnished
and not more than 50% without Torrens Title.   The loan value of movable
property, e.g., machinery, livestock, shall not exceed 50% of the
appraised value.
Supervised Credit Program
11.       The first rural credit project (Loan 432-PH) comes under this
program of the Department of Rural Banks.   Well qualified agriculturists
are selected and trained to work as supervised credit technicians, assist-
ing farmer-borrowers in the preparation and analysis of the financial
viability of farm development projects.  Although rural banks make
independent inspections, chiefly to determine the collateral value of
any required loan security, the farm plans are the basis for approval
of loans and subsequent supervision by the supervised credit technicians.
These technicians devoted about 70% of their time to the first project
and worked the other part of their time on short-term production loans
made by rural banks from the Agricultural Guarantee and Loan Fund (AGLF).
It is envisaged that this supervised credit program would be continued
for the proposed second rural credit project.   Final action on all loan
applications lies with the board of directors.  However, the board may
delegate to the manager the power to act on loan applications up to
Y1,000 (US$255) and to the credit committee those from a.,001 to p5,000
(US$1,275).   All in excess of Y5,000 must be acted on by the Board.
G.   Financial Resources
12.       The Rural Banking System continues to show an impressive growth
rate.   In the 3-year period, 1965-67, total assets increased nearly 50%;
deposits increased 80% and net worth 30%.   At the end of 1967 aggregate
assets were h408 million (US$105 million) of which about 80% is represen-
ted by net loan investments; paid-up capital stock nl2l million
(US$31 million), of which 55% is common stock owned by private investors
and the other 45% is preferred stock held by Government.
13.       Reserves in the form of surplus, undivided profits and reserves
for retirement of preferred shares and contingencies increased over
15% annually during the 3-year period, 1965-1967.  At the end of 1967
total reserves aggregated ?37 million (US$9.5 million).  When added to
paid-up capital stock of 121 million (US$31 million), the Rural Banking
System has a strong net worth ratio of around 35,'.
14.       By regulation of the Central Bank, rural banks must set aside
from net savings a certain amount determined by Central Bank such that
sufficient reserves may be accumulated within ten years to redeem Govern-
ment owned preferred stock.   This is required before payment of dividends
on common stock as well as allowance for the 2% dividend that Government's






AI= NEX3
Page6
preferred stock carries.  In practice the Government has not called for
payment of its preferred stock nor dividends.
:L5.      Rural banks augment their short-term lending resources through
a rediscount mechanism with the Central Bank.  Prevailing rediscount
rates, established by the Monetary Board, are 2% for banks in operation
less than two years and 3% for those in operation over two years.
Agricultural and industrial paper is limited to 270 days and commercial
paper to 180 days.   Total rediscounts are limited to 20% of paid-up
capital plu,s surplus and reserves and a bank is ineligible if its past
dlue loans exceed 20% of its loan portfolio.
16.       A rural bank may borrow from the Development B^'k of the
Philippines (DBP) repayable in 10 years at 2% interest p_;.. annum, against
any security which. may be offered by stock holders of a rural bank,
provided:
i.   that the Monetary Board is convinced that the
resources of the rural bank are inadequate to
meet the legitimate credit requirements of the
locality wherein the rural banks operate;
ii.   that there is a dearth of private capital in the
said locality; and
iii.   that it is not possible for the stockholders of
the rural bank to increase its paid-up capital.
The experience has been that few loans have been obtained from DBP because
it has not had the financial resources to grant such loans.
L7.      Savings and time deposits are an important source of loan capital
-to the rural banks.  Total deposit liabilities nearly doubled during the
3-year period, 1965-1967 from P79 million (US$20 million) to 1142 million
(US$36 million).  Interest rates are fixed by the Monetary Board. Today,
the maximum rates are 5 3/4% compounded quarterly on savings deposits and
5 3/4-6 1/2% on time savings in accordance with a schedule of 90 to 360
diays or more.  See Table 1 for condensed statements of financial condi-
tion, 1965-1967.
H.   Operating Results
18.      Overall, the profitability of rural banks has been good.  In
1967, 85% of banks made an operating profit.  The rate of return on the
private stockholderst investment (paid-up common stock) ranged from less
than 1% to 25% and averaged close to 8%.  Only 17 banks, or less than
5% of total, were classified as "distressed banks".  Four of these were
in liquidation, and the others were under close supervision management b-
the Department of Rural Banks.






AI'UEX 3
Page 7
19.       The amount in past due loans, almost entirely short-term,
ranges around 16% of gross loan portfolio, or about one-half of the
national average for institutional lenders.
20.       The system of financial audit conducted by the Examination
and Supervision Division of the Department of Rural Banks, Central Bank,
ensures that adequate reserves are maintained for bad and doubtful loan
accounts.   The audits include, inter alia, a detailed examination of
the age of delinquency, probability of payment and collateral value of
the security.   The Central Bank then determines the amount of reserve
that must be carried by each bank against its gross loan portfolio.
The net balance is shown as the net loan investment in the balance
sheets.   Each bank must submit a weekly trial balance to the Department
Df Rural Banks which gives further control over the provision of needed
reserves.
21.       Table 2 gives the detail of income and expenses, and Table 3
shows the costs and returns of lending operations in actual terms and
percentages.   The percentage of income is high (around 12%).    The
average cost of funds is low (slightly less than 2.5%).    Administration
and other expenditures account for about 6% of total loan portfolio.
Mhe rate in 1967, 5.7%, was the lowest in the history of rural banks,
operations.   A continuing decline can be expected as the banks on the
whole are well staffed and capable of handling larger volumes of business
without an appreciable increase in administrative costs.    Net income
fluctuates around 4%.
H.   Management
22.       Though few of the rmanagement level had banking experience prior
to operating a rural bank, the overall performance has been good.
Previous training and professional experience may have been as lawryers,
School teachers or certified public accountants and it is noteworthy that
some outstanding managers are women.   Quite commonly the owners of a rural
bank are a related family group and key personnel might have close family-
ties.   The training programs conducted by the Institute of Rural Banking
Division Department of Rural Banks, together with close and continuous
supervision, have been effective in transforming non.-career banking people
into bankers.
I.   Qualifications of Participating Banks
23.       Under the first credit project, rural banks were authorized by
the Central Bank, upon recommendation of the Department of Rural Banks, to
participate in the project.   A qualified bank was designated on the baeis
of these criteria:
i.   character, capacity and integrity of officers;






.e-ut, u3
ii.   past performance with respect to the soundness
of its investments and its complianc:e with the
law and regulations and generally accepted
banking practice;
iii.   soundness of its financial position as based on
liquidity position, soundness of loan portfolio,
adequacy of equity and profitability;
iv.   in operation for at least two years;  and
v.   not denied rediscounting facilities with the
Central Bank within the past year.
It is expected that the above criteria would be applied under the proposed
second project.   However, it was noted by the mission that not all quali-
fied banks (134 out of 177) participated in the first project, and that
the participation of many was nominal.   It is believed that the Central
'Bank should fully assess the farmer demand for credit to finance the types
of development projects envisaged under the project; and, furthermore,
that the approval of a rural bank to participate should also reflect its
management and financial capabilities to actively participate in the
project.
J. Decentralization of Project Operations
24.       A principal concern of participhting banks un'ler the first
project has been the time required to process a loan and the need to often
'hand-carry loan documents to the Central Bank, Manila to get action. The
requirements and loan papers are voluminous and cumbersome.    Streamlining
and simplification could be achieved by decentralizing the approval of all
Loans to the banks, reducing the number of requirements for compliance,
shortening loan document forms, eliminating unnecessary copies, and the use
Df branch offices of the Philippine National Bank (PNB) as depositories
for valuable loan papers.   PNB has a country-wide distribution of 60
branch offices and acts as trustee for the Central Bank for cash and
security reserves required of the rural banks.
25.       Further efficiency could be gained by assignment to field head-
quarters of the supervised credit technicians responsible for preparation
and supervision of farm development plans made under the proposed project.
This would achieve a sizeable improvement in their output and would also
result in substantial savings in administrative costs for the Department
of Rural Banks.   Under the first project it was the practice to bring
the technicians to Manila every 30 days for about a week of "reporting",
and then issue new travel orders.   This practice was to enable the tech-
i.icians to receive a per diem allowance while away from headquarters but
wbich would cease after being at a station for more than 30 days.    The
transportation cost to Manila and the per diem allowance have been substa2-
tial, as well as reducing a techniciants productivity by about 25'%






92CCND RIRn CREDITFPROJECT
RURAL BANKS
~(Pesos N.)
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1965-67
1965      1966      1967
ASSETS
Net loan portfolio                     221.?     261.1     333.0
Cash and due by banks
Cash in hand                           5.5       5.9       7.3
Checks and other cash                  1.1       1.3       1.9
Due from banks                        15.6      23.9      31.3
Due from Central Bank                  7.2       2.8
Subtotal                         29.4      33.9      43.6
Other Assets
Investment in bond                      10.0      6.9        6.8
Accounts receivable                      0.9       1.0       1.1
Bank premises (net)                      6.5       7.4       8.1
Furniture fixtures                       3.2       3.2       3.5
Traisportation equipment                 1.0       1.2       1.4
Stationery and sepplies                   -         -         -
Assets acquired in settlement of loans   5.3       7.6       9.6
Leasehold improvements                   0.2       0.2       0.3
Other assets                             0.8       0.9       1.4
Subtotal                           27.9      28.4      32.2
Total                                  279.0     323.4     408.8
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                          3.5       3.8       4.2
Saving deposits                         72.2      90.7     112.5
Time deposit                             3.0       6.h      25.2
Due to banks                             0.2       1.5       4.4
Cashier's check                          0.1        -        0.7
Notes payable (rediscount)              68.1      70.3      79.1
Dividend payable                         0.6       0.4       1.0
Accounts payable                         1.5       1.7       1.6
Loans payable                             -      - 1.4       9.0
Inspection fees                          0.1       0.1       0.1
Unsecured interest & discount            7.9       9.8      11.4
Other liabilities                        0.2      0.h        1.5
Total                                  157.4     186.5     250.7
NETWORT
Capital stock coumon                    52.8      60.1      67.1
Capital stock preferred                 44.3      47.5      53.9
urplwu                                   5.1      6.o        6.
Undivided profits                        8.4       8.4L     11.0
Res. for retirement of preferred
shares                              9.9      13.7      17.9
Res. for contingencies                   1.1       1.2       1.8
Total                             121.6     136.9     158.1
Total Liabilities and net worth        279.0     323.4     408.8
Source: Department of Rural Banks






IL 'X 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND IPLMLAL ChEDIT PF.OJECT         a     2
RURAL BANKS
Consolidated Profit and Loss Accounts, 1965-67
(Pesos M.)
1965      1966      1967
Income
Interest
Agricultural loans                     21.7      24.2      29.1
Industrial loans                       o.6        0.6       0.8
Commercial loans                        1.6       1.7       1.8
Commodity loans                          -         -         -
Other loans & advances                  0.1       0.2       0.4
Commissions                             0.1       0.5       1.2
Other earnings                          1.2       1.8       2.5
Total Income                             25.3      29.0      35.8
Expenditures
Salaries                                  6.4       7.6       8.6
Travel expenses:
(Directors)                             0.2       0.2       0.2
(Offices employees)                     0.2       0.3       0.3
Advertising                               0.1       0.1       0.2
Stationery, supplies                      0.4       0.4       0.5
Postage, telegraph, etc.                  0.1       0.1       0.1
Light, water                              0.1       0.1       0.1
Rent                                      0.3       0.3       0.3
Depreciation                              1.1       1.3       1.4
Organization expense                      0.1       0.1       0.2
Employees welfare expense                  -         -         -
Other operating expense                   3.5       4.2       5.2
Subtotal                            12.5      14.7      17.1
Interest on deposits                      2.6       4.3       5.3
Interest on borrowed money                1.1       1.2       1.9
Total Expenditures                       16.2      20.2      24.3
Net Income                                9.1       8.8      11.5
Total Expenditures and Net Income        25.3      29.0      35.8
Source: Department of Rural Banks






ANNEX 3
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
Costs and Returns of Lending Operations, 1965-67
(Pesos Million)
1965       1966       1967
Average loan portfolio                       213.4       236.8      299.4
Income
Interest                                      24.O        26.7       32.1
Other Income                                   1.3         2.2        3.7
Total Income                              25.3       28.9        35.8
Percentage of Average Loan Portfolio           11.9%      12.2%      11.9
Expenditures
Interest on Ileposits & Forrowed Funds         3.7        5.5         7.2
Percentage of Average Loan Portfolio           1.7%        2.3%       2.4a
Administration and Miscellaneous               12.5       14.8       17.'
Percentage of Average Loan Portfolio           5.9%        6b20       5.7%
Total Expenditures                        16.2       20.2        24.3
Percentage of Average Loan Portfolio            7.6%       8.5%       8.11,0
Net Income                                      9.1        8.8       11.5
Percentage of Average Loan Portfolio            4.3%       3.7%       3.3%
Source: Department of Rural Banks.






ANNEX 3
PHILIPPIIES
SEaOO1 RT     W      PROJECT
RMUL BAN
Loans Mm By Categories, 1965-67
Catgoz                  b    1965                     16                       1967
11ibar  Aount     Ihr          Amount      Nubor        Amunt
rw      J (N soaLI)      Tr=       (PeosM.)       TMT       (Pesosa')
AORICULTUL LOANS
1. Short Term
Crop Production             226.9       156.3        240.5       183.0        260.6      220.9
Livestock                    44.6        28.8         43.0        29.3         52.6       44.9
Poultry                      16.1        13.5         15.14      15.5           8.6        9.6
Fish                         10.6        12.4         12.7        16.5         14.7       21.3
Others                        6.5       _47            4. 0         2         _,3          7.1
Slabtotal                 3014.7     215.7        315.6       247.5        342.8      303.7
AGLFV/
Production                              -            -          -            20.5       10.4
Marle ting/Coodity          '                                                 0.6        o
Subtotal                   -           -            -                       21.1       11.2
ADCR/                         -           -            -                        0.2        0.1
2. Ibdium and Long Term
Ordinary                                                                        0.2        1.4
AGLF
Acqaisition of Far0
M?chinery & Implanant      -                 -            -     _            0.9        4.9
Irrigation Sy-tem                                                             0.1        0.4
Subtotal                    -          *                       _             1.0        5.3
CB/IBRD
Acquisition of Farm
Machiary & Iuplenta        -           -            -           -            1.3       11.9
Develop_nt of Small
Private Irrigation Syte                -                       -             0,2        1.0
Subtotal                    _          _            _                        1.5       12.9
ADCR
Acquisition of Farm
Machinary & Implemnts      -           -            -          -             - 3/       0.1
Developont of Smll 
Private Irrigation System  -           *            -          _                        0.1
Subtotal                    -          .            .           ..           0.1        0.2
Total Agricultural Loans        30k4.7      215.7        315.6      247.5        366.9       334.9
CO)MERCIAL LOANS                 31.0        34.5         28.3       36.6         28.1        40.7
IMDUSTRILL LOANS                  8.2         9.7          7.9       10.3          8.2        12.0
OTHER LOANS                     J-2.         1.1           3.7        1.1          4.5         1.6
Subtotal                  43.1        45.3         39.9       48.0          40.8       54.3
GRAND TOTAL                     347.8       261.0        355.5      295.5        407.7       389.2
1/ Agricultorel Ouarantee and Loan Fund.
2/ Agriltural Develoupnt Couucil for Risal.
3/ Less than 100.                        i
Source: Departiment of Rural Banks - Central Bank.






hAni\E 3
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
Loans made by Size and Terms
1965               1966               1967
Noe     Amount     No.     Amount     No.     Amoi:Xlt
(Pesos  )          (Pesos  )           (Pes 
Loan Size
Up to 100          35,107     3.0      32,774    2.8      35,603    2.3
101 to 200         75,991    13.6      70,876   12.7      73,644   '3-0
201 to 500        114,552    44.1    113,982    43.5     125,767   14?.,'
501 to 1,000       56,547    47.5     61,963    51.4      70,961   5&.',
1,001 to 2,000     52,437    93.5      57,725  100.9      73,251  127.,)
2,001 to 5,000     10,739    37.2     14,445    49.4      21,944   73.9
Over 5,000          2,444    22.2      3,766    3b.9       6,568   65.2
Total          347,817   261.1     355,531  295.6     407,738   389.2-
Toan Terms
Within 120 days     48,455   51.7      45,992   55.1      49,813   67.3
Within 180 days    24,982    21.2      29,387   28.0      46,803    43,L
Over 6 months     274,380   188.2     280,152  212.4     311,122  278.8
Total          347,817   261.1     355,531  295.5     407,738   389.2
',ource: Department of Rural Banks






ANNEX 3
Table 6
P H I L I P P I N E S
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio of Rural Banks (December-31)
(Pesos million)
1965          1966           1967
Agricultural loans                     167.4         198.5          259.4
Commercial loans                        10.8          11.9          13.5
Industrial loans                         3.8           5.0            5.5
Commodity loans                           -            0.1             -2
Other loans and advances                 o.6           1.2            2.7
Past due items                          36.6          41.7          49.6
Loans in litigation                      5.4           6.7            7.2
Total loan portfolio                   224.6         265.1         337.9
Reserve for bad and doubtful
accounts                              2.9           4.0           4.9
Net loan portfolio                     221.7         261.1         333.0
Total past due items                    30.6          41.6          49.6
Percentage of total portfolio of
Past-due items                       16.3%         15.7%         14.7%
Past-due items and loans
under litigation                  18.7%         18.2%         16.8%
I/ Less than AC0O,000
Source: Department of Rural Banks






ANtNEX 3
Tabl e 7
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
RURAL BANKS
Loans made - Classified as to Security
1965               i966              1967
No .    Amount     No .   Amount     No .    Amount
(Pesos M)          (Peso-s M)        (Pesos 14)
Real Estate Mortgage    207,933  192.2    227,847   228.1    251,241   297.24
Chattel ilortgage:
- Growing crops      21,228    10.7     19,519    12.2     41,772   26.8
- Farm animals       36,196     7.1     34,4418    6.4     40,285     7.5
- Farm equipment        373     0.8        241     0.3      1,344    24.1
- Other guaxaraties  41,372    29.3     35,175    26.2     28,293   23.5
Bank Deposits             2,792    1.7      2,798     1.7      3,386     3.1
Pledge of stored crops   1,430     1.9      1,232     2.0      2,063    3.4
Unsecured                36,2493  17.24    324,271   18.6     39,3514   23.4
Total              347,817  261.1    355,531   295.5    407,738   389.2
Source: Department of Rural Banks






ANNEX 3
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Resources, Loans, Deposits, Borrowings,
Capital Accounts, and Yearly Grouth
The Rural Banking System, 1953 - 1967
(Pesos Million)
Year                    Loans Out-              Borrow-    Capital!/  No.- .
December 31   Resources-/    standing    Deposits     ings     Accounts    Bansi
1953          2.4          2.0                    C).2       2.1        1.J
1954          4.4          3.8          0.3        0.3       3.6
1955          7.9          6.5          0.7        (.9       5.8
1956         18.4         15.4          2.2       3.0      11.6         W
1967         34.7         28.2          6.7       6.4      19.5        ICt
195B         49.6         40.8         11.2       10.9      24.7
1959         60.3         48.2         18.1        9.7      29.6       13"
1960         75.2         58.5         24.7       1:L.1     35.6       161u
1961        105.3         82.4         33.8      18.5       47.4       l S_
1962        140.4        109.9          41.3      29.5      63.6       221.!
1963        185.5        145.6         55.0      42.4       80.0       2!o
1964        245.8        201.5         64.7      68.7      102.0      283
1965        279.0        221.7         78.7      68.1      121.6       309)
1966        323.4        261.1        100.8       70.3     136.8       33.t
1967        408.8        333.0        140.2       80.3     158.1       367
Jj/ Cash, loans, government securities and miscellaneous assets
2/ Paid-up common and preferred stock, surplus, undivided profits and
reserves
..rirce:  Department of Pural Banks






ANNEX 3
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of First Rural Credit Project (Loan 432-PH)
(July 31, 196b)
Lj. Participating Rural Banks
Authorized to participate                                         177
Actually participated.                                            1'9
By Region:
Luzon                                                          101
Visayas                                                         22
Mindanao
Loans made by Category - Bank funds
Number    Amount     Perce(t.
(Pesos M)
Tractors and Tillers                       1,901     17.0         8,
Farm Implements                                38     0.2          I.
Swine, Poultry and Fish Enterprises          191      1.3          t
Irrigation Systems                           268      0.9          '
Total                                    2,398    19.4        100
Loans mad.e by Participation - Total Funds
Source    Amount     Percen'
(Pesos M)
Bank           19.4 5h'
CB/AGLF         8.6         25
Rural Banks     1.8          5
Farmers         5.         141
Others          0.3          1
Total                                             35.1        L0*o






ANNEX 3
Table i cont'd
8    Loans made by Region
Amount
Number of    (Bank Funds)
Rural Banks     (Pesos M)    Percent
Luzon                               101            12.9           67
Visayas                              22             3.5           13
Mindanao                              16            3.0           lr_
Total                               139           19.4           1OC
5.   Loans made by Maturity
Amount
(Bank Funds)
Years   Number     (Pesos M)    Percent
3         72        0.2          1
4      1,051        4.o         21
5        369        2.1         11
7        855       12.6         65
10         42        o.4          2
n.a.         9        0.1          -
Total                                  2,398       19.4         100
c)   Amount of Loan (432-PH) disbursed
October 31, 1968          $4,245,000






AN.NEX 4
P H I L I P P I N E S
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Central Bank
A.   Organization
1.        The Central Bank is a government fiscal institution governed by
a Monetary Board.   The Board is composed of the Secretary of Finance
(Chairman), the Governor, Central Bank, the President, Philippine National
Bank, the Chairman, Board of Governors of the Development Bank of the
Philippines and three members at large representing -the commercial, indas-
trial and agricultural sectors.   Its administrative functions are
carried-out by the Governor, Deputy Governor and department officers.
B.   Responsibilities and Objectives
2.        It is the responsibility of the Central Bank to administer the
raonetary and banking system of the Philippines.   Its objectives are to:
i.   To maintain monetary stability;
ii.   To preserve the international value of the peso
and the convertibility of the peso into other
freely convertible currencies; and
iii.   To promote a rising level of production, employ-
ment and real income in the Philippines.
Toward fulfillment of these objectives the Central Bank plays a decisive
and effective role in the country's fiscal and monetary policies.
C.   Financial Condition
3.        The Bank's financial condition is shown in its annual balance
sheets for 1965-67 in Table 1 following.   Its financial operations for
the years 1966 and 1967 are shown in Table 2 following.   With respect to
the marked decrease of net operating income in 1967 compared with 1966
the following comments are taken from the Bankts annual report for 1967:
"In the course of its normal banking operations, the Central Bank realized
a net income of P05 million in 1967 compared to the /16 million net
profit of last year.   The drop in net income was due mainly to the sub-
stantial increase of Y16.2 million in interest payments consequent to thev
expansion of the Bank's foreign obligations by more than 100 per cent






LNIT:E7 4
Page 2
luring the year.   However, with non-operating profits of 14.2 million,
the total net income of t15 million was only 1l million less than that
of 1966.
"Gross income expanded by P7 million in 1967.   This was derived princi-
pally from its credit portfolio which contributed an additional g15 millicn
through loans and advances and investments in domestic securities.
However, with a decrease in time deposits abroad, income from foreign
investments dropped by /7 million.
"tOn the disbursement side, total expenses went up by P22 million mainly
on account of the 016.2 million increase in interest payments on larger
external obligations of the Central Bank.   This item represented 76 per
cent of the over-all increase in expenses during the year".






ANNEX L
Table J
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Comparative Statement of Condition of the Central Bank
December 31, 1965 - 1967
(Pesos million)
1965     1966     1967
ASSETS
International Reserves                            735      648       701
Due from U.S. Banks, Special Deposit Acct.         94        47        4
Domestic Securities                               878    1,118     1,388
Loans and Advances                               1,180    1,297    1,889
Acct. to secure coinage                             49       49       39
Bank Premises, Furniture and Equipment             37        38       39
Other Assets                                      124      176       205
Total                                        3,097     3,373    4,265
LIABILITIES
Currency                                        1, 611   1,706     1,970
Demand Deposits                                   188       350      6LjO
International Monetary Fund                         54        4      112
IBRD                                                24       24       24
Asian Development Bandk Acct. B                    --       --         1
Notes and Loans Payable - Foreign                  429      501      921
Revaluation of International Reserves              527      516      269
Other Liabilities                                   34       30       34
Total                                          2,867    3,131    3,971
INET WORTH
Capital                                            10        10       10
Surplus                                            195      202      266
Reserve for Currency Insurance                       2        2        2
Reserve for Refund of Margin Fee                     1        5        1
Undivided Profits                                   22       23       15
Total                                            230      242      2914
TOTAL LIABILITIES ANiD NET WORTH                    3,097    3,373    4,265
Source:  Central Bank of the Philippines, 1965-67, Armual Reports






ANNE.. 4
T'able 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank - Comparative Profit and Loss Statemernt - 1966 and 1967
(Pesos million)
1966     1967
INCOME
Foreign Exchange Transactions                        2        4
Foreign Investments                                 25       18
Domestic Loans and Advances                         32        38
Domestic Investments                                28        37
Miscellaneous                                         7        4
Total                                            94      101
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses                                   38       43
Non-Operating Expenditures                            3        2
Capital Expenditures                                 1         1
Miscellaneous Expenses                                4        6
Interest & Commitment Expenses                       31      48
Total                                            77      100
Net Income after Expenses                            17        1
Plus Non-Operating Income realized in the
sale of salvaged 1-peso silver coins           -        14
Total Net Income                                       17        15
Note: Data for 1965 Statement not given since they are aggregated in
difl'erent terms
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines, 1967 Annual Report






ANNEX 4
FARM PROJECT DEVELOPflNI PLAN
Rural Bank                    _                      Application No.
Applicant                                        Address
Land Farmed (This Flan):Owner         ha. Less Holder          ha. Share-Tenant       ha.
Terms of Tenancy: Written Contract (Too-Noy    No. ha. _   _     Expiration
(ea-No)
Terms
Oral Agr't.             No. ha.          Expiration
(Tea-No)
T~erms
Cther land Farmed: Owner         ha. Leaasholder           ha   Share-tenant          ha.
Kind(s) of Farming Enterprises Proposed Under Thia Plan
Ricet First crop _     ha. Second crop        ha. Vegetables        ha.
Corn/sorghum: First crop       ha. SecarA crop        ha.
Sugarcane:       ha. Coconuts:        ha. Other:        ha.
Poultry:  Avg. annual numbw  of laying hens         Broilers
Swine: Avg. annual number of breeding sown        Weanlings
Fisheries: Freshwater ponds       ha. Brackish water ponds        ha.
Other (Custom services, etc.)
Discuss significant new farming practioes over old practices   _
suammary of Farm and Family Income
After Full
Befcre Plan    Developum3t of Plan
Total Farm Income (This Plan)              .              .
Leos Cash Farm Expenae
Net Operating Farm Income
Other Income:
Other Farm Land Operated (Net)          ...........    ..............
Labor on Other Farna (Cash or Share)    ...........    ..............
Non-farm Labor or Activities            ...........    ..............
Contribution (Family Membera, etc.)
Total Other Income
Total Farm and Family Income               ...........    ..............
Less Family Living Expenses                ...........    ..............
Net Amount Available for Debt Service
Int. and Amortization on Proposed Loan    IXX          ..............
Other Debt Service                      ...........    ..............
Total Debt Service Requ'ts.
Net Farm-Family Cash Income             _    _         _






JASH aXPSNSES                                                 7INA1tA;L PRC-O2CfJN OF FAiL' DGVE.LOPHzif PLAN
;arm
.  zeforej After Full' Actual   !      -B                                                       Y  A -S
Item                 Plan-i  Devlpt.      (Year 1'               Item                   DeviDo.   1                         o2  3  1  1  5   9  1)
P     _ P1 
Seed                                                       Sales-livestVzk, crops
Fertilizer                                                 bp rating costs
Spray materials                                            In-o:re before debt service
Fuel, Oil, Lb'ts.                                           Interest Day .s. on loan-{     xxx
rmransport                                                 Principal pay'ts. on loan       xo'
i,cn. hire                                                Total debt service               X
Hired labor                                                Balance after debt service
ivestock purch.                                           Farner 's contribution        I   s
Feed                                                        Farmer's rit cash positinI
Vet. serv. & ned.                                           Annual net di ffersnces -      x
Repairs & dep.:                                             luruiati'e                     xx
Mach. & equip.                                            Increase in livestock value    xx2
Bldgs. & imprvts.                                         1/ As c-inpared with farmer's net cash position before development.
Taxes - property                                           7/   In addition to livestock value before development of P
Irrigation fees
Interest (short-term)                                                                             INVE:SrMENT PROGRAM
Insurance
Rent (cash)                                                          1                              To Be Financed By  1i
Aiscellaneous                                            |           |        | Lotal            Farrer's Contribution-    T       Loan Disbursen#rt Schedule
Amount   Invest- Mtls         Equity in Short         Rural
Total                          P                            Investment     or     ment    and          Pledged   f rerm       Banrk       Year           Year
-Items         Size    Cost   Labor  Cash  Security |redit1LotaljLoa     | Purpose  Amt.  Purpose  Amt.
Fanily Livirg                           ,                I           rI                I     II                       T     r     T1              11
Before  After Full Actual
Item               | Plan     Devlpt.     (Year 19
'ood ir              I                                                                   I     I     III                      I     Ii I                     I    I
Clothrg                                                      _   _   _I_                                                                                 _
|Heal th
Household oper.                                             Total      |   xX |          P                                                             _|_PIFF
House repairs                                               1"  Farner's contribution amoun7s to      4 of total investment of P
Churcih & rec.
Personal ins.                                               A loan of P                 for a term nf      years including grace period of       years is
Personal taxes                                              reco-onended subJect to following requirements: (Specifications for buildirngs, equipment and other          -3
V4iscellaneous                        _permane                          i_prvements, e.g. fences. water facilities.) .......................................
s      |       r            |            N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................... :.............. ................. ............. ..............................  
irotal                                                      | Pl .................I..   ....... .......   .................   ..   , .......  ...............................  W  L:7
Supervised Jredit Technician            Date                  o
:-






PRiJSEr PR)DIWTION mID 1TiLIZ?rloN
Before IDvelo3a .nt Plan-Year(s) 19           After Full Develo  nt of Plan-Year 19         Actual-year 19
milas                 Hectares  Total     per's.  o     Lor              t       otal         s.rd
Trif.5 w  Yield   Slaze   Use     v.     n ~  irFIigDry Yield     Share    Use  .V 72ue        aied1       a. no
vlo,|",VT~31 7V1                                                                                          -T C
First Cl            |          |       [ 
Cor-n
So I&iU
Beans
Sgarcane
Vegetables
Fruit /1u_t_
Rice
cam
Beans
3tagarCame
Vegetablesa
Fruit /mate
Smb-tatal                        mC       I       3M   ix   PF                    3=        x      mx   mK f.'        3m      J=
Livestock & Fijrias    Nuer      Total   Operes. HJm     For Sale      Ihber     Total   Oper's. Hme     For SLo      !otal
LAvgInv.)  Pxodec. time     Use         Val ue  (Avg.Inv.) Procic. Share     Use  a      a    PIc.-
r-eedirg sows
Feeder pigs
Boars
Poultiz
LVing bansI
Fggs-dozen6
Broilers
Fiskhris
F7esh iiater         ha.
BzAkiukS water       ha.
Fcxe show boats
Sub-taotal                                 xx Tu c  sXc f.x                                                   . xx  =  -- X=  xxx   F
Net Income from
-Custom Serrices      mt     n   X        XXX     xxx   m0                              3x         x     xxx         P |      x|x
Grand Total                                                                                                                        i
Cash Inc no           xx       XI       xxx     xxx    m                                XXix  1- x    xxx                    x x
rllxx~~~~~~~~0






ANNEX 5
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Phasing of Investment Costs and Foreign Exchange Component
(Pesos Million)
-Foreign Exch  ge
Project Year                  Component!;
(:ategory                       i      2      3    Total      Per Cent US$ Million
E'arm DeveloPment
{Machinery and Facilities)    22.9   27.2   27.2    77.3         60          11.9
Livestock Development
(Poultry and Swine)            3.0    3.1    3.1     9.8         15           0.3
Fisheries Development
(Fishponds and Boats)          3.0    3.4    3.4     9.8         10           0.2
Technical Services
(Service Vehicles)             0.6     -      -      o.6        100          0.1
Total                         29.5   34.0   34.0    97.5         50          12.5
1/  Of the retail sales price, CIF cost for agricultural machinery is 60%, import
duty and other fees are 10-15%, and dealers' mark-up 25-30%. Thus, the foreign
exchange component for agricultural machinery investments would be 60% of project
investment cost. The foreign exchange element for livestock development would be
principally for galvanized aluminum roofing, watering facilities (pumps, troughs),
and heating equipment (brooders). An estimate of 15% for the foreign exchange
component has been used. The foreign exchange element for fisheries development
would be principally for imported diesel engines for fishing boats. An estimate
of 10% has been used.






PHILIPPINRS
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Central Bank - Projacted Statement of Receipts and Disbursements
(Pesos million)
P r o j    e c t   Y e a r s
Category                    1        2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10     11       12      13      lb
Cash Inflow
From Bank Loan                           14.61"   17.1    17.1      -       -        -       -       -       -       -      -        -       -
Central Bank Contribution          2/     8.7     10.2    10.2      -       -        -       -       -       -       -      -        _       _       _
Principal Payments from Rural BankQ-       -       3.8     8.3    12.8    12.8    12.9     13.1     9.2     4.6      -      -        _       _       _
Interest Payments from Rural Bank )/       -       1.6     3.3     4.6     3.7     2.8     1.9      1.0     0.3      -      -        -       -       -
From Surplus Fund (revolving)      21      -        -      3.0     8.9    14.6      8.9    14.8    15.7    14.1    11.9    9.2      9.8     8.6     8.6
Principal Payments from Rural BankS7       -         -      -      o.5     1.9      4.4     5.8     8.3    10.9    12.9   13.3     12.4    12.6    11.6
Interest Payments from Rural Banks-        -         -      -      0.2     0.8     1.7      2.0     2.7     3.2     3.4    3.4      3.1     2.9     2.6
Total                                    23.3     32.7    41.9    27.0    33.8    30.7    37.6     36.9    33.1    28.2   25.9     25.3    24.1    22.8
Cash Outflow
Loans to Rural Banks                     22.9      27.3   27.3      -        -       -       -       -       -       -      -        -       -       -
Subsequent Loan to Rural Banks             -        -      3.0     8.9    14.6     8.9    14.8     15.7    14.1    11.9    9.2      9.8     8.6     8.6
Interest on Bank Loan (6.5%)                -       1.0    2.1     3.2     3.2       -       -       -       -       -      -        -       -       -
Annuity on Bank Loan                       -         -      -       -      6.7      6.7     6.7     6.7     6.7     6.7    6.7      6.7     6.7     6.7
Commitment Fee (3/4%)                     0.3      0.2     0.1      -        -       -       -       -       -       -      -        -       -       -
Technical Servicesa/                      0.8      0.5     0.5     0.3     0.4     0.3     0.4      0.4     o.4     o.4    0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2
Total                                    24.o      29.0   33.0    12.4     24.9    15.9    21.9    22.8    21.2    19.0   16.1     16.7    15.5    15.5
Surplus Account                           (0-7)     3.7    8.9     li.6    8.9     14.8    15.7    14.16/ W11.9     9.2    9.8      8.6     8.6      7.3
Total                                    23.3     32.7    41.9    27.0    33.8     30.7    37.6    36.9    33.1    28.2   25.9     25.3    24.1    22.8
1/  Includes ?600,000 (US $150,000) to purchase 50 service vehicles for pmject technicians. This amount is included in outflow for technical services.
/   Based on average amortization over a period of six years.
7/ Blended rate of 7%.
I! Estimate
57  Deficit in Year 1 of Y0.7 million would be recovered in Year 2, and net surplus of #3 million and surplus of 18.9 million in Year 3 would be
used by the Central Bank   as part of its contribution during the disbursement period of the Second Rural Credit Project.  Thereafter subsequent            8
surplus funds would be relent to participating rural banks.
4   To be reduced by F2.0 million and 72.6 miJlion respectively to service Loan PH-432 in years 1976 and 1977 (Annex 6, Table 3).






SECOND RUHAL CREDIT PROJ:CT
Rural Banks - Projected Statements of Receipts and Disbursements
(Pesos million)
P r o j e c t Y e a r s
Category                     1        2       3       4       5       6       7        8       9      10      11      12      13       14
Cash Inflow
Contribution of Rural Banks               2.8      3.4     3.4      -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Loan from Central Bank                   22.9     27.3    27.3       -                   -       -           -                            -       -
3ubsequent Loan from Central B e          -        -      3.0     8.9    14.6      8.9    14.8    15.7    14.lW   11.9W     9.2     9.8     8.6     8.6
Principal Payment on Farm Loans-           -       4.3     9.4    15.0     16.5    18.9    20.4    18.5    16.0    12.9    13.2     12.h    12.6    11.6
Interest Payment on Farm Loans (12%)       -       3.1     6.3     9.2      8.4     8.2     7.0     6.3     6.o     5.8      5.7     5.2     4.9     4.4
Total                                    25.7     38.1    49.4    33.1    39.5     36.0    42.2.-  40.5    36.1    30.6     28.1    27.4    26.1    24.6
Cash Outflow
Loans to Farmers                         25.7     30.7    30.7      -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
Subsequent Loans to Farers                 -        -      3.0     8.9    14.6      8.9    14.8    15.7    14.1    11.9      9.2     9.8     8.6     8.6
Interest on Central Bank Loans (7%)        -       1.6     3.3     4.8     4.5     I45      3.9     3.7     3.5     3.14     3.4     3.1     2.9     2.6
Amortization of Csntral Bank Loans         -       3.8     8.3    13.3     14.7    17.3    18.9    17.5    15.5    12.9     13.3    12.4    12.6    11.6
Administration Cost2I                     0.2      0.4     0.5     0.3     0.4      0.4     0.3     0.3     0.2     0.2      0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1
Sub-Total                                25.9     36.5    45.8    27.3     34.2    31.1    37.9    37.2    33.3    28.4     26.0    25.4    24.2    22.9
Cash Balance                             (0.2)     1.6     3.6     5.8      5.3     4.9     4.3     3.3     2.8      2.2     2.1     2.0     1.9     1.7
Total                                    25.7     38.1    49.4    33.1    39.5     36.0    42.2    40.5    36.1    30.6     28.1    27.4    26.1    24.6
Recovery of Rural B nks' Contribution
from Cash Balance 3                                              9.6          -      -             -       -            -       -           -       -
Net Cash Balance                           -    -           -      1.2      5.3     4.9     4.3     3.3     2.8      2.2     2.1     2.0     1.9     1.7
Interest on Cash Balance (12%)             -        -       -      0.1     o.6      o.6     0.5     0.4     0.h     0.3      0.3     0.2     0.2     0.2
Total                                           -           -      1.3      5.9     5.5     4.8     3.7     3.2      2.5     2.4     2.2     2.1     i.9
Cumulative Cash Balance
including Interest                       _    -           -      1.3      7.2    12.7    17.5    21.2    24.14    26.9    29.3    31.5    33.6    35.5
1/  Based on average amortization over a period of sijc years.                                                                                                      a
2/  Estimate
'/ Rural Banks would recover their contribution (Y9.6 million) and Year 1 deficit (Y0.2 million) in Years 2 to 4.      Thereafter, they would have an               CD
annual net cash balance that could be used for re-lending.
i   See footnote ./ Annex 6, Table 1, regarding reduction in re-lending.






PHIThPPInU
-Y     BBAL CRIT PBDJLCT
Contral Bank - Projected t.t antJ of dcipta and Diabures   te of Principal for Loan PR - 432
~~ (Fe Nos Mllion)
Tears for Loan PH-432                                      1966     1967      1968     1969      1970     1971      1972     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977
Tears for Propoed 2nd Bnk Loan                                -        -         -        1         2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9
Olah Inflow
Loan P-it32                                              1.6      4.7      13.2        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -
yapy nt frm Rural Uanke_/                                         0.3       1.0      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.2      3.0       2.1        -         -        -
RepaWent of ContrAibution to ftopoaed
2nd Bank L-,"2                                                   -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -       2.0       2.6
Total                                                 1.6      5.0      14.2      3.3       3.3      3.3       3.2      3.0       2.1        -       2.0      2.6
Loane to Baral BKmkB                                     1.6      4.7      13.2        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -
Hepqaen*t lon PH-432                                       -        -       0.8      1.7       1.8      1.8       1.9       2.0      2.2       2.3      2.4       2.6
Contributlon to Propoamd 2nd Bank Loan2/                   -        -         -      1.6       1.5      1.5         -        -         -        -         -        -
Sub-Total                                          1.6       4.7     14.0       3.3      3.3       3.3      1.9       2.0      2.2       2.3      2.4       2.6
CdAsh Balane                                               -      0.3       0.2        -         -        -       1.3      1.0      (0.1)     (2.3)    (O.4)       -
Total                                                 1.6      5.0      14.2       3.3      3.3       3.3      3.2      3.0       2.1         -      2.0       2.6
Cumulative Cash Balanne                                    -      0.3       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       1.8      2.8       2.7      0.4         -        -
a Bed on average aeorti-aation over a period of six years.
Represents amonts conmtribuited by the Central Bank to Second Rural Credit ?roject aand sbich would be required in-.years 1976 andl 1977 to service
Loan PH-432.
~/Repr,eents aurplus fonda available for Central Bank contribation to Second Rural Credit Projec~t it years 1, 2 and 3.
0.






ANNEX 7
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
SEW ND RURIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 1 - i Ha Irrigated Rice Farm, 2-Wheel Tiller
Cash Flcow Pro1ecticn
(Peeoe l)
Before                    P r o j e c t Y e a r
Category                        D7lpt.      1          2         3         4         5          6
Gross Production (mt)!,                 25.0      31.2      31.2      31.2      31.2      31.2      31.2
CaBh Inflow 
Cash s Income2//                      8.9      11.1      Il.l      11.1      U1.1      11.1       11.1
Income from Custom Work3/            --         2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4
Loan4J                                --        6.3
Total                                 8.9      19.8      13.5      13.5      13.5      13.5       13.5
Cash Outflow
Investment Costl/                    --         7.0       --        --        -         --        --
Operating Ctsts             6/
- Tractor-op and zmintensnce-4       1.1        1.6       1.6       i.6       1.6       1.6       i.6
- Planting, harvesting               2.0        2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5
- Seeds, fert. and chem. spraVs      2.3        2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9
- Miscellaneous                      o.6        0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7
Fixed Cost97/                         0.7      -7        0.7       0.7       -7        0.7       0.7
Total                                6.7       15.4       8.4       8.4       8.4       8.4       8.4
Cash Balance                            2.2        4.4       5.1       5.1       5.1       5.1       5.1
Loan Amortization                                  1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.1        --
Interest Payrnrt @ 12%                             0.7       o.6       0.4       0.3       0.1
Balance After Debt 9ervice               2.2       2.4      3.2        3.4       3.5       3.7       5.1
1/  5 tons of rice paddy per ha before development (double cropping); 6.25 tons/ha after development
(lst crop 3t, 2nd crop 2t, 3rd crop 1/2 of average of 1st and 2nd crops).   (The increase after
development comes from the timesaving   due to shifting from draft animals to tillers, permitting
three crops over a two-year period, all other inputs being kept at the same level.)
2/  ? 355/ton farmgate price.
3/ 1 60 charge per ha, 40 ha per year.
4/  On the basis of 90% of project investment cost.
5/ Purchase of tractor and related equipment.
6/  Includes before development:  labor wages and maintenance of draft animals;
after development:   driver's wages, fuel and oil, repairs, housing, insurance, taxes,
and the cost of maintaining the draft animals no longer needed for land preparation, but
still kept for transportation work on the farm.
7/ Includes depreciation on equipment (other than tractor) and buildings, land tax, and irrigation
charges.






ANNEX 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINESS
SBCONID MR  WF     PORaJBCT
Model 2 - 25 Ha Irrigated Rice Farm. 4-Wheel Tractor-45 HP
Cash F      ection
(Pesos '000)
Before                             P r o j   ec t Y e a r
Category                      Dvlpt.     1         2        3                 5         6        7         8
Gross Production (mt)]/              125      156       156      156      156       156      156      156       156
Cash Inulow
llrosa ncomeL                 1 44.4   55.4      55.4     55.4     55.4      55.4     55.4      55.4     55.4
Inco from Cuetom Wark/           --        6.o      6.0      6.0       6.o      6.o       6.o      6.o      6.0
-- __   21.6       -       -
Total.                            44.4     83.0     61.4      61.4     61.4     61.4      61.4     61.4     61.4
Cash Outflow
Ifnl-mt53ft CcetV/                --       24.0
Opwating Costs
- TrELctor-op and maintermnce'/   5.6       3.1      3.1      3.1       3.1      3.1       3.1      3.1      3.1
- PsLanting, harvesting          10.0      12.5     12.5     12.5      12.5     12.5     12.5      12.5     12.5
- Seeds, fert. and cham. sprays  11.6      14.5     114.5    14.5      14.5     14.5      14.5     14.5     14.5
- Miscelau                       2.7       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Fixed  ots/Ji 3-4                            4 3-4        3.4 3 4                3.4       3-4      3-4      3-4
Total                            33.3      60.5     36.5     36.5      36.5     36.5      36.5     36.5     36.5
Cash BaEan: e                       11.1      22.5     24.9     24.9      24.9     24.9     24.9      24.9     24.9
Loan Amortization                    --        3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.6      --
Interest Pav3t Q 012%                -        2.6       2.2      1.8      1.5       1.1      0.7      0.4       --
Balance After Debt Servioe          11.1     16.9      19.7     20.1     20.4      20.8     21.2      20.9     24.9
1/ 5 tone of rice padcly/ha before development (domble cropping)j 6.25 tonsAa after development - (lst crop 3t,
2nd crop 2t, 3rd crop 1/2 of average of 1st and 2nd crops). (The increase after development comes from the
timesaving due to shifting from draft animals to tractor, permitting three crops over a two-year period,
all other inputs being kept at the same level)
2/ y 355/ton farmgate price.
3/ j 80/ha, 75 ha per year.
4/ On the basis of 90% of project investment cost.
5/ Purchase of tractor and implements.
6/ Includes before developments labor wages and maintenanoe of draft animals1
after developments  driver's wages, fuel and oil, repairs, housing, insurance, taxes, and the
cost of maintaining the draft animals no longer needed for land preparation, but still kept for
transportation work on the farm.
7/ IncLudes depreciation on equipment (other than tractor) and buildings, land tax, and irrigation charges.






ANNEX 7
Table 7
PHILIPPDWN
SOOAl-J RlAL  t      PROJWT
lk,del 3 - Suprca F3antation. 25 Ha Dzy3and. M?chaniaation. 65 HP Tractor
Cash  E   Pr1ectic
(Peace ' 000 )
Bafz                                P r o je c t T e a r
_ _ateac                                Delpt.      1        2                   14                 6         7        a
Planter'.s  9b oaf Cs   Prodketimn (piu1s)V   1,125    1,350     1,275     1,350    1,275     1,350     1,275    1,350     1,275
(Picull - 63.25 kg)
Gh   inl
amens ),_ &/                                33.8      40.5     38.2      40.5     38.2      40.5      38.2      40.5     38.2
Lamem       C  toa  /                        -        6.4       6.4       6.4      6.4       6.4       6.4      6.4       6.4
--__      28.8      -
Total                                       33.8      75.7      44.6     46.9      44.6     46.9      44.6      46.9     44.6
CA Ou;flm
t C0o'                                       -        32.0
Operatlng C8td
- Tractar-p   4 Ud maiZt_ca                  2.5       3.7      3.7       3.7       3.7      3.7       3.7       3.7      3.7
- Fertiles ad pesticide                     6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3      6.3
-  Eautlag md repJantLng cot                 -         2.3      __        2.3       -        2.3       __        2.3      -
- CatmtLgtnd weedin                          2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5
- arweating                                  4.0       4.5      4.5       4.5       4.5      4.5      14.5       4.5      4-5
_ flafo<SeUusg                               1.5       1.7      1.7       1.7       1.7      1.7       1.7       1.7      1.7
Fimd   Ce/                                                                         _33.3  -3  -4  -   33  3.3    3.3      3.3
Total                                       20.1      56.3     22.0      24-3      22.0     24.3      22.0      24.3     22.0
GM&aIi B.laine                                 13.7      19.4     22.6      22.6      22.6     22.6      22.6      22.6     22.6
LIn   ortization (7 yrM.)                       --        4.1      4.1       4.1       4.1      4.1       4.1       4.2      __
inteet P      t * 12%                                     3.5      3.0       2.5       2.0      1.5       1.0       0.5      -
&A=     Af1a Doebt   8            _113         13.7      U.8      15.5      16.0      16.5     17.0      17.5      17.9     22.6
1/ Tield.s   75 piculA/a before devala ent; 90 pioala/hM after mechanisation with better land preparation, all other
inputs being kept at the same level. (Ratooning is practiced every other year with yield of 85 piculs/ha.)  Total
yield after development of 2,250 piculs. Planter's share equals 60%, while the remaining goes to the Sugar Central
to cover milling and tranaport costs.
2/ ' 30 picul.
3/ 1 80/ha; 80 ha per year.
4/ Basis of 90% of project cost
5/ 65 HP tractor and related implements.
6/ Includes before developments labor wages and maintenance of draft animals;
after development,  driver's wages, fuel and oil, repairs, housing, insurance, taxes, and the cost of
maintaining the draft animals no longer needed for land preparation, but still kept on the farm for transporta-
tion work.
7/ Includes depreciation on equipment (other than tractor) and building and land tax.






ANNEX 7
Table 4
PHILIPPINZ5
SECOND RURIL CREDIT PROJET
Model 1 - Paun Irrigation Develop3nt. 5 Ha Rice Farm (Not Mec) nized)
Cash Flow Projection
(PaiCa IO00)
Before                         P r a j e c t Y e a r
CateEnry                     Darlpt.     1         2        3         4        5         6        7
ross Prochxctioan(Mt)V               7.5      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0
Cash Iaflow
Ckoas fncem                      2.7       8.9      8.9       8.9      8.9       8.9       8.9      8.9
Loan6/                            --                  -
Total                             2.7      L3.34     8.9       8.9      8.9       8.9       8.9      8.9
Cash Outlfr
Investnnlt CostLW                 --        5.0      --        --       --        --        --
Operating Coats
- P_M_                                      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3
L Land preparation                o.6       1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2      1.2       1.2
- Flanting, barmating, storing    0.5       2.C      2.0       2.C      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0
- Seeds, fert., chem. sprays      0.5       2.3      2.3       2.3      2.3       2.3      2.3       2.3
- K{icelLUnqLa                   0.2       o.6      o.6       o.6     o0.6       o.6      o.6       o.6
Fived Cosotse                     0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3
Total                             2.1      11.7      6.7       6.7      6.7       6.7       6.7      6.7
Cash Balance                         o.6       1.7      2.2       2.2      2.2       2.2       2.2      2.2
Loan Amortization (5 Yrs.)           --        0.9      0.9       0.9      0.9       0.9      --        --
Interest Payient @ 12%               --        0.5      0.4       0.3      0.2       0.1      __     _   _
Balance After Debt Service           o.6       0.3      0.9       1.0      1.1       1.2      2.2       2.2
I/ 1.5 tons of paddy rioe/ha before development (one crop only)g 5 tons/ha after development (double cropping),
due to availability of water throughout the yearl aLL other inputs being kept at the same level.
2/ > 355/ton farmgate price.
3/ ]3asis of 90% of investment cost.
4/ Plurchase of pump and land development.
5/ Depreciation on buildings, land tax, and insurance.






PHILIPPINES
SSEOND RURAL CMIT PROJ3CT
Model 5 - Livestock Development, 3,000 Layer Hen Poultry Farm
MaPh Flow Proeaection
t Pesos ' 000)
P r o i e c t Y a a r
Category                       1           2          3    -                 5         _6          -7-1
Egg Production - dozen            22,500      45,000     45,00O      45,000     45,000      45,000      45,000
Cash Inflow
Sales of eggs!/                 27.0        54.0       54.0        54.0       54.0        54.0        54.0
- Salfs of CuVL  n HensV'        -           6.2        6.2         6.2        6.2         6.2         6.2
- 0the Incom"                    3.0         6.o        6.0         6.0        6.o         6.o         6.0
- Loan /                        21.6         -          _
Total                           51.6        66.2       66.2        66.2       66.2        66.2        66.2
Cash Outflow
Inves hnet Costi/               24.0         -          -           -          -           -           -
Operating Costs
- Baby Chicks                    -           3.8        3.8         3.8        3.8        3.8          3.8
- Fee-is                        30.0        40.0       40.0       40.C        40.0        40.0        40.0
- Labor                          3.0         5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0         5.0
- Brooding, med., vaccines       0.5         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0
- Miscellan ous                  0.3         0.5        0.5         0.5        0.5         0.5         0.5
Fixed Costs9/                   0.4         0.4                    0.4        0-4         L           0.4
Total                           58.2        50.7       50.7        50.7       50.7       50.7         50.7
Cash Balance                       (6.6)       15.5       15.5        15.5       15.5       15.5         15.5
Loan Amortization/                  -           5.4        5.4         5.4        5.4        -            -
Interest Payment Ca 12%             2.6         2.6        1.9         1.3        0.6        -            -
Cash Balance After Deblt Service   (9.2)       7.5         8.2         8.6        9.5       15.5         15.5
I   V 1.20/dozen.
2/ V 4/cull hen; 1550 hens annually would be culled.
, Feed sacks and chicken manure.
J   Basis of 90% of project investment cost.
5/ Includes egg-laying houses, battery brooders, fences, light and water facilities, and 3,000 baby chicks as
starting-up capital.
/ Taxes, insurance.
j/ One-year grace, 4-year amortization.






ANNEX 7
Table 6
PHILPPIMS
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 6 - Swine Farm. 20 Brood Sows
Gashl       Prootion
(Pess6100eo)
P r o   e ct   Y ea r
Category                    1           2           3           4           5           6          7-10
Gross Production (no)
- Hogs                              -          150         150         150         150         150         150
- Weanlings                        150         150         150         150         150         150         150
Cash Inflow
-      les of Hogal/  2/            -          27.0        27.0        27.0        27.0        27.0        27.0
- Sales of Wean4ngs-                9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0
- Other Income3!                    0.5         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
-Loaa4/                            22.5          _                                  - 
Total                              32.0        37.0        37.0        37.0        37.0        37.0        37.0
Cash Oattflow
Investment Costa5/                 25.0         -           -           -           -           -           -
Operating Costs
- Stock                             -           0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
- Foeds                            10.0        17.0        17.0        17.(        17.0        17.0        17.0
- Lsbor                             4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0         4.0
- Medicines, vaccines               0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
- Miscellanoust                     3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Fixed Costsa/                       0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
Total                              42.4        24.6        24.6        24.6        24.6        24.6        24.6
Cash Balance                         (10.4)       12.4        12.4        12.4        12.4        12.4        12.4
Loan Anortization7/                    -           5.6         5.6         5.6         5.7         -           -
Interest Payment @ 12%                 2.7         2.7         2.0         1.4         0.7         -           -
Cash Balance After Debt Service      (13.1)        4.1         4.8         5.4         6.o        12.4        12.4
1/ f' 180 each. 100 kg average weight.
2/ J 60 each; 22.5 kg average weight.
3/ Feed sacks.
4/ Basis of 90% of invetmnt costs.
5/ Includes buildings, facilities and purchase of 20 gilts and 1 boar.
6/ Taes, imeurance, etc.
7/ One-year grace period, 4-year amertization.






ANNEX 7
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 7 - Fisheries Devwlopment - Bracldsh and Freshwater Fishpond, 1 Ha
Cash Flow Projection
(Pesos)
P r     o ec t Y e a r
Category                   1           2i                                             6          7-10
Gross Production kg.                  500       1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
Cash Inflow
SalhoIrFishl                       800       1,600       1,6o0      1,600       1,600       1,600       1,600
Loarn     i                      2.700                     -          -           -           -           -
Total                            3,500       1,600       1,600      1,600       1,600       1,600       1,600
Cash 0hitflow
Investment Cost                  3,000         _          _           _           _           -           _
Operating Cos Is
- Fizngerlings -                    20          60         60          60          60          60          60
- Fertilizers and Chemicals         50         100        100         100         100         100         100
- Maintenance                      100         130        130         130         130         130         130
- Labor                            300         300        300         300         300         300         300
- Miscellaneous                     50          50         50          50          50          50          50
- TaLxes                            10          10         10          10          10          10          10
TotBLl                           3,530         650         650        650         650         650         650
Cash BaIance                          (30)        950         950         950        950         950         950
Loan Amrortization_/                  -           675         675        675         675         -           -
Intere;t Paynmnt @ 12,f               324         324        243         162          81         -           -
Cash Balance After Debt Service      (354)       ( 49)         32        113         194         950         950
1/ J1 1.6/kg.
2/ Basis of 90% of project cost.
3   2,000/ha in Year 1, 6,000/ha from Year 2 onwards @ T 10/thousand fingerlings.
4/ One-year grace period, 4-year amortization.






ANNEX 7
Table8
PHILIPPIIM
SKOND RURAL C   IT PflOJECT
Model 8 - Fi}eries Development. Fishing Boat!/
Cash Flow Projection
Pro je ct Year
Category                  1                      3          45                     6         7-10
Gross Production (mt)                45         45         45          45         45         45          _
Cash Inflow
sale of Fish2/                   27.0       27.0       27.0        27.0       27.0       27.0        27.0
Loana/                           -5--
Total                            42.3       27.0       27.0        27.0       27.0       27.0        27.0
Cash Outflow
Irvestment Cost                  17.0
Operating Cotst/7 13.1                      13.1       13.1        13.1       13.1       13.1        13.1
Crew Share                        7.0        7.0        7.0         7.0        7.0        7.0         7.0
Niscellaneous                     1.3        1.3        1.3         1.3        1.3        1.3         1.3
Total                            38.4       21.4       21.4        21.4       21.4       21.4        21.4
Cash Balance                         3.9        5.6        5.6        5.6         5.6        5.6         5.6
Loan Amortization5/                  -          3.8        3.8        3.8         3.9
Interest Payment @ 12%              1.8         1.8        1.4        0.9         0.5        -          -
Cash Balance After Debt Service      2.1        -          0.4        0.9         1.2        5.6        5.6
1/ Five-ton boat, 40 hp. diesel engline, 20 man crew.
2/ p 0.6 kg.
3/ Basis of 90% of project cost.
hi  Incluies oil, gasoline, food for fishermen aui miscellaneous.
5/ One-year grace period, 4-year amortization.






ANNEX 8
PNHIIPPINES
SOCOND) RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Ratas of RetumnPor Davelopment &iterprises
(P69s3s0OO)
Beconomic Life of the Investment Project
Years                                 1           2          3           14          5          6           7          8         )1
Mocal I.     H~a I;f9d Rice Farm
Increm ntal Net Sal.ff 1/4.6                                  14.6       14.6        14.6        14.6       14.6
IncremenLal Operatinig Expenseas                  1.7         1.7        1.7         1.7         1.7        1.7
Net Incremental Value of Production                2.9        2.9         2.9        2.9         2.9         2.9
Capital Investment                                (7.0 TO                  -          .9         2.
Net Capital Flow                                  (24.12 2.9229
Financial Rate of-Return - 65%
Mo0CAl 2 - 251 Na Irrigated Rice Farm
Increca ntal Net Salos                           17.0        17.0        17.0       17.0        17.0       17.0        17.0        17.0
Incremuntal Oparatiig Expe re as                -l------:     :          3.2         3.2:2        :2        3.2         3.2        3.2
Net Incremental Valise of Production                         113.8                              13.8       13.8i       13.8        13.8
Capital Investment                               2.0)          ---                                           --                      -
Net Capital Flow                                (1.2         138          3.8       13.         _13.       13.8        13.8        13.
Financial Rate of Reitumn - 100%
Mociel 3 - 25 Ha ~    euPlantation
Increnental Net Salea                            13.1        10.8        13.1       10.8        13.1       10.8        13.1       10.8
Incremental Operating Expensee                    14.2        1.9        14.2        1.         1.2         1.9        14.2        1.9
Net Incremental Valuea of Produc ti on            13.     8   .9          6.9        8.;9          9        8.89
Capital  Investim nt                                     __  _ _  __  _ _  __2_     _ _  __ _  _ __0_     _  _ __  _  _ _
Net Capital Flow                                TFI+T         8.9         8.;        ts.9        H.9        8.9          5   9    T
Financial Rate of Return - 33%
Modeal 14 - 5 aRice Yanm (not mechanized)
Incremental Net Salees                             6.2        6.2        6.2         6.2         6.2        6.2         6.2
Incremental Operating Expenses                     46        14.6        14.6       14.6        14.6         .6        14.6
Net IncremBntal Value of Production               Lb          1.6        1.6         1.6         1.6        1.6        I
Capital  Investment                             _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
H: 6)  :         1.6        Lb          16          1.          .
Net Capital Flow1.                                                                                                      16
Financial Rate of Return - 141%
Model 5 - .3.000 Laarers.hen Poultry Farm
Groas Income                                     30.0        66.2       66.2        66.2       66.2        66.2        66.2       66.2        66.2
Operating Expenses      2/31.                               5.          j50.7j      50.        50.7        50).7       50.7       50.7        50.7
Net Value of Produc ti onr1.)                                 55        156         1.          15.        15.5        15.5        15.5       15.5
Capi,tal  Invesatm ent                           __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __0_    _ _ _ _ _ _
Met Capital Flow                              15.;~~~ 15. 5          15.5        18.5       1-5. 5      15. 5      15. 5      _15. 
Financial Rate of Return -54
Modeal 6   20 Brood-sow  Swim Far-m
GrosstIncome                                      9.5        37.0        37.0       37.0        37.0       37.0        37.0        37.0       37.0
Operating Expenses                               1:7.4)      2 14.6     214.6      2k.6Z       214.6       214.6      214.6       214.6       214.6
Net. Value of Produc ti on                       (.)          214       1.           2.4        12.1       12.14       12.14      12.14       12.1
Capital  Investrm nt__                              _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Net Capital Flow                                     3         :        124         14          124         2.         124         2.
Financial Rate cof Resturn -35%
Model 7 - 1 Na Fishpond
Giross Income                                     0.8        1.6         1.6        1.6         1.6         1.6        1.6         1.6        1.6
Operating &xpemnee                                            9 .6       0.6        0. 6        0.6         0.6        0.6         0.6        0.6
Net Value of Production                           0.3         1.01       1.0         1.0         1.0         .0         1.0        1.0         1.0
Gapital  Investm ent                         _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Nat Capital Flow                                  27           .           .          .           .           0         10         10            0
Financial Rate af Re-turn -33%
Model 8 - FsigBa
Gross Income                                     27.0        27.0       27.0        27.0       27.0        27.0        27.0       27.0        27.0
Operating Expenses                                     21.14      21.1 4      21.1 4     21.1 4      21.1 4     21.1 4      21.1 4      21.14 2.4
Not Value of Prodxction                           5.8         5.6        5.b          .         57 5.6      5.6         5.6                    5.6
Capital  Investment                                                _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Net Capital Flow                                 R7            :           .          .           .           .          .           .           .
Financial Rate of Resturn - 48%
I/  Trhe teme 'lincremental"- is used to denote irncreasea in sales or expenoses over the pre-developsent values af these items (models 1 - 1)
2/ The net value cf production reflects groan incme less expenases beginoinzg with Project Year since no pre-development is assmed
to exist (Kodels 5 - 8)






ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
S3OND RURAL CREDIT PROJWCT
Economic Rate of Return
(Pesos Million)
Project Year
1      2      3       4      5      6      7      8      9      10
Net Incremental Income    (29.1) (20.8)  (5.4)  44.0   44.0   44.0    38.2   35.8    8.8    8.8
Less .Administration
Cost  Central  unk        0.8     0.5    0.5    0.3    0.4   03     0.4     0.4    0.4    0.4
Less Administration Cost
Rural Banks                0.2    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.3    0.4     0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2
Total              (30.1) (21.7)   (6.4)  43.2   43.3   43.3   37.5   35.1    8.1     8.2
Economic Rate of Return - 36%






IMPORTATION OF SELECTED FARM NACHINERY, BY TYPE, 1964 TO 1967
1965                       1966                     1967
Value                    Value                    Value
Quantity   (FOB Pesos)   Quantity   (FOB Pesos)   Quantity   (FOB Pesos)
No.         1,000        No.         1,000         No.        1,000
AgricuLtural Machinery & Appliances
for Preparing & Cultivating the Soil
Plowfs, cultivators & harrows          2,133      1,200        2,320        1,678       3,662        4,752
Plow, cultivator and harrow parts        -          617           -           788         -          1,498
Tractors, wheel type                     i69      4,833          602        4,778       1,9914      19,315
Tractors, crawler type                   410     19,846          291        8,837         325        9,411
Tractor parts and accessories            -       17,596          -         20,522         -         19,604
Cultivating machinery & equipment,      886         985        2,776        3,409       5,730        8,204
n.e.s 
Subtotal                              -       45,077           -         40,012        -         62,784
Agricultural Machinery & Appliances
for Harvesting, Threshing & Sorting
Rice threshers                            70         63          148          109         221          145
Rice hullers & cleaners                  26          56           20           17          56           46
Rice huller & cleaner parts                -         68            -           70           -           92
Mowers (excluding lawn mowers)            47         64          167          104         572          L47
Mower parts                                -         60            -           63           -           34
Agricultural combine                      6          17            1            2           4           50
Agricultural combine parts                 -          4            -           66           -            1
Other Machinery for Harvesting,
Threshi.ng & Sorting                       122         798         341          557         227          276
Sub-total                               -      1,130           _           988           -          791
GRAND lOTAL                                  -      46,207           -       41,000           _       63,575     1
Source:  Foreign Trade Statistics of the Philippines' Bureau of Census and Statistics, Manila.






PHILIPPINES: SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MONETARY BOARD
(GOVERNING BODY)
CENTRAL BANK
PROJECT            AD /INiS TRA TiOA
OTHER BANK DEPARTMENTS                                                                  DEPARTMENT OF RURAL BANKS
OFFICE OF
|THE DIRECTOR
|THE ASSOCIATE IRCO
ACCOUNTING           RESEARCH,                                                                       ORGANIZATION          GENERAL
EXAMINATION  SPECIAL                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPECIAL
OAN SVTISON          E   CXAILNAtON      AND OTHER          STATISTICS           STUDIES AND         INSTITUTE OF         AGRICULTURE             AND             SERVICES AND
ND SUEVISIONS       EXAMDIVISION      SPECIAL SERVICES        ANALYSIS          LTDEGA   SAFF       RURAL BANKING          DIVISION            PROMOTION         ADMINISTRATION
DIIVISION           DIVISION                                                                          DIVISION            DIVISION
RURAL BANKS
RURAL BANK BORROWERS
October 1968                                                                                                                                                                        IR)IIRD-41 19






REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
REGIONAL    DISTRIBUTION     OF   PARTICIPATING    RURAL   BANKS
,  ,.,  .,   APPRoXIMATE  LOCAIIr T J F
'I      ,;. /  |  .       '   I  PPARTICI PATI G  BANKS
SAN FERNAJd.(I.kX:  
.S..,. L LIU ZO N
DA,; ,. - D UP 11  : ,  -- .I
TAR,AC
LUZON REGION _o                X  9  / 
..   L'ZON                   . . ....  . .
|     X   t         VISAVAS RE~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~CIO r,.3',.'' Mst X. 
i"I t -                  I ND A NA O Y
..
8 .        NIINDA~~~ISAYA   REGiIO   4 6   S,   . 
s     L             Z  I@.-SI E           LI2;Ir I  ; O4SG\J W*%L5
I  I                         N  D  A
0%A
o?    .. ...........
KILOME.TERS          7    C E L E B E S  S E A   *
OCTOBER 1968                                                      IBRD 2396






