RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY               Report No. P-697
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILLIPINES
May 15, 1969



INTT3RMTIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND RURAL CREDIT PROJECT WITH
THE GUARAkITEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to $12.5 million to the Central
Bank of the Philippines, to be guaranteed by the Republic of the Phil-
ippines.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In November 1965, the Bank made a loan of $5 million to the
Central Bank to help finance a program of medium- and long-term credits
to farmers through the rural banking system. The loan financed a pilot
project, which was intended to lead to further Bank lending for the
program if it were successful. On the whole, the pilot project has
worked out well, and the loan was fully committed by mid-1968 and fully
disbursed by end of 1968.
3.        In the normal course a loan for a Second Rural Credit Project
would have been recommended about the time the first loan was fully
committed to enable the credit program to continue with Bank financing
without interruption. However, as explaine-d in the President's Report
and Recommendation dated March 22, 1967 (P-531) in connection with the
loan for the Bataan Power Project, the Philippine authorities had been
advised that the Bank would not be prepared to consider further lending-
in the Philippines unless measures were taken to raise taxes to a satis-
factory level and remedy other deficiencies.
4.        By early 1968 it was evident that the Government was making
a concerted effort to improve performance in the public sector by
exercising closer supervision over implementing agencies, allocating
resources on a more selective basis and concentrating its efforts on
high priority sectors and projects. National revenueshad increased qit
quite significantly owing to improved tax administration and control
of smuggling. At the same time the administration was exerting great
pressure on the Congress to enact legislation to further increase tax
receipts. In anticipation of favorable congressional action on the tax
measures the Bank agreed in May 1968 to consider projects for financing
and the Government submitted a request for a second rural credit project
loan. In August 1968 Congress enacted legislation whcih is expected to
brinig a substantial increase in national revenues. Recent economic
performance is discussed more fully in Part V - The Economy.



-2-
5.        The project was appraised in August/September 1968 and
negotiations were held in Washington in April 1969.   The Honorable
Alfonso Calalang, Governor of the Central Bank, and >r. Gabriel Itchon
represented the Central Bank; Mr. Pablo Suarez of the Philippine
Embassy represented the Government as guarantor.
6.        The proposed loan would be the eleventh in the Philippines
and it will increase the total amount lent to $158.2 million, net of
cancellations.   The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to
the Philippines as at April 30, 1969:
Loan                                                       Amount (US$ million)
No.      Year     Borrower                Purpose          Bank     Undisbursed
183 PH   1957   Niational Power Corp.  Power (Binga)       18.4         -
290 PH   1961   Republic of the Phi-
lippines              Dredging             7.4         -
297 PH   1961   National Power Corp.   Powqer (Angat)      33.5         -
325 PH   1962   National Power Corp.   Power (Maria
Cristina)           3.4         -
331 BPI  1963   Philippine N4ational   Relending to the
Bank                   Private Develop-
ment Corporation
of the Philippines
(PDCP)             14.8         -
386 PH   1964   National Wlaterworks
& Sewerage Authority
(NISA)                Manila Water Supply 20.2        4.8
393 PH   1964   R.eplblic of the Phi-  Education (College
lippines              of Agriculture)     6.o        2.3
432 PH   1965   Central Bank of the
Philippines           Agriculture          5.o         -
467 PH   1966   Philippine National
Bank                  ,eiending to PDCP   25.0       12.8
491 PH   1967   Mational Power Corp.   Powver (Bataan)     12.0       10.9
Total (net of cancellations)                     145.7
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                               14.9
Total now outstanding                            130.8
Amount sold                   12.0
of which has been repaid      7.4                 4.6
Total now held by Bank                           126.2
Total undisbursed                                            31.3



-3-
7.        Although project implementation in the public sector has im-
proved considerably, a number of difficulties still remain with Bank-
financed projects.   Construction of the Manila WATater Supply Project
(Loan No. 386-PH) has repeatedly fallen behind schedule during the last
four years because of injunctions brought by domestic suppliers, poor
contractor perfornance, weak management and, from time to time, a
shortage of peso funds,   Moreover, a difficult labor situation hindered
the implementation of the extensive ref oms which NWSA and the Goverment
recognize to be necessary if NMJSA operations are to becane satisfactory.
However, a well-quialified Chairman was appointed last year and sane
improvements in management have been put in effect.  The supply works
were completed in April 1969 enabling NWSA to supply an additional 50
million gallons a day to Manila and the balance of the distribution works
should be completed by early 1970.   Although NW,SA does not expect to
have further difficulties in financing the peso costs of its construction
program its financial position remains unsatisfactory.  NWSA is consider-
ing raising its water rates but this may be difficult to implement because
the improvement in service is not yet available to all NWSA's customers.
The Bank is continuing to press NNSA to take necessary action as soon as
feasible.   The first three National Power Corporation (NPC) projects
financed with the help of Bank loans (183-PH, 297-PH and 325-PH) have been
completed and are operating--satisfactorily.  Construction of the Bataan
Power Project (Loan No. 491-PH) was initially held up because of delays in--
awarding the main equipment contracts but construction work is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily.   The implementation of NPCts overall constructicn
program has not progressed as well as expected chiefly because of delays
in obtaining reparation materials and difficulties in raising pesos through
the sale of its bonds.   About $21 million of the second loan for PDCP
(Loan No, 467-PH) has been committed and the remaining $4 million is expected
to be committed by the end of June 1969.
8.        A further loan for PDCP ($25 million) and the Upper Pampanga
Tlver Irrigation Project ($35 million) are being appraised and are ex-
pected to be ready for the Executive Directors' consideration in the next
few months.   A Grain Storage Project requiring foreign exchange finance
of about $15 million is also being appraised and may be ready for the
Executive Directors' consideration later in the year.
9.        IFC's loans -and investments in the Philippines consist of an
equity investment of P800,000 (equivalent to $205,000) in the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines, which has since been sold to
other investors; and an equity investment of $4 million equivalent and
a loan of $8 million in the Manila Electric Company, of which IFC now
holds $9.3 million for its own account consisting of $5.7 million of the
loan and $3.6 million of the investment.



PART II - DESCRUPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
10.      Borrower:                Central Bank of the Philippines.
Guarantor:               Republic of the Philippines.
Amount:                  Various currencies equivalent to
$12.5 million.
Purpose:                 To assist in financing medium- and long-
term loans by rural banks for the purchase
of farm machinery and equipment and for
livestock and fishery development.
Amortization:            In 14 years including a four-year period
of grace through semi-annual instalments
beginning June 1, 1973 and ending June 1,
1983.
Interest Rate:           6-1/2rD per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms:         The Central Bank would relend the proceeds
of the loan to rural banks at an interest
rate of 7.75;') per annum and would lend
funds from other sources at an interest
rate which would result in an average
interest rate of 77,. Rural banks would
in turn relend to farmers at 12f per annum.
Estimated Rate of
Return of the Project:   About 35'.
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.      An appraisal report entitled 'Thilippines:  Second Rural Credit
Project" (No. PA-4a), dated HIay 2, 1969, is attached.
12.      Since 1965 wjhen the Bank made its first loan (432 PH) for rural
credit in the Philippines, domestic agricultural production, principally
rice and corn, which hitherto had been increasing at a negligible rate,
has shown very impressive g&inss&nd the Philippines may shortly become
a net exporter of rice. Better cocrdination among Government.agencies,
and the provision of adequate amounts of credit for the purchase of
the necessary inputs in association with improved varieties, have
made a significant contribution to increased production. The Govern-
ment plans to maintain the momentum in domestic agriculture by



-5-
providing increasing amounts of credit and other forms of assistance to
farmers.   As-agriculture and related activities provide the livelihood
for about two-thirds of the country's population, the overall benefits to
the economy of increased farmers1 income would be considerable.
13.       The second rural credit project would extend for a further
three years the agricultural credit program financed under the first rural
credit loan.   The proposed loan would be made to the Central Bank which
would relend the proceeds to qualified rural banks to help finance the
purchase of machinery and equipment for agricultural development.   The
Rural Banks Department of the Central Bank would be responsible for
administering and supervising the project.   The Department's staff has
been increased and its qualifications broadened to handle the expanding
volume of work.   The number of rural banks has increased from 300 in 1965
to nearly 400 in 1969.   About 200 rural banks, compared with 140 under
the first project, are expected to qualify in accordance with criteria
agreed with the Bank for participation in the second project. Rural banks
have enjoyed a period of considerably increased activity during the period
1965-1967.   Deposits increased from P79 million to P142 million and the
net worth from P121 million to P158 million,   Farmers owning or cultivating
50 hectares of arable land or less, persons engaged in inland water and
coastal fishing activities, and individuals rendering direct agricultural
services would be the principal beneficiaries under the loan.
14.       In addition to providing medium- and long-term loans for the
purchase of farm machinery and the development of small private irrigation
schemes and fishponds which were included in the first project, the second
project would also finance the purchase of on-farm storage and processing
facilities, equipment and production stock for livestock development, and
small fishing boats and fishing equipment.   A total of some 6-7000
beneficiaries are expected to participate in the project.
15.       The estimated total cost of the second project is $25 million, of
which 50% is estimated to be required in foreign exchange and would be
financed by the Bank loan.   The balance of the funds would be provided by
beneficiaries, rural banks and the Central Bank.  It is estimated that
beneficiaries and rural banks would together contribute $5 million t-*ards
total project costs.   The Central Bank would lend $7.5 million (about 30%
of the project cost) derived in part from principal repayments from rural
banks under Loan No. 432-PH and the proposed loan which for a time are not
required to meet amortization payments to the Bank and in part from a
Government fund for agriculture administered by the Central Bank.
16.       The Central Bank would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan at an
interest rate of 7.75% per annum and would lend funds from other sources
at an interest rate which would result in an average rate of 7% per annum.
The relending rate of interest on the Bank's loan would give the Central
Bank a spread of 1.25% which would be sufficient to cover the Central
Bank's costs of supervision and the provision of technical services.
The rural banks' loans to beneficiaries would carry an interest rate of
12/.   The rural banks would lend to beneficiaries for periods from 3 to



-6-
10 years including an appropriate grace period, and the rural banks would
repay the Central Bank on the same terms. The Bank loan would be repaid
in 14 years with amortization starting after the fourth year. Rural banks
would carry the commercial risk on loans to farmers and the Central Bank
the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
17.       The operating policies and procedures developed under the first
project were generally satisfactory but have been revised to provide for
greater decentralization under the second project.
18.       Beneficiaries under the Bankfs loan would purchase their require-
ments through normal trade channels.   Major international manufacturers
of farm machinery and other supplies are well represented by distributors
in the Philippines and service, repair and training facilities have been
expanded during the first project.   The proposed loan would also finance
the purchase of about 50 jeep-type vehicles costing about $150,000 for the
use of Central Bank technicians working in the field. These vehicles
will be procured from time to time when needed by the Central Bank on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with agreed procedures
which would permit the Bank to review and approve bid invitations and
specifications and award of contracts.
19.       In a credit program of this kind, involving many small farmers,
a quantitative assessment of the benefits cannot be made with any certainty.
Calculations suggest that there might be increases in farmerst annual
production of rice, sugarcane, pork, poultry, and fish valued at $29 million,
providing net foreign exchange savings or earnings of about $13 million a
year. On this basis the rate of return could be put at about 35%.
PAR2T IV - LEGAL INSTRWtENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Central Bank
of the Philippines, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of
the Philippines and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
21.       The draft Loan documents contain provisions normally used for
agricultural credit projects and follow the same pattern as the documents
used for the first loan.   The operating policies and procedures for the
proposed project,and the terms and conditions of loans to be made by the
Borrower to the Rural Banks and of loans to be made by the Rural Banks
to the beneficiaries, are set forth in the Borrower's Rules and Regulations
which have been approved by the Bank and will not be amended without the
prior agreement of the Bank.



-7-
PART V - THE ECONOIM
22.       An Economic Report on "The Current Economic Situation and Prospects
of the Philippines" (No. 138a dated May 24, 1968) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 3, 1968 (R68-90).
23.       Wvhen the present Administration came to powier at the beginning
of 1966, it was confronted with (1) a serious fiscal problem; (2) a
sluggish rate of economic growth (4 to 5% per annum) in the face of an
annual increase of well over 3% in population; and (3) many shortcomings
in public administration.   However, thanks largely to substantial increases
in invisible earnings from U.S. expenditures in the Philippines, the
current accomt of the balance of payments was positive, though the foreign
exchange position was weak because of t1e net outflow of short- and long-
term capital.   For several years, government revenues had been declining
in relation to GNP, and in absolute terms they had been increasing by less
than the increase in current government expenditures.   Thus the margin
of peso funds for public investment was declining.   This, together with
administrative shortcomings in the preparation and execution of projects
attractive to foreign investment, resulted in a growing disparity between
infrastructure and the needs of the economy.   In order to contain
inflationary pressures, credit to the private sector was restricted,
thus retarding the adjustment of private industry to the new competitive
situation that followed the removal of import controls in the early
1960's.
2h.       Since rice imports had been a perennial burden on the balance-of
payments, the new Administration took on the job of increasing food pro-
duction as a first priority, together with the completion of a large number
of partially finished irrigation, transportation and other projects in the
public sector.   At the same time, it endeavored to pursue an easier
credit policy in respect of the private sector.    While the rice program
took some time to get underway, in 1968 rice production increased by 11%, and
it seems possible that the Philippines will soon become a net rice exporter,
The achievement in rice production, provided that it is sustained, will not
only improve the balance of payments but will increase incomes in rural
areas where poverty and related social unrest has long been a cause for
concern.
25.       On the fiscal side, the Governnent first turned its attention
to improving tax collections and then, in 1967/68, proposed to Congress
an extensive list of new tax measures calculated to produce an increase
in Government revenues of about 20%.   Thanks mainly to administrative
improvements, the tax revenues of the National Government increased about
38% during the two years ending June 30, 1968, rising from about 8% to
about 9.3% of GNP.   Less than half of the tax program proposed by the
Administration has been enacted, but even this is noteworthy as the first
program of its kind to be passed by Congress in over a decade.    However,
despite these fiscal accomplishments, revenues are still insufficient.
Between 1965/66 and the current fiscal year, the total expenditures
of the Philippine Government increased 50%, about equally divided between
current and capital outlays. In order to finance its program, the Government
resorted to deficit financing on an increasing scale in 1968 and 1969.



-8-
26.       As a result first of easier credit policies in the first year of
the present Adninistration and more recently, fiscal deficits, the balance
of payments has deteriorated.  Imports increased by 35%, while exports
grew by less than 3% between 1966 and 1968, and the trade deficit in
1968 climbed to a level of $302 million as compared with $241 million in
1967 and an average of $24 million during the previous three years.  The
short- and medium-term foreign liabillities of the Central Bank, which at
the end of 1966 were about $130 million, reached a level of $285 million
at the end of 1968.  A further $40 million line of credit was secured by
the Central Bank in 1969.  $187 million of these short- and medium-term
debts to United States and European banks fall due in 1969 but the Central
Bank expects that most of these liabilities will be rolled over.  After
taking account of these liabilities net foreign exchange reserves have been,
and remain, very low.
27.       Recently the Government has tried to contain import demand and
capital outflow by monetary restrictions, voluntary import quotas for
selected industries, special deposit arrangements for imports and ceilings
on letters of credit opened by commercial banks.  At least initially these
measures appear to have encouraged some speculation against the peso.
28.       If the Philippines is to continue to achieve a satisfactory rate
of growth, which amounted to about 6% in 1968, long-term capital inflows must
be substituted for short-term borrowing.    It is encouraging that the
Goverment has approached a private consulting firm for assistance in the
formulation of its debt management strategy.   The project pipeline being
built up for the Bank is also an encouraging development.
29.       The external longer-term indebtedness of the Philippines is
relati-vely low and the ratio of debt service to foreign exchange earnings,
now 7-8%, should not exceed 10% in the 1970's insofar as public debt is
concerned.   Thus the Philippines should be able to service an increasing
inflow of long-term capital for the financing of economically productive
investments.
PART VI -  COMIPLIANCE WTH ARTICLES OF AGRMiENT
30.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECO14NDATION
31.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
By
Washington, D. C.                         J. Burke Knapp
May 15, 1969



