Document of                FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3305-C14
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR AN
OIL PALM AND RUBBER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
May 6, 1982
1b4 iqa  hus 0 re*dei instibOd" Sad may be used by reciplers ouly i the peonmace of
tbelrcW o   tes. Its cq s ly zr   otherwise be dilsase wt  Wmd I   w              I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                 =       CFAF 270 a!
CFAF 1 million       =       US$3,704
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)              0.621 miles
I hectare (ha)                2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)               2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)       =      0.984 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
CAMDEV    Cameroon Development Corporation
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CDC       Commonwealth Development Corporation (U.K.)
EDF       European Development Fund (Brussels)
EIB       European Investment Bank (Luxembourg)
FONADER   Fonds National de Developpement Rural (Yaounde)
HEVECAM   Societe Hevea Cameroun
SOCAPALM  Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
FISCAL YEAR
July 1    -      June 30
a/   The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) at the ratio of
FF I to CFAF 50. The French franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             United Republic of Cameroon
Implementing
Entities:           SOCAPALM, CAMDEV, FONADER
Amount:               US$50.8 million, including capitalized front-end fee
of US$0.8 million.
Terms:                20 years, including five years of grace, at 11.6 percent
interest per annum.
Flow of Loan
Proceeds:           To SOCAPALM:  US$12 million as loan on Bank terms;
US$4.3 million as equity; US$4.1 million
as grant for the smallholder component.
To CAMDEV:    US$21.9 million as loan on Bank terms;
US$3.7 million as equity; US$4 million
as grant for the smallholder component.
Project
Description:        The proposed project, to be implemented with the parti-
cipation of FONADER, would help SOCAPALM and CAMDEV to
consolidate investments made under previous Bank Group-
assisted projects. The project includes: (a) maintenance
and limited planting and replanting of rubber and oil
palm plantations; (b) provision or improvement of pro-
cessing and storage facilities, social infrastructure,
vehicles and equipment; (c) provision of technical
assistance, training and studies; and (d) continued
support to smallholder schemes.
Benefits and Risks:  The proposed project would help strengthen the financial
situation of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV as yields and produc-
tivity increase, and would also allow the structural
*                               improvements needed to ensure success of the Government
strategy for oil palm and rubber development. Addi-
tionally, the project would help meet a growing domestic
demand for oil palm, and would generate foreign exchange
earnings.
The main risk facing the project is that the sectoral
strategy (based on parastatal companies, with a gradual
increase in smallholder involvement) may not be effective
due to continued labor and management problems or
unfavorable price trends for oil palm and rubber. To
offset those risks, the project includes specific measures
for management strengthening and institution building,
and these are expected to lead to improved efficiency
and to the desired objective of lower costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_ _ _ _~~~~~



Estimated Costs:
Local        Foreign       Total
----------US$ million---------
I. SOCAPALM
A.  Plantations                           4.3          2.1          6.4
B. Facilities (buildings, equip-
ment and vehicles)                 5.9         13.6          19.4
C. Services, Technical assistance
Training, Studies                  0.2          0.5           0.7
10.4         16.2         26.6
II. CAMDEV
A.  Plantations                          28.0         14.2         42.2
B. Facilities (building, equip-
ment and vehicles)                 9.3         16.5          25.8
C. Services, Technical assistance,
Training, Studies                    0.9           2.1          3.0
38.2         32.8         71.0
III. SMALLHOLDER PROGRAMS
A.  with SOCAPALM                         1.6          2.4          4.0
B.  with CAMDEV                           3.1          1.7          4.8
4.7          4.1          8.8
TOTAL BASE COST                                53.3          53.1        106.4
IV. CONTINGENCIES:
- physical                           2.7          2.6           5.3
- price                             19.7         20.6          40.3
2 2. 2*4     23. 2        45.6
(TAXES)                                   (7.8)                     (7.8)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            67.9         76.3         144.2
Total Cost including taxes                     75.7         76.3         152.0
Front end fee on Bank loan                      -            0.8           0.8
Total financing required
(including taxes)                        75.7          77.1        152.8



- iii -
(continued)
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
-------- US$ million --------
IBRD                                   -          50.8         50.8
CDC                                    -          12.3          12.3
CCCE                                   _            7.4          7.4
EIB                                    -            6.6          6.6
GOVT. (incl. SOCAPALM, CAMDEV
and FONADER)                  75.7           -          75.7
75.7        77.1        152.8
Estimated Disbursements
from the Bank Loan:
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
---------------US$ million-----------------
Annual                          3.8      10.0    10.0    12.0    10.0        5.0
Cumulative                      3.8      13.8    23.8    35.8    45.8    50.8
Rate of Return:  (calculated on main productive components, representing about
93 percent of project costs):  excluding costs incurred under
previous projects, about 22.5 percent; including such costs,
about 12.5 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3713-CM, dated May 5, 1982.
Maps: IBRD 16005R
IBRD 16006R
.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR AN
OIL PALM AND RUBBER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the United Republic of Cameroon for US$50.8 million (including the
capitalized front-end fee of US$0.8 million) to help finance an Oil Palm
and Rubber Consolidation Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years
including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent p.a. The loan
proceeds would be made available to SOCAPALM (US$20.4 million) and CAMDEV
(US$29.6 million). The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the European Investment Bank
(EIB) would participate in the financing of the project with loans amounting
respectively to the equivalent of US$12.3, 7.4 and 6.6 million. The CDC and
CCCE loans would be on the same terms as the Bank's except for the annual
interest rate which would be 11.5 and 10 percent respectively. The EIB loan
would be for 15 years (including 2.5 years of grace) with interest at 8
percent p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon--Economic Memorandum"
(No. 2877-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30, 1980.
Since then two economic missions have visited Cameroon, as well as a number of
sector review missions. The findings of these missions are incorporated in
the following paragraphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon was a federation from the time it gained independence in
1960, until the United Republic, which unified the anglophone western and
francophone eastern parts of the country, was formed in 1972. The Government
has concentrated on fostering a sense of national unity among the different
parts of the country: the sparsely populated eastern region, the relatively
small but densely populated western part of the country, the sahelian zone in
the north with Muslim traditions, and the southern tropical regions.
4.        Cameroon has a population of 8.4 million (1980) and covers an area
of 475,000 km2. It is one of Africa's most diversified countries, with a
wide range of climatic zones, ecological conditions, population densities,
ethnic groups and traditional cultures. Its main opportunities for develop-
ment lie in the expansion of agricultural, livestock, and forestry production;
1/   The text of this section is substantially the same as in the President's
Report for the Forestry Project which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on January 18, 1982.



- 2 -
the exploitation of energy and mineral resources; and the processing of
agricultural, forestry and mineral products for domestic consumption and
export. Cameroon became an oil producer in 1978 and is believed to have
exported about 4 million tons of crude petroleum in 1981. Further increases
in crude petroleum production are expected. In 1981, Cameroon began producing
refined petroleum products. The country also has unexploited gas potential.
5.        Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by large areas of low
population density and the country's port facilities and transport network
also serve landlocked Chad and the Central African Republic. Adequate port
and trunk transportation systems are essential for promoting agriculture,
forestry and industry, and for strengthening internal and international
communications. With the growth of industry, transportation, construction and
services, Cameroon is becoming increasingly urbanized. About 30 percent of
the population now live in towns, with the heaviest concentrations in Douala
the major port and industrial center, and Yaounde the capital.
6.        Cameroon subscribes to a philosophy of planned liberalism, and
the country's economic development has been pursued within a five-year
investment planning framework. The Fourth Plan period ended in June, 1981,
and the Fifth Plan is now in effect. Cameroon's development and macro-
economic policies have been rather cautious, with the result that, while
until the late 70's growth has not been exceptionally rapid, the country has
enjoyed noteworthy economic stability.
7.        Growth.  Over the past fifteen years Cameroon has experienced
accelerating rates of output and population growth. The real GDP growth
rate during the Second Plan Period (1966-71) averaged 4.2 percent; in the
Third (1971-76), it rose to 4.5 percent; and in the Fourth (1976-81), it
is estimated provisionally at 8.1 percent. Population growth in the three
periods was about 1.8, 1.9 and 2.3 percent a year respectively. Per capita
GNP rose between 1966 and 1980 at an annual rate of about 3.1 percent.
8.        Within the overall pattern of accelerating growth, there was some
unevenness in the performance of key productive sectors from one planning
period to another. During the Third Plan in particular, both agriculture and
manufacturing experienced periods of slowdown, although services grew strongly.
Contributing to the agricultural slowdown were decreases in the output of two
major export crops--cocoa and arabica coffee--related to declines in producer
prices compared with food prices, and to the termination of a fertilizer
subsidy program for arabica coffee. Forestry output dropped towards the end
of the period because of reduced Western European demand and some transporta-
tion bottlenecks.  Growth of the manufacturing and mining sector slowed as a
result of the declining momentum of import substitution activities, which had
produced rapid increases in manufacturing output during the Second Plan years,
and deteriorating terms of trade. The acceleration in growth during the
Fourth Plan was helped by rapidly rising construction output, reflecting
sharply higher levels of investment, by recovery in cocoa and robusta coffee
production, as farmers responded to higher producer prices, and by recovery in
forestry output. Since 1978, the start-up of oil production has contributed
significantly to aggregate growth.



- 3 -
9.        Investment and Savings.  Underlying the longer term rise in GDP
growth have been rising proportions of investment. The investment/GDP ratio
averaged over 15 percent during the Second Plan, about 19 percent during the
Third, and close to 24 percent during 1976-80. Investment priorities have
shifted over time. The First Plan emphasized directly productive projects
(53 percent), and the Second, infrastructure and social projects (58 percent).
During 1976-80, directly productive activities were again favored (63 percent),
with heavy emphasis on manufacturing, mining and energy (52 percent). Despite
the rising investment/GDP ratios, the mobilization of domestic savings more
than kept pace, due largely to increased public savings. Gross domestic
savings rose from about 84 percent of total investment under the Second and
Third Plans to about 87 percent during 1976-79. After allowing for net factor
service and current transfers and the amortization of foreign medium- and
long-term loans, reliance on foreign financing fell from about 33 percent of
total investment during the Second Plan to about 30 percent during 1976-79.
10.       Public Finance.  Budgetary revenues amounted to about 15 percent
of GDP during the Second and Third Plans and increased slightly during
1976-79. Public savings after debt service declined from about 39 percent
of total public investment during the First Plan to about 36 percent during
the Second; however, it rebounded to 55 percent during 1976-79, thanks to
substantial contributions from the agricultural export stabilization funds.
11.       Balance of Payments.  Overall, the balance of payments has not posed
particular problems, apart from some short-term deterioration during the
1974-76 period. In 1977-80, exports rose substantially (at an average annual
rate of 26 percent) but imports also increased (at an average annual rate of
20 percent) because of more rapid economic growth and higher investment.
International reserves were rebuilt in 1976-80, in part by the use of IMF
credits, rising in 1980 to a gross level equivalent to about seven weeks of
imports and to a net level of about five weeks. This was low by international
standards, although still acceptable given Cameroon's membership in the
Central African Monetary Union.
Development Prospects and Issues
12.       Short- and Medium-term Developments.  Oil production is bringing
with it significant changes in the Cameroonian economy. Historically,
Cameroon has been dependent on the export of agricultural products for the
bulk (72 percent in 1977/78) of its export earnings. Cocoa and coffee alone
accounted for 53 percent of the value of 1977/78 exports. However, oil
exports which represented about 1 percent of total exports in 1977/78, are
estimated at about 28 percent in 1979/80, with the share of agricultural
products dropping to close to 50 percent. Exports of oil have continued to
rise sharply in 1980/81, further reducing the proportional importance of
agricultural exports; this trend is expected to persist for at least two more
years.
13.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth in absolute
terms during 1980-86 is nonetheless quite favorable. Agricultural growth
expectations are based on some increase in cocoa output above 110,000 tons;



- 4 -
recovery of robusta coffee; continuing expansion for arabica coffee; in-
creased production of most food and other crops, as well as livestock; and
expansion of forestry production. Growth of industrial and mining production
is expected to result from existing and expanded manufacturing facilities
(particularly those for food, beverages and construction materials), from
some new industrial projects and from new mining ventures. An impact on the
structure of the economy is expected from the Fifth Development Plan invest-
ment program (1981-86). The proposed investment/GDP ratio under the Fifth
Plan is 23 percent. The investment program stresses support to agriculture
and expansion of the supply of technical and professional manpower, while
energy, mining and industry are to receive diminished emphasis.
14.       Longer-Term Developments.  Cameroon's promising potential in areas
outside agriculture implies a longer-term structural shift towards a more
diversified industrial base. Agriculture will play a critical but less
dominant role, and a shift in priorities towards increased food production for
the growing urban population appears probable. The rate at which agricultural
productivity increases will be a crucial determinant of the pace of economic
development, and will call for an appropriate mix of public intervention and
private initiative.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
15.       Total debt outstanding and disbursed rose from US$514 million at the
end of 1976 to US$1.9 billion at the end of 1981. Debt service payments rose
from US$39 million in 1976 to US$132 million in 1979, while exports increased
from US$757 million to about US$1.7 billion during the same period. Notwith-
standing a hardening of average loan terms in the 1970s, Cameroon's debt
service ratio was still less than 10 percent at the end of 1979, and is
projected to stay in the 12 to 14 percent range throughout the present decade.
Borrowing on non-concessionary terms is expected to account for about two-
thirds of total new commitments, and average terms are expected to harden
during the period. Because of higher debt service payments, projected net
disbursements will probably be less than in the past but, with Cameroon's
favorable export and savings prospects, are expected to be sufficient to allow
an investment rate above 25 percent of GDP, as well as the restoration of a
strong foreign reserve position.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       Bank and IDA commitments in Cameroon as of March 31, 1982 amounted
to US$625.4 million and covered 39 projects: 18 in agriculture, 11 in trans-
portation, 3 in education, 3 in public utilities, 2 small- and medium-scale
enterprise projects and 2 technical assistance projects. Transport and
agriculture each account for about 40 percent of these commitments. IFC has
invested in five enterprises, with total net loan and equity commitments of
US$12.7 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA



credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982, including notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks have occasionally
been encountered in implementation, the Government has consistently shown
willingness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
In the past, Cameroon's disbursement rate compared very favorably with that
of most other countries. Recently, however, performance has deteriorated
somewhat, which appears to be partly symptomatic of administrative difficul-
ties that have become apparent, notably in the central procurement agency.
Several steps, including the provision of technical support to expedite
procurement procedures, are under consideration to improve the situation.
17.       The Bank's initial investment strategy in Cameroon was to support
the Government's development efforts in three main directions: (i) streng-
thening and extending the road and rail trunk systems; (ii) raising agricul-
tural output and net exports, with emphasis on the establishment of modern
industrial plantations; and (iii) providing assistance to education. Through
1975, apart from one water supply project, Bank lending was concentrated
entirely in the transport, agriculture and education sectors. Since 1975,
lending has become more diversified, extending into other areas including
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and technical assistance.
18.       For the future, projects are being prepared in agriculture to
extend rural development efforts and strengthen agricultural research, and
to rehabilitate and expand existing infrastructure in transport. Additional
education and technical assistance projects are also planned, as well as
further SME, urban and water supply/sewerage projects. The Bank has carried
out sector studies in forestry, energy, industry and telecommunications, and
additional projects in these areas have been tentatively identified. Thus,
the trend towards further sectoral diversification of Bank lending, reflecting
the growing complexity of Cameroon's development needs, will continue.
19.       In addition to lending operations, the Bank will expand its program
of economic and sector work, develop the planning and provision of technical
assistance, and broaden its economic dialogue with the Government. In the
short- and medium-term, this dialogue is expected to cover the pace and
pattern of oil and gas development; the size and composition of the investment
program; the role of the private and public sectors; technical and other
skilled manpower constraints; training needs; improvements in the Government
administration; development priorities for export and food crops; and poten-
tial bottlenecks in infrastructure. The dialogue on longer-term issues would
center on basic agricultural and industrial development policies. An agricul-
tural sector study is being prepared and will be discussed with the Government
shortly. Regarding industry, the Bank has recently completed a comprehensive
study of industrialization and the system of incentives, which has been
discussed with the Government and has led to the provision of technical
assistance to strengthen the Government's capabilities for industrial policy
analysis and reformulation. Issues for continued dialogue are the objectives,
economic performance and accountability of public enterprises.



-6-
Donor Activities
20.       Disbursements of official development assistance during the second
half of the 1960s amounted to about US$45.0 million a year, mostly in the form
of grants. France provided most of the assistance, which was concentrated in
infrastructure and some productive sectors. EDF and EIB directed most of
their assistance to agriculture and infrastructure. Bank and IDA disbursements
were small during this period. In the 1970s, foreign aid has increased to
about US$90 million a year, with only one-fifth in the form of grants. Bank
and IDA financing amounted to about 23 percent of total disbursements. Bank
Group lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with that of other
donors; in 18 of the 39 Bank projects, joint or parallel financing was arranged
and expanded cofinancing is being actively sought for several projects under
consideration.
21.       Cameroon is now borrowing increasingly from private sources; such
borrowing rose to over 40 percent of external financing in 1975-79, compared
with only 11 percent in 1967-69. Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
December 31, 1980, amounted to US$2.0 billion, 7.6 percent of which in the
form of Bank loans and 7.3 percent in IDA credits. Bank loans accounted for
9.2 percent of public debt service and IDA credits for 0.9 percent. By 1985,
Bank loans and IDA credits are projected to account for about 26 percent of
debt outstanding and about 14 percent of debt service.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture has traditionally been the mainstay of the Cameroonian
economy, directly accounting, until recently, for about 70 percent of employ-
ment, 70 percent of export earnings and 35 percent of tax revenues. The
sector exhibits considerable diversity of output, varying from livestock,
rice, millet, sorghum and other Sahelian crops in the north, to coffee, cocoa,
tea and other tree crops and maize, manioc and other food crops in the rest of
the country. Food and beverage processing is dominant in manufacturing and
agriculturally-based activity plays a major role in trade and transport.
23.       With rising petroleum output, the relative position of agriculture
is quickly changing. Between FYs 1978 and 1980, the output of the primary
sector (agriculture, forestry and fishing) fell from about 35 to 30 percent
of GDP, and agricultural exports fell from about three-quarters to a half of
total merchandise exports. These trends are expected to continue. Further,
if present urbanization trends persist or intensify, urban food needs will
be growing strongly, so that agricultural productivity will have to increase
sharply if greater reliance on food imports is to be avoided. Thus, emphasis
on domestic food production is called for, with only modest and regionally
selective expansion of export crops. However, with a view to preserving
the long-run viability of the various agricultural regions, as well as to a
diversified export-earning capacity, Cameroon should retain agricultural
activities with good long-term potential, even in areas where expansion is
for the time being inappropriate.



-7 -
24.       Cameroon's agriculture is dominated by smallholder farming, account-
ing for about 93 percent of total agricultural output, mainly food crops for
local markets, and cocoa, coffee and cotton for export. The remaining 7 per-
cent of agricultural output is produced by plantations. The Bank has assisted
in financing a growing number of smallholder projects (irrigated rice, cocoa,
coffee, livestock and rural development projects) and will accord the sector
highest priority in the future. Particular measures envisaged include:
completion and discussion with the Government of an agricultural sector policy
study, review of the structure of incentives; additional studies in specific
problem areas (e.g., farm input delivery systems); and a project, covering
both cash and food crops, to strengthen agricultural research and the related
institutions. Overall progress in raising smallholder productivity has been
slow, but continuing efforts are being made to identify successful approaches.
The Oil Palm and Rubber Sub-Sector
25.       Over the past two decades, the Bank has supported Government efforts
to expand, in parallel with the smallholder sector, a parastatal estate
sub-sector based essentially on oil palm and rubber. The objectives of this
strategy were to: (i) diversify Cameroon's agricultural base; (ii) develop
local expertise and techniques; (iii) ensure self-sufficiency in palm oil, an
essential element of the local diet (thereby conserving foreign exchange); and
(iv) exploit, in the case of rubber, ecological and market conditions favoring
the development of a new and promising long-term source of export earnings.
In addition, it was expected that these plantations would contribute to
balanced regional development, foster the establishment of networks of roads,
infrastructure and other public services in largely undeveloped areas, and
serve as nuclei for smallholder production of palm oil and rubber drawing on
support from the estates. In this connection, the Bank supported two projects
under each of the three parastatal enterprises comprising the sub-sector
(HEVECAM, SOCAPALM and CAMDEV) for a total, in loans and credit, of US$115.1
million.
26.       At the completion of these projects, the Bank will have helped
finance the creation of some 48,000 ha of industrial rubber and oil palm
plantations (about 25,000 ha in rubber), plus some 4,000 ha of associated
outgrower plantations. Results have been mixed. The value of palm oil and
rubber output is still small - under 2 percent of that for agriculture as a
whole in 1978 - but it will grow as young plantations reach maturity. However,
the estates have been plagued by management, labor and productivity problems
(para. 30). Furthermore, Cameroon appears unlikely to enjoy a competitive
advantage in export markets for plantation palm oil, although long-term
prospects for rubber are more promising. As noted, total smallholder acreage
remains limited, but this is not surprising in view of the difficulty of
mobilizing smallholder interest until the estates are more fully developed and
the potential for rubber can be demonstrated.
27.       In light of both the sector-specific problems and petroleum-related
global uncertainties (para. 12) - inflation, pressures on real wages - it
appeared preferable for the Government to limit expansion of oil palm and



- 8 -
rubber, and to concentrate instead on consolidating and improving the effi-
ciency of present operations so as to maximize returns on existing investments.
Initially, Government intended to continue giving priority to expansion of the
parastatal plantations, while testing and developing smallholder operations on
a modest scale. This strategy could still be a viable one for the longer-term.
However, its success will be heavily dependent on labor costs and availability,
and in any case, it would initially require consolidating the operations and
improving the efficiency of the parastatal enterprises involved. The Govern-
ment eventually was persuaded to give priority to rehabilitation and renewal
and to measures aimed at achieving optimum use of existing plantation assets,
while fostering moderate expansion of smallholder activity.
28.       Thus the Government has agreed to refrain from any expansion of
these crops at HEVECAM, SOCAPALM and CAMDEV, while its proposed sub-sector
strategy for the Sixth Plan is under review; the deadline for this review by
the Bank is December 1984 (Sections 4.02 of draft Loan Agreement and 3.04 of
draft Project Agreement). In addition, given the country's uncompetitive
position on export markets for palm oil (paras. 26 and 46), Government is
currently engaging consultants, to be financed under the ongoing CAMDEV II
Project, to conduct a study of vegetable oil markets, which will help determine
appropriate production levels and suitable arrangements for that crop.
The Institutions
29.       The parastatal oil palm and rubber sub-sector comprises three com-
panies: HEVECAM, SOCAPALM and CAMDEV. HEVECAM and SOCAPALM are wholly
state-owned, whille CAMDEV is jointly owned by Government and a public sector
agency. HEVECAM has received about US$47 million in loans/credits from the
Bank/IDA and has planted about 13,500 ha of rubber; its planting programs have
consistently been on target and costs are now well controlled, after an initial
period of overruns. The company is well managed, and does not, at this stage,
need the kind of rehabilitation effort proposed for the two others under this
project. SOCAPALM has planted 21,000 ha of oil palm, of which about 70
percent is under production and the remainder would be brought into bearing
under the proposed project. Its investments in 1970-81 totalled about
US$50 million, financed by the Government and external sources - CCCE, EDF,
EIB and the Bank Group (for US$35 million). CAMDEV estates cover 39,000 ha:
21,000 under rubber, 16,000 under oil palm, the rest mostly under tea and
banana. Its 1967-81 investment program, totalling about US$54 million, was
financed by self-generated funds and long-term borrowing from CCCE, CDC and
the Bank Group (for US$33 million).
30.       At present, with deficits amounting, as of December 1981, to about
US$4 million for SOCAPALM and US$6 million for CAMDEV, both companies face
financial difficulties that jeopardize maintenance operations. Some of the
underlying reasons are common to both: over-optimistic yield estimates at
appraisal, long gestation periods of both crops, large areas of still unproduc-
tive plantations, unfavorable world price trends particularly for palm oil,
and insufficient capital base, which have forced the companies to resort to



- 9 -
short-term overdrafts to meet their working capital needs. Other problems
differ between the two corporations. Despite a team of experienced managers,
SOCAPALI still suffers from an unstable labor force, with low productivity,
high turnover and absenteeism, largely attributable to its location in a
labor-scarce area, and to inadequate social infrastructure, so that it is
mostly staffed with young, male unmarried workers. CAMDEV has been affected
by internal management conflicts and insufficient delegation of authority,
notably in personnel management; ineffective cost control has led to delays
and cost overruns in its investment program; finally, its inadequate incen-
tive system (poor rewards for outstanding performance and unattractive pension
benefits, a particularly acute concern for a company largely staffed with
middle-aged employees), results in low motivation and inefficiency and in a
shortage of skilled personnel (mainly tappers), although there is no lack of
unskilled labor. The combination of these factors resulted in a shortfall of
self-generated funds, while investments substantially exceeded appraisal
estimates.
31.       The above issues would be addressed under the project.  The finan-
cial structure of both companies would be strengthened, and yields will
improve as the young plantations mature. At SOCAPALM, although peak yields
will not, for ecological reasons, exceed 13.5 tons of fresh fruit bunches/ha
(compared to the 15 tons expected at appraisal), the company is viable in the
medium- to long-term perspective, provided fresh capital is injected as a
bridging measure. The Government therefore agreed to increase SOCAPALM's
capital by CFAF 2 billion (US$7.4 million): CFAF 1 billion would be paid
in as a condition of loan effectiveness and the balance not later than June 30,
1983 (Sections 6.01(e) and 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Although
uncertainties concerning labor remain, the project provides for improvements
in living conditions (housing, schools, water supply, etc.) and a socio-
ethnological study to define measures to stabilize the labor force. Better
operating and administrative facilities are also expected to increase effi-
ciency.
32.       At CAMDEV, steps have been taken since June 1981 to cut costs and
reduce staff, with notable results. In January 1982, the Government appointed
a new Chairman of the Board and strengthened the authority of the General
Manager, a move which should contribute materially to the restoration of
sound management. To help the company overcome its temporarily tight liquidity
position, the Government agreed to provide a CFAF 6 billion (US$22.2 million)
capital increase: CFAF 4 billion would be paid in as a condition of loan
effectiveness, and the balance in two equal tranches by June 30, 1983 and
June 30, 1984 (Sections 6.01(e) and 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
In addition, Government confirmed its intention to grant to both companies
income tax exemptions for the project period in order to strengthen their
working capital. However, since the capital increases would be ineffective in
the absence of more fundamental improvements, the Government also agreed to:
(i) international recruitment of five management specialists in line positions
for three years, to be employed as a condition of effectiveness and to be in
their posts as a condition of disbursement against the CANDEV component



- 10 -
(Section 6.01(d) and para. 4(e) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement;
and (ii) a consultant review of CAMDEV's organization, accounting system, and
financial and management structure (financed under the ongoing CAMDEV II
Project) to be submitted to the Bank no later than September 30, 1982. In
addition, Government gave assurances that before December 31, 1983, it would
propose to the Bank for review, new measures to improve incentives to the
senior staff of both companies (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
33.       FONADER is an autonomous agency funded by annual Government sub-
sidies and stabilization fund transfers. Because it lacks field staff, it has
not played a major role as a rural development body, and is now evolving into
an agricultural credit institution. For that reason, FONADER would finance
the smallholder credit subcomponent of the proposed project, while the other
smallholders activities (extension services, road construction) would be
undertaken directly by SOCAPALM and CAMDEV.
Bank Involvement in the Sector
34.       Bank Group lending to SOCAPALM and CAMDEV has amounted to US$67.6
million, provided under four different projects which have been relatively
successful in establishing about 23,000 ha of oil palm and 12,000 ha of rubber
industrial and smallholder plantations. OED Report No. 1752 (SecM77-736) on
the SOCAPALM I and CAMDEV I Projects, issued in October 1977, concluded that
these two projects had largely achieved their objectives, i.e., the establish-
ment of a commercial oil palm estate in the Eastern Region (SOCAPALM), and an
improvement of CAMDEV's financial position and management.  The financial
difficulties experienced by both projects were due partly to cost overruns
caused by higher than anticipated inflation and technical problems, and partly
to over-estimation of potential yields at appraisal. During implementation of
the two follow-up projects, costs were well controlled and overruns small
(less than 2 percent of the proposed project). Outside the Bank's projects,
however, CAMDEV experienced large overruns in its replanting operations,
attributable mainly to insufficient management control. For this reason the
proposed project would cover the totality of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV activities
(except CAMDEV's tea and banana operations), so as to ensure closer coopera-
tion and coordinated planning. The Bank and other donors would thus be in a
better position to promote a consistent overall approach to the oil palm and
rubber sub-sector, and to help pave the way for sustained future development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was identified in 1980, when it became obvious
that the low productivity of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV threatened their future, and
impaired the success of the Government's estate-based strategy for the oil
palm and rubber sub-sector. Both companies having already made the heavier
part of their investment (land clearing and infrastructure establishment),
what was needed was to improve their efficiency and to provide temporary
financial relief until, with new plantings reaching maturity, they could



- 11 -
generate sufficient funds to cover operating and capital costs. In anticipa-
tion of a good return on the additional investment, the Bank and the co-donors
agreed to consider extending assistance because these companies represent
valuable assets that should be preserved, given the long-term potential of the
sub-sector for the Cameroonian economy. The project was appraised in February
1981, with a follow-up mission in September 1981. During this period, exten-
sive discussions were held with the Government which recognized the need for
consolidation, agreed to address squarely the problems of the sub-sector, and
made significant progress towards resolving them (para. 32). Negotiations were
held in Washington on March 17-23, 1982. The Cameroonian delegation was led
by H.E. Mr. Paul Pondi, Cameroonian Ambassador to the U.S. The main features
of the proposed project are highlighted in the Loan and Project Summary,
supplemented by Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 3713-CM is being
circulated separately.
36.       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to improve the
efficiency and raise the productivity of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV; (ii) to achieve
satisfactory returns on the substantial past investments in the two companies;
(iii) to improve their production technology; and (iv) to encourage smallholder
participation and development. The project, to be executed over five years,
would consist of the following components:
(a) Plantations: maintenance until full production of some 15,200 ha of
existing oil palm and rubber plantations, and planting (on already
cleared land) or replanting with rubber some 5,200 ha of existing
plantations.
(b) Facilities: improvement or provision of palm oil and rubber pro-
cessing facilities, oil storage capacity, housing and social infra-
structure (schools, water supply, electrification, roads), vehicles
and equipment.
(c) Technical assistance, training, studies: consultants' services
and studies to (i) examine and formulate remedial measures for the
labor problem at SOCAPALM; (ii) prepare its crop diversification
program; (iii) strengthen, then reorganize CAMDEV; (iv) reexamine
vegetable oil market prospects in the light of recent developments;
and (v) provide management and staff training, and continue existing
scholarship programs.
(d) Smallholder schemes: Continuation of programs undertaken under
the previous Bank Group projects, comprising (i) upkeeping until
full production some 3,100 ha of oil palm and rubber plantations,
(ii) planting with rubber an additional 2,500 ha (iii) providing
road maintenance equipment and (iv) strengthening the smallholder
unit of CAMDEV.



- 12 -
Cost Estimates
37.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$152 million (March
1982 prices) including all identifiable taxes. Apart from import duties and
levies on equipment, from which the project would be exempt, the tax element
amounts to $7.8 million, leaving a net-of-tax total project cost of $144.2
million. The foreign exchange component is about 50 percent (US$76.3 million).
A total of 15 staff-years of long-term technical assistance is provided for
at an average all-inclusive cost of US$11,700 per man-month, in line with
prevailing and projected rates for consulting firms operating in Cameroon.
Total contingencies amount to 30 percent of total project costs:  physical
contingencies have been estimated at 5 percent on all costs except salaries;
price contingencies for fertilizers, chemicals and gasoline were based on
projected price increases for petroleum products (declining from 12 to 10
percent over FY82-87); other foreign exchange costs follow projected inter-
national inflation (declining from 9 to 7 percent over the same period), and
local cost increase is linked to expected domestic inflation (12 percent
p.a.).
Financing Plan
38.       The proposed project would be financed by loans from the Bank -
US$50.8 million, or 35 percent of net project cost; CDC (US$12.3 million
equivalent, 10 percent); CCCE (US$7.4 million, 5.1 percent); and EIB (US$6.6
million, 2.8 percent). The domestic contribution would finance the local cost
component, i.e., US$75.7 million, or about 50 percent of total costs, and
consist of: (a) capital increases of US$29.6 million equivalent provided by
the Government to SOCAPALM and CAMDEV (para. 31 and 32); (b) interest-free
government loans (US$11.1 million) and loans by local bank (US$2.2 million) to
SOCAPALM and CAMDEV; (c) self-generated funds of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV (US$28.3
million); and (d) for the smallholder component, a Government grant of about
US$4.5 million. The Bank loan would be made to the Government for 20 years,
including a five-year grace period. The CDC and CCCE loans are on the same
terms as the Bank's, except for the interest rate which would be 11.5 and 10
percent respectively. The EIB loan is for 15 years (including 2.5 years of
grace for SOCAPALM and 3 years for CAMDEV) at an annual rate of 8 percent.
Except for the Dibombari and Mondoni oil mills and for 90 percent of CAMDEV's
vehicles, which would be financed respectively by EIB and CCCE on a parallel
basis, all cofinancing would be jointly undertaken on a pari passu basis. The
Bank loan would finance: US$16.3 million to cover 44.5 percent of SOCAPALM's
investment program, US$25.6 million or 25 percent of CAMDEV's investment
program and US$8.1 million or 64 percent of the smallholder program. The Bank
loan would be linked to the CDC, CCCE and EIB loans by a cross-effectiveness
clause (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Arrangements
39.       Given the vulnerability of estate companies to the vagaries of
climate and to market fluctuations, it was deemed necessary to strengthen the
financial structure of both beneficiaries by further increasing their equity



- 13 -
position. Bank loan proceeds would therefore be made available to SOCAPALM
and CAMDEV under separate financing agreements with the Government as follows:
-    US$12.0 million and US$21.9 million respectively as loans on the
same terms as the Bank loan;
-    US$4.3 and US$3.7 million respectively as equity; and
-    US$4.1 and US$4.0 million respectively as grants for extension
services, infrastructure and administrative costs of the smallholder
units.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk, as under the previous
SOCAPALM and CAMDEV projects. Effectiveness of the two financing agreements,
with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
Bank loan effectiveness (Section 3.01(b) and (c), 6.01(b) and 6.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
40.       As regards the smallholder component, Government will make available
sufficient domestic funds through FONADER to finance credit requirements
(US$3.7 million) of participating farmers (para. 33). To this end, FONADER
would sign with the Government a financing agreement acceptable to the Bank,
specifying, inter alia, an appropriate rate of interest on smallholder credit
(the present rate is 9 percent). Funds for infrastructure and extension
services would be passed on directly to SOCAPALM and CAMDEV. The smallholders
component would be managed and supervised under separate credit administration
agreements between FONADER and SOCAPALM and CANIDEV acceptable to the Bank, as
under previous Bank assisted projects. Effectiveness of the FONADER financing
agreement and of the two credit administration agreements would be a condition
of disbursement against the smallholder component (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Based on past domestic inflation (11 percent in 1979/80), the pro-
posed on-lending rate would be positive in real terms, but may not be so
over the project period, given the uncertainties linked to the potentially
inflationary impact of petroleum development. It would be higher than both
the preferential rates available to public enterprises and small borrowers
(5 to 10 percent) and the rates paid on savings deposits (7.5 percent) and in
line with prevailing commercial rates (10 to 14 percent) in Cameroon. The
subsidy element in the project is justified in the context of Government's
efforts to promote smallholders' participation in the sub-sector so as to
improve income distribution and slow down the rural exodus.
Procurement and Disbursements
42.       Except for vehicles financed by CCCE, all goods, works and services
would be procured following Bank procedures. Contracts of US$100,000 or more
for vehicles, equipment, fertilizer would be awarded through international
competitive bidding (ICB); these purchases are expected to total about US$54.5
million, of which US$22.0 million would be financed by the Bank loan, and
would be grouped whenever possible to derive maximum benefits from bulk



- 14 -
procurement. Contracts worth less than US$100,000 but more than US$50,000
would be awarded through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank; such contracts are not expected to exceed US$9.6 million (of which
Bank: US$5.0 million). Contracts for civil works estimated under US$50,000,
which are not appropriate for ICB because of their dispersion, would be
awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three reputable contractors;
such contracts, amounting to about US$16.3 million (Bank: US$7.0 million),
may be undertaken by force account, if there are no bidders once they have
been approved by the Bank. About 180 man-months of technical assistance
would be provided under the project for a total cost of US$2.0 million (Bank:
US$1.0 million). All consultants would be recruited following Bank Guidelines.
The remaining expenditures (US$69.6 million, of which Bank: US$15.0 million)
represent SOCAPALM and CAMDEV personnel and operating costs.
43.       The Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over about six years,
and would be applied as follows to eligible project expenditures: (i) for
SOCAPALM, 50 percent of total expenditures (US$14.7 million), parallel finan-
cing only; (ii) for CAMDEV, 36 percent for the field establishment costs
(US$8.2 million) and for roads, water supply and buildings (US$5.6 million),
and 63 percent for the heavy equipment and processing facilities (US$7.0
million) and for management team and scholarships (US$2.2 million), joint and
parallel financing; and (iii) 95 percent of the costs of the smallholder
programs at both SOCAPALM (US$3.7 million) and CAMDEV (US$3.6 million), no
cofinancing. US$5.0 million would be unallocated. Disbursement would be
fully documented except in respect of SOCAPALM's and CAMDEV's operating costs
and works by force account, where certified statements of expenditures would
be used. Supporting documentation would be retained for inspection by super-
vision missions.
Accounts and Auditing
44.       SOCAPALM's accounting system is satisfactory.  CAMDEV's, although
basically sound, is costly and time-consuming; it would be modernized in
line with the recommendations of the reorganization study. Both companies
would, as in the past, appoint independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
The audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Financial Analysis
45.       Although the proposed project includes important measures aimed
at strengthening the management and capital structure of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV,
the combination of heavy debt service on past borrowings and revised yield and
price projections as compared to Bank estimates during the 70s will result in
a satisfactory (yet tight) working capital position over the next few years,
particularly in the case of SOCAPALM. After 1988, as young trees mature and
new plantations start producing, the situation should improve considerably
and a boost in self-generated funds is expected, which would become available
to finance maintenance and replanting operations.



- 15 -
Markets
46.       All the rubber produced under the project (35,000 tons p.a. at
maturity) would be exported. The world market for natural and synthetic
rubber is expected to continue growing until the end of the century, though
at a lower rate than the recent 5.5 percent p.a. Prospects for natural rubber
look favorable, and real prices are expected to rise through the 1980s and
remain constant thereafter. Palm oil acounts for about 83 percent of domestic
edible oil consumption, so that project output is intended basically for
the local market. However, due to technical problems -- production response
to moisture and short storage life -- Cameroon experiences seasonal surpluses
of palm oil, and has traditionally exported about 22 percent of its total
edible oil production. Therefore, it is expected that part of the project
palm oil output (estimated at about 84,000 tons at maturity) will be sold
mostly in neighboring countries, particularly Nigeria, whose import require-
ments are growing rapidly. The export market-sharing arrangements developed
by the estates would be improved as part of the sub-sector strategy review,
and the project provides for additional capacity to alleviate the storage and
distribution situation. Finally, Government will exchange views regularly
with the Bank on a price setting formula which should ensure a fair remunera-
tion to producers of both rubber and palm oil (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
47.       The project would induce Government to make the institutional
and operational improvements needed to support the long-term viability of
its parastatal operations in the oil palm and rubber sub-sector. Increased
effifiency of the estates would not only enhance the profitability and
stability of SOCAPALM and CAMDEV, two major employers which provide a total
of about 27,000 jobs, but would also stimulate the interest of smallholders
in growing oil palm and rubber. The palm oil produced under the project, most
to be sold domestically, would satisfy local demand for this important staple,
which is expected to grow with increasing urbanization. Export of the remain-
ing oil palm output, as well as of all the rubber produced, would bring at
least US$79 million of foreign exchange p.a. in 1981 terms after 1987.
Finally, the project would ensure annual cash earnings of up to US$1,500 per
family for estate workers and up to about US$2,800 for some 1,500 smallholders
families, mostly from low-income groups.
48.       Because two-thirds of project costs are related to bringing young
plantations into full production, the economic rate of return on the proposed
consolidation project excluding sunk costs, is estimated at about 22.5 percent.
However, a more conservative computation, including all previous investments,
yielded an estimated average economic rate of return of about 12.5 percent.
A 10 percent increase in the real cost of labor (resulting, say, from petro-
leum-induced pressures on wages) would still leave the rate of return above
the opportunity cost of capital (about 12 percent).



- 16 -
49.       The main risk facing the project is that the Government strategy
of estate-basedl sub-sector development may eventually not be as effective as
expected due to continued labor and management problems, perhaps combined
with unfavorable price trends for oil palm and rubber. The project is designed
to counter those risks. The labor risk of SOCAPALM may be more serious, but
it is expected to be reduced through improvements in living conditions and
adoption of the recommendations of the socio-ethnological study. The manage-
ment weaknesses affecting CAMDEV would be addressed by a range of specific
actions (including recruitment of specialists to serve in line positions, and
implementation of a reorganization study) to complement decisions which have
already produced encouraging results since appraisal. A possible price
decline is expected to be offset by reductions in unit output costs, once
yields and mature areas increase and efficiency improves with the provision
of new facilities and better incentives. For the smallholder program, the
main risks are that inefficient extension work and inadequate producer prices
may result in poor returns at maturity, causing farmers to abandon plantings
and fail to repay credits. These risks would be reduced by the proposed
strengthening of CAMDEV's smallholder unit, improvements in collection and
marketing facilities, and introduction of a systematic exchange of views on
a producer price fixing formula (Section 4.04 of draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Cameroon
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, SOCAPALM, CAMDEV,
and FONADER, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the project are referred to in this report
and in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would
be: (i) signature and effectiveness of separate financing agreements between
Government and SOCAPALM and CAMDEV; (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement); (ii) payment by Government of the first tranche of agreed
capital increases for SOCAPALM and CAMDEV (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement); (iii) employment of the five consultants needed to strengthen
CAMDEV's management (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement); and (iv)
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to signature and effectiveness of the
CDC, CCCE and EIB loans (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1982



ANNEX I
-18 -                                                     Page 1 of 7
TABLE 3A
CAMEROOK-- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                        REFEUNCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
LAND AUiA (ThOUSAND so. 1(31.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTINATE)L
OUIAL            475.4                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE ISCOHE           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     156.9              1960 /Lb    1970 ib ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUXH OF SAHARLA  LATIN AMERICA & CARI8BEAN
UNP PER CAPITA (US4)                 140.0       230.0     560.OL0              794.2                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PE. CAPITA
(KILUGRAMS UF CUAL EQUIVALENT)      86.9       111.3     147.5                707.5                  1324.1
PUPULArIuN ANU VITAL sTAIISTICS
PUPULATION. MIL-YEAP (THOUSANDS)  5680.7      6781.3    8245.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 13.9        20.3      33.0                 27.7                    64.2
POPULATIUN PRWECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAg 200U (MILLIONS)                      13.8
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        37.0
YEAR STATIUNARY POPULATIUN IS REACHED                 2130
FuPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. LM.                       11.9        14.3      17.3                 55.0                    34.3
PER Sq. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     36.0        44.0      51.3                130.7                    94.5
PUPIULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.9        40.5      41.5                 46.0                    40.7
L5-64 YRS.                         57.0        55.4      54.4                 51.2                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.1         4.1       4.1                  2.8                     4.0
FOPULAIloN GUOWTH RATE (PERCENT)
ToTAL                              1.4         1.8       2.2                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                              4.9         5.6       7.6                  5.1                     3.7
CRUUE BLRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42.8        42.0      42.3                 46.9                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.8        22.0      18.7                 15.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         2.8       2.8                  3.2                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOUD ANU NUTRITION
NIUEX oF FooD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       101.0    110.0                  89.9                   108.3
PEl CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALUOIES (PERCENT UF
REQUIREMENTS)                   80.0        89.0      89.0                 92.3                   107.6
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER UAY)          43.0        51.0      51.0                 52.8                    65.8
oF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       11.0        13.0      15.0                 16.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HORTALITY RATE     41.0        31.3      25.4                 20.2                     7.6
HgALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2        42.5      46.9                 50.8                    64.1
INFANT MRITALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          172.0          *-     157.0                   *-                    70.9
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
PuPULATION)
TuTAL                               ..          ..      26.0                 27.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..          ..      35.0                 74.3                    79.7
RURAL                               *-                  22.0                 12.6                    43.9
ACCESS TU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF PUPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                    59.9
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..                   ..                    75.7
3tURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         48108.3     30139.0   16503.1              13844.1                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6151.0/d    2869.8   2228.1                2898.6                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            535.7/J    563.0      370.1               1028.4                   471.2
URBAN                            329.0/J    302.0      199.9                423.0                   558.0
RURAL                            579.0/J    722.0      606.5               3543.2
AUMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BEU           ..         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HOUSEHoLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       5.2
URBAN                               ..          .        5.1.
RURAL                              ..          ..        5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               * -*
ACCESS TU ELECTLLCITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                    6.7..             ..
URBAN                                                   22.6
RURAL                               ..         ..        0.5



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                                  Page 2 of 7
TABLE 3A
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE ACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEi
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  65.0        91.0      101.0                  73.7                     101.7
MALE                  87.0        105.0     112.0                   96.8                    103.0
FEMALE                43.0         77.0      91.0                   79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          8.0      16.0                  16.2                      35.3
MALE                   4.0         11.0      21.0                   25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0      11.0                   14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  23.0           23.0      25.0                    5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               *-        48.0       50.0                  36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                             ..        24.0       26.0                  23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         19.0         12.0        ..                     ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          4.9       7.7                  32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0        31.3       30.5                   69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                   8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.0          2.5       3.9                   20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1             ..       1.0                    0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2906.9      3299.2    3701.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    43.0        42.7       40.6                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0        85.0       83.0                  56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0         6.0        6.9                  17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.2         48.7       44.9                  37.2                     31.8
MALE                                  59.9         57.0      54.3                   47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               ,42.9         40.6      35.8                   27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        1.1                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGliEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      238.0                 381.2
RLURAL                                ..          ..      105.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                 334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URaAN                                 ..           ..      15.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      40.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Fiscal year July-Junw;  /d 1962, including ex-South Cameroon under British administration.
/e The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates which have been reflected in the 1981                                           Hay, 1981
World Bank Atlas are $670 Cat 1978-80 prices)
and 8444 thousand.



ANNEX I
-20 -                                                                         Page3 Jof 7
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
'oes     ,h., c o  ar -  so  fo   soregnealy lodged nice- e              Ia'aulote"I'l   end real, I  stoold a,le  be oared tianteysp  o  bentr
natonaly   orpacc:   n  oaaof  he  ackofancdarine  deici ita  od  oncpt,usd by diff.soastcootriee  cc cIIoisoiu  the data.Tedre.   oe
marfTh     c   aot                         I'll  ia  oeconr  anny of the eobjaon  co-ony and a,)Ico..nrry groP otih ro-ahen tior       -vrge Jc..ce ;harh.  ...Coutr  group
ofte.     bco    cnt   rop.fr'aIta  SurPIue Otil F.Porat'* to  alterI'Midle rco     North Arice end PIddle bar    teoe .                            e.a. e o--I  oogn
ucclccoltral  ff lonlee  .  C  the reernttop data the aVergesar  torlado  nccghted eril1leCic  ese-fo  .co  inictor cr0e:,t only stat11
Cocc cREA c,h .....d to.                                                                            oottprhsItlOd-tnl  sn.ad cora  - Popolattr  tnal
oel- Tote1 -c face area oorelg  ad ncs   n   oedonr.jhe   n   uetdrddb   he epecctor Cooher adhcttlt
- lecloaa of a gucalcore  area oed teeparnl   rp-erel                       nilable  i  publiC an1dptor deealudepceirdheptlso 
for cm7p., p.t.. ,  sr    aoo: _ o1irc-c  gadndnn   i   aln   95dn.hhlirincnea    fsiasrerhihar    eettl   cfe
by e   ea  arapyi a.  ra..blietmant I.Proriding principally csa
lop pic  Ay    Itts) - CNP par cap itt serotteaentoren  eak               prce. c-                  dial tare ar  not iItladed.    rlhsias   ocs,Ioushat
col1ced hbyas  cotsritstlo   as World tank Atle I17-9iea                       90.adeonlcmr  tar  srmaatt-  9r-ffd b                                     hsna h      ocby a
1970. and 1979 dan.-                                                                              meica  .aeI_tn,vir    nidnf,ac)oioh otte  tnptet  oc
deion .an  povidsI a limted rng   f naica  fotitea    PrF.           ei.
Siitf   It(PTiNIlFi Pi  CA0O   nI alcneApit  ofteaoa   nryaa                                    italprpee  ra  hoaPinale ieciade Wibe prinaipal/ganralhoptnl
ftriotny  hr, kilores  of o-l  qivletpet -cpine; 1960. 1970, and 1979                             osnes       PanIieied hoepinale are. ioadd    di Ats  tonal.
data.                                                                                           adisona. te  Paritna1 led -              dItlnahtr  fadaaion   noI on  d isohargee
f ran hnepinnie dtnided by the  -b-r of bde..
POPULATION AN.D V11A. SlATISTICS
ntel  orlaio.   id-Yea- cooo              af-i   f July 1; 1960. 1970, ned 1979               H0USING
dilfteeedaiilaao  oho-rt   a affeo  ccparh   ny  f dte                                          sai  their t  seals        hoarder  in loote  nay crny no  bn inclotd"t
argoonne;160. 197O, oud 1979 dana.th :houehc  fc   cticcl  opAse
PrrleCni P. parseer  for enroa1y rensa teprien of threec leel ee-                              tCcopind parts
to'ite a ennyeCit   troignr   orr  epri  iajcs                                           Acser  flcn to _n lrr t of derelita.             -toa,uba,ad.on 
naner  for  ertulto rae elo hav  rhre   enea taIPigdcien                         f  oa,oht  v  rura  dn-linngeresyrrnioly
fertility ac-odnrg ti IVnte levelIand pac  f.asly jl-uing perorane
nvd fetlt   rnsfrvoeto   upss                                                               d~o-td t-nrollenn  tatnos
the b,hirt  - rnn   teq1 to the denhrate  and also theaertcIar I e-                             erlenofa geathepinaylee  as prneges of r'capni-
-J.coeneon.  'hi. i. achievd otly. afte  fertltyeneor  at                                    picy  ooo-g  ppltin;to ly in-Iodeechildren aged b-Il
the reylosen  lre    ovit tatM  rtdution rats., ot ec   eee  o                                  year  ht adpuetnd for differs..tIVAnthe  fprliaryedn-iaio;fo
of _ ...o.re ..c. tree. asa tir   Ir   _toor    caatnsr    sccncr.iaeih onios- leoctnvenolet-p1edlO ecn
eTteatd  oc the ta        f the pr-eutd oPrc.,tOeo   h  rrlno                                   snete    'opI.  r   eo   ona:r:trtc                   .aho I0e
Is che yevr 2OIL. av  the reta of dsolcns if derrils prun    no re.ltebcodory nohool -  onl ale  and female - loaputed as chre  sodory
ei   ba Nroren td.il  Isio y  f-11to-7 yhre  f a 5;..nr_ynsnca  oorce ae gner lly
Per as. km. - MId-yea  p             pulncncreoecimtr (lIC  h-otare  Iof                        coanon....l.en   Iceet of eaiontr)- lctoa   vnttln
toalcoa;I9I          197C snd 1979 dena.                                                        huluara-icl               VIniatil. or other prnrs c1hubapreeioap
Pe  en. am  ori-oltora I au  - Coepurd  e above for agricoltural lard                            enl   r  sOpnten  of eccondaryCtonn.
only; CYt6i . 170 ann  9)79 oIo ui-rna   ai       rar.ad  eodr      oa   tdnenidi
Iouaco  onedt Ocutots loec..ac  - Cboldrcu  (0-li pears).orc-ge(-                                  pri-ey  n  seodrylvl  diodsd hytttr  o   erhr  t  h
ho peers), a 0 retired 6h  yearsand oe)a  percen-gee of dO-rear  opuP-                      o    'rsPriglne
la_ter  1960. Io.   d 1.979 dn.allieayrt rcetI-tereautscht. to rod an    its)
PorulatlnnGlrontt rte (--eti- 0        tl -. intca  gro.nh rate  of Itona  aid-                     Iepreng    f tonal adul oplt Io   ged 15 years and ov.ee.
perpp    'Iir Vot15-l  190-1,ed 1970-79.
Ponatc  Iot  toeorcn                 ostn               -,hm.   goeoctee of ulb.n coP-        conooPttiOc
Ilet ov  for 1900-ic, 1900-70, aa1970-79.                                                    Pa...enaen Cars(P. Oth ...o.n.                   ... ....eeaer  as  oprt    eo
linde tlrtt Oats liar ctoueato) - Oaaal  inemIth. par thousand of aid-portas..ntg,e  than cL,t   esn;icue   slaoe   ere   n
opulattoc; 196O. 1970, -rd 199dt.elieny  cettlse.
Crudelan  tae   e          iooeo)  --'Iua  aar     pe  tosad  of el-ea                           ain  eoin              h.,tn ..tusr   porltot-All typee of  oclefin r.dc.
popoacin;  Op,107, acd 1079 deca.                                                        treceni    eeriptic  mr nuc,1Iasedo   co ia                           Iflde   m
Irsadrrdcto   In-rns.sme   f dui a  vea  nl    a  inliene   reevr   nCnnIesad is yer  ah-n  Egtrinofadio
hcar noma  r-po-du-tiv- periodifhee sIF         t      ree  ag-specifto  far-                   casne   nefet;dt  for ret  er  cay too he io.psrable sands
iliry  .....; usually fitspee  averges codin  in 1960, 1970, and 1979.                          mAst c_utoeethlihedlcnig
yamlrPlnoooocecnr.   atsiitccaada  -canul  omte  o  scenh.                            fReec.r   nerI tho...nd ppotnlC'te-  rV oio    for broadcasCt.n
Foetlr PIanoiri-lUeere  'perc-s  of armed   nn  -erntgof  -rcid                                   tn cone tris  and iv  areae  regirranion.f  PtensIntfo
all nrIedot0Ossae                  0.cltino  "dely aecray  Intrnetvesetper , define                                                                               c ps iodca
d                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uiiaindntdpiatot   ardn    eea  er.I   scniee
mono now fThCtniniot                                       00 be 'daily  Of It aposace so leset door~~~~~~~~~~~~'
is ot calendar year basis.   Cad0ns   caner pniear        ..da So. sagarc.n.           and mabils  nte
inctad of sugar)  tich are odihl  end contain ounrins(..cfeed
re   r  si: ce)    ggeeePro dictta  of aeon, countryis base  on                            LABOR Pair
toni_ _laeAna produet pIce1 neights;, 1961-61, 1970, ad 1979 data                            Tona  Lahor force (,hcc....a  - Scoems.-aly soni-s pcreons. 1idtludc
Per oaota er,pl  of  alorie  (cercent of _eorman)- Ceme,td fro                          ame  forces no d unemployed buseld    iaave,stdn.ec,
oorgtqioal-o  of Cet food euPplleaar-11sbla  In Cranny per Ipa piacvrn    nuaino   l  ge                                      AOfnnoci   si              onre    f
pendy.  cAvilable supplies compise comneic prodonnion. L.Po---  lenoieyrb;190 1 97   n  1.979data
e-P"r"    n  oaosinso             vafopie   old  sct  ed, asd,rsl    etni - I.sa   lehr frc  as  erena                                               i or tona Iaofre
pcanttesoedin  omaprcesing  ad losses indeetain  Require-                           kauonr    s           I-Labor fonts in dering  forery. huntine and
mavn  ese es imred  y P0 hbsn on physiological ten   fo     -oma   ci                  fcatnhi se pecnne f rtallae  fot;1 ,17  and 197  dne
and e   ditlbaino.ouato,adalwnIIVecn   n   assa                                               e   lcriiy    aa   n                            Ia.ptets   f tnl Isa  foocs; 1960.
tou5s1hold leve; "iyt-6t  1970, ant 19I dets.                                                 :'IO end I97 ae
Per onoihasyl  o   rni  (arasa ost dat) - Pronsin eoo-ts  of per tapit.                      Panonto    aefscet-tnl   ae   n  tel-a                              tiaieo
Oct supply of ftod per dary.  Oat snyply of fond is osfined  ashv. c-5R-                     activity p        e Ieptda  total  male, and feae  eorfroo
qocease  nr  ll  rotis II   slihdby 090k poide for cleon                               p      Iooee   fnri   aean    l            oosino    lage  rsetively;
alloeoc  of  0 game  f cral  ronin pr dy aS20  ressof  nima  an                 1960, 1970, sod  9199 dana   The5 nt. based. or  10    peticipattot rtes
pole.protet, o  strIt 10sneesshoud Yeena   roen.hs  acasd-                         cflicoicag-e             t Iotr   f the oo.-ei dCt .,andion. ties tred
orearloe  tha  the. of 75 gret  of total prre.in and 023 gree   f                          few estimate.ar  fro   ntina  eo0ere..
autaIpotc   55enaerg  fornb  mar10  prpse y P0 In the Third                               E.....siC  neen  lanlo -  ai f poprlanion unde  15 end 60 and oVer
World fod Sinvy;196165, 1970 and 197dna.oth                                                     boalaoCfrs
Pe   alt  ootinsol  fro    nmlad   te-eti   Ipuyy.iyf food de-
Ciltd reese 1-cfItnflinv R-t  (pertotedC                A-;-,t deat.hs 'per choan  L.          Perenag  ofPivae C.as  (bth in cab havd kied) - Roeined hp liohese
age grup 1-  pare  to cIdrn i  thqis og9  geso; fo   seer-enclpien coon-                1                     oeosn.ricna10prtee, pooreat 20 percent, ad poorest 40 pso-tn
tIes data derived fcom lIfe.ais;16.1970 andI99data                                              of houtaho1da.
Life iascnemarst limi  iv.e. A7 .. Orrg. ome f years of life remaWin                     The fol1iomig estimates an. ver  aypr...Iane sesos   hpovertylels
an bIrth;  90.     90aa17  dana.                                                                cod chruid he  -tetrpatcdnith con..tderthla   sni
oaoseto  ar  Otar(rncnt  f  orulaloo-tin,   ane,  s  rra  -fit-          anitio-ally adequate dis, pla   ... eesra  con-food tqles eis oat
venereuply  locladastreatedsurfac  natnh  or  ntrate  hu- tnosalm d                hEciand heisni- Prnnrv Iecoe L.soeI (0S$ yen cs2ital - -rha  ad rurl1
otter och as ten fromproteced boreolee, srints,  nd santar    elo                oa  reltt  poetylcose isre  is one-thind of aveag  pecpita
pec htaesoftoi  respect.Ie popltoa    nocrnraapbi                                      yroa    os   fthe cotanr.  oman. levelIs leie    is  h   o
IIIcerdnaho   itvhit reaonble  ro  of tha Vhones   Inrrlaea.eiee   Poelatontel                                              ....or   .Irt linctg  Levl rb rrnt--ura
do t  toa.. to  pnndelseprI            o epart of the day In fencblng Ide                       p-In.
hestl        I"!re  needs.
and- ner-atrh   serhrt  pts  or thei usa of pIn Prve   n   tmnOooi  ulyst  and S                                                                         rvlenntnes D  sparriI
cin    ulified tlye a sed III  IIIoo  atoissylvl
Ponlconnr   rains Person - Popoloios. divided by n,cis  o f p-enltogd
tal  sod fsmal  arednans  -ara, prannical -our..s,.end seisnatnic.



- 21 -
Population:             8.4 million  (mid-1980)                                  ANNEX  I
GNP  per capita:   US$668  (1980) b /                                            D'a-e 4 of 7 nages
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INLICATORS(1) /a
--     ___ __ -_-_-_-__    __       _-_-_-__-_            _  _____-_____-_-_-__                       _           _   _
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976       1977      1978      1?79       130
--            -    -      -     -     --          -    -    -    -       -----------------------------------------------------
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(IN CURRENT CFAF BILLIONS)
GDP at Market Prices /b              355.9     400.5      492.6     569.7     657.3      789.9     945.8   1.135.4   1,356.2
Gross Domestic Savings                45.3      59.6      109.8      85.9     101.2      162.7     197.1     221.0      281.7
Gross National Savings                36.6      50.0       94,4      69.7      83.6      146.4     166.2      188.7     257.5
Current Account Balance              -24.0     -17.8        0.3     -30.8     -27.1      -23.4     -11.1     -58.0      -22,3
Exports of Goods and NFS              80.9      90.6      132.6     138.9      156.8     202.6     296.0      314.8     384.2
Imports of Goods and NFS             -98.5    -101.7    -118.4    -156.4    -173.4    -218.8    -295.9    -355.6    -383.9
(As % of GDP at Market Price)
___ _____ __________________
GDP at Market Prices                 100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0
Gross Domestic Savings                12.7      14.9       22.3      15.1      15.4       20.6      20.8      19.5       20.3
Gross National Savings                10.3      12.5       19.2      12.2      12.7       18.5    '17.6        16.6      19.0
Current Account Balance               -6.8      -4.5        0.1      -5.4      -4.1       -3.0      -1.2      -5.1       -1.6
Exports of Goods and NFS              22.7      22.6       26.9      24.4      23.8       25.7      31.3      27.7       28.3
Imports of Goods and NFS             -27.7     -25.4     -24.0      -27.5     -26.4     -27.7      -31.3     -31.3      -28,3
(Annual Real Rates of Growth)
_________ ___________________
GDP at Market Prices                   2.6       5.5       1i.1      -1.7       5.0        8.0       7.3        8.5       3.5
GROSS VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
(In Current CFAF Millions)
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc       111.7     126.7      154.7     193.7     220.8      259.7     297.7     359.2      404.4
Mining                                 0.8       1.2        1.8       2.3       2.1        3.2       7.3      23.2       52.6
Manufacturing                         38.3      40.4       45.6      56.2      67.5       74.7      89.4     101.9      123.0
Construction                          13.7      15.9       19.4      21.6      28.6       42.2      46,8      68.0       84.4
Electricity, Gasy Water                4.8       4.8        5.3       5.7       6.7       10.1      11.7      14.3       16.2
Transport and Communications          26.4      31.9       40.1      49.3      55.1       57.7      65.9      77.6       90.0
Trade                                 77.3      81.0       88.1      93.9     107.1      126.9     159.7     183.4      202.3
Public Administration                 32.6      33.0       34,4      43.6      45.1       56.2      67.7      90.4      108.2
Other Services                        37.6      51,9       84.7      81.0      87.0      111.6     139.2     152.6      204.4
Import Duties                         12.7      13.7       18.5      22.4      32.9       43.1      54.6      61.4       68.1
(As X of Total)
_________ ___
Agriculture incl.Livestock etc        31.4      31.6       31.4      34.0      33.6       32.9      31.5      31.6       29.8
Mining                                 0.2       0.3        0.4       0.4       0.3        0.4       0.8       2.0        3.9
Manufacturing                         10.8      10.1       9.3        9.9      10.3       9.5        9.5       9.0        9,1
Construction                           3.8       4.0       3.9        3.8       4.4        5.3       4.9       6.0        6.2
Electricity, Gas and Water             1.3       1.2        1.1       1.0       1.0        1.3       1.2       1.3        1.2
Transport and Comsunications           7.4       8.0        8.1       8.7       8.4        7.3       7.0       6.8        6.6
Trade                                 21.7      20.2       17.9      16.5      16.3       16.1      16.9      16.2       14.9
Public Adainistration                  9.2       8.2       7.0        7.7       6.9        7.1       7.2       8.0        8.0
Other Services                        10.6      13.0       17.2      14.2      13.2       14.1      14.7      13.4       15.1
Import Duties                          3.6       3.4       3.8        3.9       5.0       5.5        5.8       5.4        5.0
US $1,00= CFAF                       265.0     241.0     230.1      222.4     225.1     248.0      239.0     216.7      209.2
(Period Average)
SOURCE:Data supplied bs the Camerocnian authorities with reclassification bv Staff.
/a  Fiscal Year (JulY 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown irn the table.
/b Unrevised
WEST AFRICA CP2B
4/20/82



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7 pages
Population:             .8.4 million  (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$668 (1980) c/
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(2)
1973      1974       1975      1976       1977       1978      1979       1980
GOVERNMENT FINANCE SUMMARY /a
(In CFAF Millions)
_____________________________
Current Receipts                         59,308    67,895    83,370    98,763   120,901   162,331   200,761   218,865
Current Expenditure                      50,590    58,600    70,B98    78,872    95,132   118,902   128,749   142,347
Current Surplus with adjustments          B,718      9,295    12,472    19,891    25,769    43,736    57,954    76,519
Capital Expenditure                      12,951    14,293    18,929    26,246    32,343    45,275    53,846    58,481
External Assistance (Net)                   900        481      -993    -2y30'    12,022       2,997    -5,774    17,227
(As Percentale of GDP)
_ ______________ ____
Current Receipts                           14.8       13.8      14.4       15.0       15.3      17.2       17.7       16.1
Current Expenditure                        12.6       11.9      12.2       12.0       12.0      12 .6      11.3       10.'
Current Surplus (or deficit)                2.2        1.9       2.2        3.0        3.3       4.6        5.1        5 6
Capital Expenditure                         3.2        2.9       3.3        4.0        4.1       4.8        4.7        4,3
External Assistance (net)                   0.2        0,1      -0,2       -0.4        I.S       0.3       -0.5        1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /a
(In CFAF Millions-end Period)
Money and Quasi-monev                    59,530    78,550    94,720   117,780   155,420   194,808   221,831   288,391
Band Credit to Government                 3,470      3,860     5,510      6,551     9,853    14,149    16,731    21Y149
Bank Credit to the Economs               60,760    78,930   101,510   119,970   169,740   236,502   297,918   361,647
Percentases or Index Numbers
Money I Quasi-moneY as X of GUP /b         14.9       15.9     16.3       17.9       19.7      20.6       19.5       21.3
Yaounde Consumer Price Index /a
(1970=100)                124.8     143.3      168.5      185.0     206.8      237.4      259.1     279.1
Annual Percentage Changes in'
Yaounde Consuser Price Index                7.3       14.8      17.6        9.8       11.8      14.8        ?.1       7.7
Bank Credit to Governsent                   0.0       11.2      42,7       18.9      50.4       43.6       18.2      26.4
Bank Credit to the Economy                  0,0       29.9      28,6       18.2      41.5       39,3       26*0      21.4
SOURCE:Data supplied bv Caneroonian Authorities with Bank Staff estimates and
reclassification.
/a Fiscal Year (Ju1Y 1-June 30) is used. Year indicates the end sear for each
fiscal sear.
/b GUP is for Fiscal Year.
/c Unrevised.
West Africa CP2B
4/20/82



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7 pages
Population:               8,4 million (mid-1980)
GNP  per  capita:    US$668  (1980)  a/
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATORS(3)
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(IN MILLIONS CFAF)
E'.orts of Goods and NFS                      80,915    90,606   132S563   138,946   156i750   202,635   296,007   314,817   410,764
Imports of Goods and NFS                     -98,464  -101,687  -118,440  -156,383  -173,350  -218,755  -295y937  -355,569  -427i;73
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                   -17,550   -11,080    14i123   -17,437   -16,600   -16t120                70   -40,753   -16409
Interest Pavments (net)                       -1,905    -2,279    -5,835    -8,572   -10*196    -9,'292   -12,819   -18,584   -21,824
Workers' Remittances                              123        165        607      2,160      1,993      2,557       3i254      4,675      4,665
Other Factor Pavments (net)                   -6,919    -7,498   -10,120    -9,766    -9,374    -9,266    -6Y510    -6,366    -7,010
Net Tr3nsfers                                   2,219      2,857      1,503      2,848      7,103      8,761       4,858      3,011        692
Balance of Current Account                   -24,032   -17*836          277   -30,766   -27,074   -23,*360   -11*148   -58,017   -39YS35
Net Direct Foreign Investment                  2,604    -1,804        3,487      5,443      5y709      1,503      3s091       9,755    21,261
Total Net Medium and Long-
Term Borrowing                              13,657    219552       9,188    13,978    28,613    32,016    24,773    35,928    58,634
:Disbursements                           16,351    25,071      13,749    207988    36,458    43,093    51,575    58,180    80,239
:'Aortization                            -21694    -3,519    -4,561    -7,010    -7,845   -11,078   -26t802   -22*252   -21*604
Trade Credit (net)                               -706        -37      2,343      3,768      2,290    -3,532       2,991         610      3,006
Other Short Term Capital                        1,218        -54    -40751    -4,984    -1,200    -2,287    -2,789   -11,225   -10,070
Other Capital n.e.i.                             -494    -1,176       2,772    -30755    -5,677    -3,365    -1,828            -215       -443
Gross Official International Reserves         12,578    11,196    20,522    11,116    11,706    13,798    25f358    18,235    407322
Net Foreign Assets                            10,400       9,970    18,760       8,110      6,680       -160      14,890    -9,300    22W770
US $1.00= CFAF  (Period Average)              265.0      241.0       230.1      222.4      225.1      248.0      239.0       216.7      209.2
SDR 1.00= CFAF  (Period Average)              273.8      265.5       289.2      260.2      275.9      286.8      282.5       277.6      272.3
a/ Unrevised.
SOURCE:Data suppied bs the Cameroonian authorities with Bank Staff reclassification
and estimates. Fiscal Year (JulY 1- June 30) is used with End Year shown in
the table.
West Africa CP2B
4/20/82



-24-                         ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7 pages
Population:       8.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$668 (1980) A/
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC INDICATCRS (4)
(millions US$ at current prices)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT b/
Gross disbursements
Official grants                                   20       24       23       11       18      n.a.
Concessional loans                                45       55      122      133      174      128
DAC                                             17       32       40       53       83       70
OPEC                                             6        3       13        6       20       24
IDA                                             16       18       21       19       20       19
Other                                            6        2       48       55       51       15
Non-concessional loans                            81      123      183      174      348      442
Official export credits                          1        9       19       12       75       82
IBRD                                            21        8       15       37      30       28
Other multilateral                               4        1        3       21       10       18
Private                                         55      105      146      104     232      314
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                   372      514      823    1133    1632    2002
Official                                       293      346      508      722    1014    1186
of which: IBRD                                50       58       72      102     130      152
IDA                               50      68       88      108      127      146
Private                                         79      168      315      411     618      816
Undisbursed debt                                 321      497      543      786    1071      607
Debt Service
Total service payments                            36       39       57      103      132      182
Interest                                        15       19       28       42      60      103
Payments as 7. of exports                          5.6      5.6      6.9      8.3      9.1      9.3
Average interest rate on new loans (7.)              4.5      6.3      5.6      6.8      9.2      6.2
Official                                           2.5      3.9      4.6      4.3      6.4      4.9
Private                                            9.2      7.6      7.5    10.3    12.5    16.3
Average maturity of new loans (years)               25.3    17.0    17.6    21.5    16.2    24.0
Official                                          32.0    32.5    23.0    28.9    21.0    26.6
Private                                           10.0      9.0      6.9    11.1    10.6        8.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                     77.0
Maturities due within 10 years                                   136.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                     7.3
*/ Unrevised.
b/ End-of-period figures are shown.
West Africa CP2B
4/20/82



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                        Bank    IDA/4  Undisbursed
Eleven Credits and nine Loans have been fully             106.84   117.4         -
disbursed
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                              9.0       2.14
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                           6.5                 0.51
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                    3.0       0.33
1245T-CM  1976  Cameroon    Education III                  17.0                 7.22
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                      4.5      1.64
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                    7.0       3.47
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    SOCAPALM II                     7.0                0.84
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    SOCAPALM II                    18.0                 2.15
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                              6.5      1.45
1494-CM   1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                    4.6                 4.60
1508-CM   1977  Cameroon    CAMDEV II                      15.0                2.52
776-CM    1978  Cameroon    Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                          8.5       3.07
784-CM    1978  Cameroon    Western Highlands
Rural Development                   13.0       6.51
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    SEMRY Rice II                  14.5                0.88
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Highway III                    16.5                0.23
926-CM    1979  Cameroon    Highway IV                              10.0       4.50
1723-CM   1979  Cameroon    Highway IV                     38.0               38.00
936-CM    1979  Cameroon    Railway IV                              20.0        7.91
1734-CM   1979  Regifercam  Railway IV                     27.0               25.17
1753-CM   1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply           21.0                20.83
975-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                              15.0       5.27
1791-CM   1980  Cameroon    Hevecam II                     16.5               16.50
1010-CM   1980  Cameroon    Livestock II                            16.0      14.57
1919-CM   1981  Cameroon    Northern Province Rural
Development               25.0                25.00
1920-CM/l 1981  Cameroon    Small- and Medium-Scale
Enterprises II            15.0                15.00
1075-CM   1981  Cameroon    Northern Province
Rural Development                   12.5      12.2
1168-CM   1981  Cameroon    Technical Coopera-
tion II                             10.0      10.0
2073-CM/2 1981  Cameroon    Postal Telecommunication
Technical Assistance       7.50                7.50
2092-CM/3 1981  Cameroon    Forestry                      17.00               17.00
TOTAL                                   372.94   252.40   257.01
of which has been repaid               20.00      6.15
TOTAL now outstanding                   352.94   246.25
Amount sold                    7.72
of which has been repaid   7.72          -         -
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /4                            352.94   246.25
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                       183.95    73.06   257.01
/1   Signed on September 30, 1981, but not yet effective.
/2   Signed on March 18, 1982, but not yet effective.
/3   Approved but not yet signed.
4   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1982)
Investment Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor       Type of Business       Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA          Shoe Factory             -       0.38      0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation          -       0.81      0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation          -       0.41      0.41
452-CM       1979    ALUCAM       Non-ferrous metal    7.00        0.93      7.93
551-CM       1981    SCM          Food and Food Pro-
cessing              1.12      0.20      1.32
578-CM      1981    SOCAVER       Glass Bottle Factory 1.70        0.18     1.88
579-CM      1981    SAFACAM III Rubber Plantation          -       0.25     0.25
Total gross commitments                                  9.82      3.16    12.98
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                -       0.26     0.26
Total commitments now held by IFC                        9.82      2.90    12.72
Total undisbursed                                        1.70      0.25      1.97
C.   Status of Projects in Execution (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Cr. No. 320    Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation. The adult
vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala, recently transferred from the
Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labor, started training in March
1982. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Loan No. 1734  Fourth Railway Project:  US$27 million Loan of
Cr. No. 936    August 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 22, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; and US$20 million Credit of
same date; Effectiveness Date: January 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts have been awarded except for the maintenance facili-
ties near Yaounde and some modifications in the extensions in the workshop.
The civil works for the new Douala station have progressed enough to expect
completion in December, 1982. Detailed engineering studies for the new
maintenance depots in Yaounde are behind schedule and the reports are expected
by June, 1982. Contracts for Phase I of civil works in workshops and the
depots have just been awarded. Procurement of equipment and materials is 75
percent completed. Remodelling the training school is in progress; training
equipment is under procurement. Due to the excessive staffing and investments,
the financial situation of the Regie continues to be serious, but traffic is
increasing at 12 percent p.a. and this gives hope of some recovery in FY83.
Government established a special Commission to review and make recommendations
for improving the financial situation. Bank mission is expected to meet the
Government and discuss the Commission's report in June 1982. Staff reduction
and adequate tariff adjustments will have to be emphasized in this meeting.
Though at present, the financial situation is disturbing, there are signs that
with increased traffic and reforms in Government's policies, Regifercam can
become a commercially viable entity within a few years.
Loan No. 1245-T-CM Third Education Project: US$17 million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Closing Date is about two years behind schedule primarily due
to weak management and problems in dealing with a 34 percent cost overrun
(US$8.4 million) in civil works. The Government has made provision in its
FY82 and FY83 budgets to cover part of this cost overrun. Construction work
is completed or underway at 10 out of 12 project institutions. Bids for the
two remaining institutions have been evaluated and construction should start
soon. Equipment has been delivered to a secondary technical school and most
bids have been evaluated for other institutions. A secondary technical school
transferred from the previous project is the only one out of 12 project
institutions in operation and the other institutions are expected to be
operational by December 1982 and the remaining one by October 1983. In view
of the progress of project implementation, the Closing Date has been postponed
by one year and a detailed schedule for project implementation and reorganiza-
tion of the project unit has been agreed with the Government. However, we are
closely monitoring the main project implementation issues, and, unless these
issues are satisfactorily resolved, the project is expected to be closed by
December 31, 1982. Discussion has been undertaken about a new design for a
possible fourth project which has been suspended until implementation progress
of the third project has been made.



2-                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Cr. No. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project's funds have been fully committed and most pre-investment
studies financed by it--largely in agriculture, transport and planning--have
been completed. Long-term advisory consultants are continuing to assist
Cameroonian staff to improve project generation and supervision capacity,
which is being supplemented by on-the-job training and formal training courses.
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Project's organization and progress continues to accelerate
and to consolidate; construction standards of all but one sub-project are
good, as are their planning, budgeting and accounting. It is expected that
with the available funds about 60 percent of overall SAR objectives will
be achieved at completion. In May 1982 the SEDA - Halcrow - ULG (Joint
Cameroonian/British venture) preparation report for a possible Phase II will
be available and Government has asked the Bank to appraise the second phase.
However, implementation has been slow, and the closing date shall have to be
extended for an additional year to make full use of the remaining funds,
estimated at US$1.6 million.
Ln. No. 1391-T Second SOCAPALM Project: US$18 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1392   US$7 million Third Window Loan of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings under the project continue to be satisfactory though
implementation lags slightly behind schedule. Due to labor unrest, lower
than forecasted yields and processing difficulties, production from earlier
plantings falls short of the target by about 25 percent. The company's
financial management has been strengthened by the appointment of an internal
auditor and the financial situation has improved. The net positive cash
balance as of June 30, 1981, of CFAF 230 million (US$0.9 million) however, was
insufficient to cover operating expenditures and a further capital increase of
some CFAF 2.00 billion (US$7.4 million) will be required under the Oil palm!
rubber Consolidation Project.
Cr. No. 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494   US$6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the Feeder Roads Project started in 1978. The
project includes creation of the Central Feeder Roads Unit within Directorate
of Highways and a four-year construction program for 2,200 km of feeder roads.
Project implementation is behind schedule because the organization in charge
is understaffed and because of shortage of local funds. The Government is to
submit for Bank approval a modified program for project execution reflecting
considerable feeder road construction cost increases.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 763    Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512   of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5 million Loan
of February 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 14, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
A satisfactory solution to the problems of dike erosion and piping
has been found, and no new erosion or piping has occurred in a test zone
that was protected. Permanent dike protection is now proceeding. Yields are
now approaching appraisal estimates. Further irrigation works have been
suspended until existing land is fully used. Thus funds from the original
financial envelope appear to be sufficient to complete dike protection. The
modest supplemental financing that is needed to complete the project would
be provided by Government. The program of resettlement of farmers from
neighboring, over-populated zones is proceeding at a rate consistent with
SEMRY's ability to provide adequately serviced townsites near paddy fields.
Ln. No. 1508   Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Although estate planting programs continue on target, the past
two fiscal year 1979/80, 1980/81, showed substantial cost overruns. Owing
to this high planting/production costs and lower than forecasted yields per
hectare. CAMDEV's overall financial position remains precarious. The com-
pany's management effectiveness was seriously impeded by difficulties arising
out of internal management conflicts.  Government is aware of the company's
problems and permanent solutions will be implemented under the proposed oil
palm/rubber Crop Consolidation Project (SOCAPALM/CAMDEV). These measures
include inter alia a reorganization of CAMDEV's management structure and
a capital increase of some CFAF 6.0 billion (US$22.2 million).
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road, the last section of the
Trans-Cameroon rail and road route, was satisfactorily completed in 1979.
Technical assistance to the Ministry of Transportation helped to carry out
a comprehensive origin-destination survey with the final phase having been
completed in mid 1981. Results of the origin-destination survey are expected
to be available shortly. A transport advisor financed under the Project,
is helping the Ministry of Planning evaluate and coordinate the transport
component of the Fifth Development Plan and will finish his term in mid 1982.
A US$5.6 million cost overrun, mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations, has
been covered by the Government.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is achieving its objectives and technical and financial
management is good. Although physical execution was lagging behind appraisal
schedules, owing to organizational problems encountered during the first
project year, improvements have been made in all components with corresponding
increases in procurement and disbursement rates. Government's contributions
to project financing continue to be regular, and liquidity problems due to
delays in preparation of withdrawal applications have been partly rectified.
Government has requested Bank group assistance for a follow-up project extending
coverage to the entire Western Province. Government with FAO/CP completed the
preparation report in January 1982 and an appraisal mission is presently in
the field.
Ln. No. 776    ZAPI East Integrated Rural Development Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness
Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress. Despite
budgetary constraints, physical implementation of most components approached
targeted levels for 1980/81. Crop production, processing, disease control,
research and inland fisheries components are developing well. Reorganization
of extension, credit and distribution services and ZAPI's management structure
is proceeding. ZAPI's financial situation shows marked improvement. As a
result of internal management reforms and a Government-authorized subsidy of
US$2.1 million, ZAPI should be able to liquidate its long-standing deficit and
resume program expansion in 1981/82. At midterm approximately 50 percent of
the IDA credit has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln. No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises training of staff and workers for road mainte-
nance, maintenance of about 17,000 km of roads and rehabilitation of 1,700 km
through force account and domestic contractors, technical assistance to the
domestic construction industry, two permanent weighing stations, and pre-
investment studies for the proposed project and forestry evacuation roads.
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project has started after initial diffi-
culties with recruiting consultants, equipment procurements, setting up the
training brigade and the training center. The Bank group is considering,
together with other financing agencies, the financing of the Edea-Yaounde
section of the Douala-Yaounde road under a proposed Fifth Highway Project.
Negotiations were completed in March 1982 for this proposed project.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Cr. No. 975    Second HEVECAM Project:  US$15 million Credit of April 18, 1980;
Ln. No. 1791   Date:  September 16, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985;
and US$16.5 million Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date:
September 16, 1980; Closing Date: January 30, 1985.
The project took off well; the area planted in PY1, 2,390 ha
exceeded SAR target by 11 percent, and as of December 31, 1981 out of 2,200 ha
for PY2 already 1,950 ha were planted. No problems are expected to complete
the 250 ha remaining. Expenditures during both project years were well
controlled and minor accounting problems sorted out. Disbursement is in line
with SAR estimates and HEVECAM's financial situation is sound. The management
team works harmoniously with their national colleagues. In mid-1981, the
estate was plagued by some labor unrest which, however, were settled without
major problems.
Ln. No. 1753   Second Water Supply Project:  US$21 million Loan of December 11,
1979; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The aims of the project are to improve and extend water supply
systems in 13 secondary centers and two major cities, Douala and Yaounde; lay
the groundwork for organizing urban development planning for Douala and
Yaounde; initiate a pilot public health educational project; and strengthen
the organization of the water supply sector. Engineering studies and bidding
documents have been prepared and the procurement process is underway.
Cr. No. 1010   Second Livestock Development Project:  US$16 million Credit of
June 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This credit has recently become effective. The project will support
Cameroon's Livestock development through three major production components: a
diversified credit program, continued eradication of tsetse flies from the
grazing area of the Adamaoua Plateau, and a strengthening of veterinary field
services. It will also support formal and informal training, and institutional
reforms in aid of the productive components. Initial progress has been slow,
due to difficulties in recruiting the necessary expatriate specialists.
Ln. No. 1919   Northern Province Rural Development Project:  US$25 million
Cr. No. 1075   Loan of January 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  June 1, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986; and US$12.5 million Credit
of same date; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Since effectiveness on June 1, 1981, this project has achieved
remarkable results. Despite lower than normal rainfall during 1981, seed
cotton production with 95 percent of the buying campaign completed, is
expected to reach 47,000 tons or about 85 percent of the SAR target of
56,000 tons for PYI. Food crop production during the first year was
negligible, for 1982/83, however, the project estimates to plant about



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
1,200 ha and 250 ha, respectively, of improved maize and groundnuts. The
project accounts are kept by computer and the system developed permits the
Financial Controller monthly balances and comparison with annual budgets for
each project component. Moreover, reimbursement applications are produced on
a monthly basis by means of a simple program established by the project's
Financial Controller. Key local personnel and expatriates have largely been
recruited.
Cr. No. 1168   Second Technical Cooperation Project:  US$10 million
Credit of November 5, 1981;
Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project aims at improving Government capacity to execute the
Fifth Development Plan. It is expected to strengthen existing national
planning and external debt management systems, to help define better policies
and investment programs in key sectors, and to generate sound projects by
stressing the training of Cameroonian cadre.
Ln. No. 2073   Post and Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project:
US$7.5 million loan of March 19, 1982;
Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The purpose of the project is to reorganize and strengthen the Post
and Telecommunications entity so as to improve its financial situation and
the quality of service and to pave the way for a sound long term development
of the sector. It provides for establishment of a new operating entity,
preparation of an investment program and improved technical training.
Cr. No. 2092   Forestry Project:  US$17 million loan, not yet signed.
Not yet effective.
The project's objectives are to stregnthen the contribution of the
forestry sector to the economy through the establishment of plantations for
fuelwood and pulp industry raw material. It is also expected to increase the
capacity of Government agencies to continue the regeneration of forests and to
control the logging operations of forestry concessions.



- 33 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
OIL PALM/RUBBER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          15 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                        SOCAPALM and CAMDEV
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                      October 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:             February 1981
(e)  Negotiations completed:                    March 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
Assistance in:
(i) drafting the terms of reference for and selecting the resident
specialists and consultants,
(ii) reviewing recommendations of CAMDEV's reorganization study, and
(iii)  reviewing recommendations of the vegetable oil study
(Studies in (ii) and (iii) above to be financed under the CAMDEV II
Project).
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) effectiveness of separate financing agreements between the
Government and SOCAPALM and CAMDEV (para. 39);
(ii)  payment by Government of the first tranche of agreed capital
increases for SOCAPALM and CAMDEV (paras. 31 and 32);
(iii)  employment of five consultants to serve in line positions at
CAMDEV (para. 32); and



- 34 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) fulfillment of all effectiveness conditions on loans from
other co-donors (para. 38).
B.   The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
conditions:
(i)  no new expansion of oilpalm/rubber plantations at HEVECAM,
SOCAPALM and CAMDEV while a sub-sector strategy for the Sixth
Plan is under review (para. 28);
(ii)  payment of second tranche of capital increases for SOCAPALM
and CAMDEV before June 30, 1983; payment of third tranche of
capital increase for CAMDEV before June 30, 1984 (paras. 31
and 32);
(iii) a review of incentives for SOCAPALM and CAMDEV staff, to be
submitted to the Bank no later than December 31, 1983 (para. 32);
(iv)  exchange of views with the Bank on a producer price-fixing
formula (para. 33); and
(v)  provision of two interest-free medium-term loans to SOCAPALM
and CAMDEV (para. 38).
C.   Conditions of disbursement would be:
(i)  against the CAMDEV component, that the five specialists
mentioned under A (iii) have taken up their positions
(para. 32); and
(ii)  against the smallholder component, effectiveness of the
financing agreement between the Government and FONADER, and
of the credit administration agreements between FONADER and
SOCAPALM and CAMDEV (para. 40).



IBRD 16005R
/          1                  ;KtEoMamfe    C                       [ oMoud               / Fow,a,          110         )                     N                          April 1982 1
9/                        /                            .ou 1tchang          Bafosam  F                                        1IGE                    -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I G E R IChad)htgui)S                                         v8if
CHAD
NIGERIA                                            Nguti
BEN IN
),  1                \   |                                               r           W   a                            e                  r   N I G E RN I A
I                                                                         Bafang           Bangang 9                                     r                          *      \     __)
5r    /                Mundemba                                                                                                                                               CAME 05 I          REPUBLC
Nkongama
|  g   \   X         ,2         % j       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           >          X ken      likinimek:i               B    9       |        G4INA4                      ONfs  l 
kondoTiti
Cc FAanba N6                                                              bs                                                                                Ntui
0  :)0 \8Kompina  gf   \   /                  /          t              y          /,/                7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MbMandjok,
4. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~n
d e n a o                             M BA RI  D b b ri)             /             N  g a m b e                   M    n  t  l 
United Republic ol Camieroon                                                    de             -  PoumaD                                                   YAUD
OIL PALM  AND RUBBER                                  Dib SaFAiCA.                    M          esson a
SOCAPALM / ESTATE LOCATION =.
-Oil palm estotes BUS>,/   <  
._._-  Internation   l boundary         }      \                            eO _ o                                                                      OU       \
KIlometers 0      20       40       60        80       100Gtt / \ \ -                      makondo
Miles 0      2     0  4 0                                      Di ;e                                         S KA
rhis ma  005 botrt prosts,e  by Ohm Wvrldc Banks s6 tat! eoCtoisely ton thtt c500e,s,eo e
o cAte eAdL  ot A he  epot A to WhiEh it i  ett ihcd  mba d.ooteinatsos used and theT  ,b
hout,dstisehtashtw on thes msa   do not ctmplt. to the part of the World Bttok mnd rto_o  
arOilstto   thedlealm  ttuesosoc t earitore   orSUnytnSEdoroent or                                                                r
L   n ett s o me o sOtu h h d rios                                                                                        11 _  -_TgoA ebaomn12a.






UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                                       NIGER
OIL PALM AND RUBBER CONSOLIDATION PROJECT                                                                                                                    I HAD
CAMDEV ESTATE LOCATIONS
500'                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-00'
Crop distribftion
E _Z R.bber b                                                                                           NIGERIA                r 
,580none                  l~~~~I                                                               /                           / 
j3    Tea                          H |_                                                                       X   LoN      .C        CENTRAL
-   Principal roads                                                                  5.C A M EPRO O i   AF IC AN
Se-ondory roLds                                                                  _rr,ss                                   1  REPUBLIC
___  Frocks                          I                                                    ?<                           LrYoovd.     \
:Rivers                                                                                      EGS4R G                     r 'y..
5                10        5        20        25                                                                          GABON       REPUBLIC OF
KILOMETERS                                                                                                             CONGO
0              5              10             15
MILES
900, ~         ~                                (        2 !,5  4i 0 
rbel
"21                                                       A:             'W 
0  A "/" " w) <L t0                       
44 ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ _              9S     -        >';    _     S       X     ;t     ?, \              X
~  tricMbfo, , ;  ....  ., ;
9-00-                                              ~~~9,20'9,0                                                                            2C



