                            Document of
                           The World Bank
                                                    Report No. 31761




           SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                             UGANDA


          FIRST POVERTY REDUCATION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC1)
                             IDA-3510



                           March 10, 2005




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region

                       Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                          For Programmatic Adjustment Operations

Operation ID: P050438                                  Operation Name: Poverty Reduction Support
                                                       Credit (PRSC)
Team Leader: Ritva Reinikka                            TL Unit: Macroeconomics 2
                                                       Report Date: March 23, 2001


1. Program Data

Name:                     Poverty Reduction Support Credit             L/C Number:      35100
Country/Department:       AFTCO4                                       Region:          Africa
Sector/subsector:         Law & public admin
Theme:

KEY DATES
                                                                   Original           Revised/Actual
PCD/PR:            07/10/2000              Effective:              11/29/2001
Appraisal:         12/04/2000              MTR:
Approval:          05/31/2001              Closing:                03/31/2002


Borrower/Implementing Agency:
Other Partners:

STAFF                     Current                               At Appraisal
Vice President:           Gobind Nankani                        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Judy O'Connor                         James W. Adams
Sector Manager:           Dzingai Mutumbuka                     Fredrick Kilby
Team Leader at ICR:       Bruno Boccara                         Ritva Reinikka
ICR Primary Author:       Ivar Strand

2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


Outcome:                              S
Sustainability:                       L
Institutional Development             M
Impact:
Bank Performance:                     HS
Borrower Performance:                 S


                                      QAG (if available)                ICR
Quality at Entry:                     -
Operation at Risk at Any              -
Time:

3. Program Description
The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) was designed as the first annual operation of an
integrated program, consisting of three PRSCs, which were designed to support the
implementation of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action Plan. The World Bank Group's Country
Assistance Strategy 2000 supported the goals of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan by
providing projects in electric power, roads, and capacity building, giving programmatic support to
basic social services, and delivering the first PRSC, which was a new Bank instrument at that
time. It was designed to provide direct budget support to Uganda to help it implement its reform
program. The operations were all single tranche and of $150 million each.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
The goal of PRSC-I was to support selective areas prioritized in the Poverty Eradication Action
Plan rather than the plan as a whole. PRSC1 focused on improving the delivery of basic services
in health, education, and water supply and sanitation. This was to be achieved by: (i) raising the
productivity and cost-efficiency of public investment and expenditures; (ii) strengthening public
sector performance through revision of the public salary structure and improved human resource
management practices; (iii) improving governance through reforms in procurement, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation; (iv) increasing transparency and participation in
public administration and fighting corruption; and (v) initiating processes by which sector
constraints could be identified and removed through collaboration across sectoral ministries and
agencies.

The objectives established under PRSC1 were developed with the anticipation that there would be
subsequent annual operations continuing the support for the program. Goals for PRSC1 were
designed to be achieved at the end of the three year process, but with some markers (such as prior
actions) along the way. Thus, the achievement of the objectives established under PRSC1 cannot
be seen in isolation from the subsequent programs. The implementation completion report
assessing the three PRSCs as an integrated program provides a full discussion of the achievement
of the objectives for the integrated program.

A thirteen page matrix describing the reform program and policy actions for the various areas
lays out what has been accomplished during the PRSC1, and describes the reform program for
two consecutive years. These policy actions are all procedural in nature. The full matrix is
available in the program document. Twelve monitorable benchmarks (prior actions) were
achieved as requirements for presentation of the program to the Board:
 Agreed with IDA on the medium term expenditure framework for 2000/01-2002/03 and
executed the 2000/01 budget consistent with agreed allocations through the first two quarters.
 Introduced monitoring of results and annual output targets in the roads, education, health and
water and sanitation sectors in the 2000/01-2002/03 Budget Framework Paper.
 Agreed on the objectives and principles of a pay reform strategy consistent with the medium
term expenditure framework and improved service delivery.
 Issued new procurement regulations for ministries, departments, and agencies.
 Established a coordination mechanism for guiding and monitoring reform programs in
financial management.
 Gazetted the Leadership Code 2000 Bill and the Inspectorate of Government 2000 Bill and
tabled them in Parliament.
 Implemented the undertakings agreed in the joint Government-donor education sector review
in April 2000, satisfactory to and confirmed by the education sector review in October 2000.
 Launched a national recruitment campaign for 15,000 new teachers.

 Implemented the undertakings agreed in the joint Government-donor health sector review in
April 2000, satisfactory to and confirmed by the health sector review in October 2000.
 Made interim procurement arrangements in the health sector in accordance with the recently
issued procurement regulations for ministries, departments, and agencies.
 Established fully staffed district water and sanitation teams in half of the districts.
 Settled debts worth Uganda shillings 5 billion owed to the National Water and Sewerage
Corporation by government ministries, departments, and agencies.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
There are several factors that have affected the program but are beyond the direct control of the
implementing agency. The most disruptive factor for implementation of the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan and the PRSC support has been the continued insecurity and the socio-economic
challenges posed by the 17-year conflict in the North and the cattle-rustling related insecurity in
the East. Conflict has affected a large segment of Uganda's poor, heightening regional disparities.
The destruction of the livelihoods of the communities living in these areas has resulted in very
high or rising poverty levels and displaced some 1.2 million persons.           Also, the drop in
international commodity prices after 1998/99 affected Uganda's exports during this period, a drop
of $222 million in coffee earnings alone, by 2002. Because Uganda has only recently begun to
diversify agricultural exports, this vulnerability to changes in world prices reduced Uganda's
GDP growth and probably contributed to the increase in income poverty that occurred since the
1999 household survey. Furthermore, where economic and social advancement are driven by
nepotism and graft rather than by entrepreneurship, productivity, and a level playing field, the
consequences are clearly negative for investment and growth.

The factors generally under government control that are likely to have had the most detrimental
impact, are the continuing levels of corruption, the impact on development budgets of increasing
defense spending, and the loss of government income due to the continued poor performance of
the revenue authority. Expenditures on Public Administration could also have been controlled
better. Although problematic, all of these lie generally within government control.

Because of the nature of the PRSC which does not have an implementation phase beyond the
satisfaction of prior requirements, there is no single implementation agency for the PRSC
reforms. Responsibility is divided among many ministries, district governments, and specialized
agencies. The role of the recently established Poverty Eradication Action Plan coordinating
function in the Office of the Prime Minister has yet to mature, and in any case, is unlikely to
fulfill what is usually meant by the term "implementing agency". At the time of this operation
however, coordination was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development. While this ministry coordinated the operation effectively it did not achieve
establishing broad based ownership of the reform program in the manner later demonstrated by
the Office of the Prime Minister. Collectively, the performance of the government has been
uneven, with many bottlenecks in approving bills and strategies. This has undoubtedly had an
impact on the progress made under the PRSC. However, it was clear at the outset of the PRSC
process that the reforms envisaged constituted an enormous task; and if the deadlines envisaged
for results under the PRSC are taken into account, it is also clear that the expectations were
unrealistic given the limited capacity of government and the burdens it already carries,
implementation agency for the PRSC reforms. Responsibility is divided among many ministries,
district governments, and specialized agencies.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

The ratings are same for all three operations in the series. Please see the full implementation
completion report for PRSC1-3.

Bank: Perhaps the two most important things that the Bank did was (i) to take the risk of moving
to a budget support operation; and (ii) to use Uganda's "home grown" poverty reduction program
(the Poverty Eradication Action Plan) as a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The Uganda PRSC
was the first World Bank operation in Africa in which there was direct "across-the-board" support
to a country's annual budget. There were clear risks due to corruption and pervasive institutional
and human capacity weaknesses especially in the area of financial accountability and
procurement. In the end, all of the challenges were successfully managed, which is a tribute to the
Bank, other donors and the Government. The PRSC played an important role in holding the
strategic focus on the various dimensions of poverty and helped facilitate the coordination among
Government ministries and agencies, a critical element in making progress in areas that needed
cross-cutting approaches. The Bank's delivery of the PRSC program was effective, given the
goals and the priorities selected for prior actions. The Bank also effectively facilitated donor
collaboration, some through direct contributions, some by alignment of their programs with the
PRSC, and all in terms of participation. There was excellent coordination with the International
Monetary Fund. The Bank delivery of the PRSC financial package, although usually coming
after the start of the budget year, was sufficiently well aligned with the budget cycle and, because
there was confidence that it would be forthcoming, helped create greater predictability and
improved budget performance in terms of allocations and expenditures.             The programmatic
approach, based upon the Poverty Eradication Action Plan, also facilitated government ownership
and helped coordination with other donors. Also, the comprehensiveness helped address multi-
sectoral issues. However, the design was not conducive for actual monitoring of whether the
program was actually successful in achieving the Poverty Eradication Action Plan-related goals
stated in the PRSC. This is primarily a problem of the way in which the program presented its
goals, which was arguably too ambitious, and too generalized. Too few outcomes were stated in
concrete and measurable terms, and too little data and information was available upon which to
make judgments about progress and impact.

Based on the factors described above, the overall Bank performance is rated as Highly
Satisfactory.

Borrower: The Government's preparation of the Poverty Eradication Action Plan provided the
basis for the entire PRSC. This document was based on extensive consultation, participatory
poverty assessments, household surveys, census data, and in-depth sectoral analyses.            The
Poverty Eradication Action Plan has been highly praised within the Bank and the donor
community as providing a sound framework and strategy for poverty reduction. The Government
has been vigilant in identifying weaknesses and gaps, and revising the Poverty Eradication Action
Plan as needed. The Poverty Eradication Action Plan covers all of the critical elements needed in
terms of institutional, environmental, economic, and social factors, as well as civic participation
and community development. The Government implementation performance was uneven. In
some components, especially those concerned with the delivery of essential services (health,
primary education, and water) there was a higher level of both effectiveness and efficiency than
had been seen in the past, although quality and direct poverty-targeting sometimes suffered. The
enactment of strategies, laws, and oversight measures (including auditing) has moved forward
slowly, and in some cases with significant delay. This has been largely a function of the
complexity of the Government's reform program, the limited capacity within government, the
already significant burden being carried by public administration, and a degree of political
conflict surrounding certain governance measures. In the areas of corruption and defense
spending, government performance has been disappointing, and has tended to color perceptions

about overall government commitment. There was no specific implementing agency for the
PRSC, as it is a cross-sectoral program involving many agencies of government, frequently
meeting in cross-sectoral groups. Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development as
the lead agency, however, should be commended for competent handling of coordinating a very
complex cross-ministerial program.

Based on the factors stated above, the overall borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series
The PRSC1 has provided the basis for a continuation of the PRSC approach with a high degree of
continuity. Therefore it provides an excellent basis for learning from experience and translating
these lessons into improved focus, strategies, and mechanisms for future PRSC operations. This
simplified ICR however, is written after the completion of the series of the three PRSCs. For the
future, simplified completion reports should be written immediately after the completion of the
program in question in order to have an impact on the design of the next operation. As discussed
above, an implementation completion report of the full program has been developed and it
discussed findings and implications for the design of future PRSCs in Uganda, as well as for
PRSCs in other countries. Also, a stocktaking report of the first series of PRSCs has been written
and discussed extensively in Uganda. Both of these reports have spurred discussions and have
had an impact on the further development of the PRSC program.

