Report No. PID9653
Project Name                     Uganda-Poverty Reduction Support (@)
Credit (PRSC)
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Non Sector Specific
Project ID                       UGPE50438
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development
Attn. Mrs. Mary Muduuli,
Acting Deputy Secretary to the
Treasury,
Treasury Building,
P. 0. Box 8147, Kampala, Uganda
Tel: 256-41-234433
Fax: 256-41-230163
Date of PID                      January 19, 2001
Project Appraisal                January/February 2001
Board Date                       March 2001
Appraisal Date                   December 4, 2000
Country Background. Uganda's macroeconomic performance has been excellent in
the past decade. Average real growth rate of GDP has been close to 7 percent
per year since 1986, and inflation has been reduced to single digits since
1992. Similarly, most external and domestic market distortions have been
removed so that many of the objectives of structural adjustment have been
achieved. These developments have translated to increases in welfare and a
substantial reduction in poverty, with the incidence of poverty (headcount
index) falling from 56 percent in 1992/93 to 35 percent in 1999/2000.
Despite the success in economic management, poverty remains a dominant
feature in the country, and progress in social and human development to-date
has been relatively modest. Due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, life expectancy has
actually fallen. Institutional recovery has also been slow, which is
reflected in poor infrastructure, and poor agricultural and social service
delivery. One of the main challenges for the Government and the donor
community is to speed up Uganda's institutional development and rapidly
improve public service delivery. Decentralization presents an additional
challenge to institutional development and coordination.
Project Objectives and Description. The proposed Poverty Reduction Support
Credit (PRSC) is the Bank's main instrument to support the implementation of
the Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The Government's strategy for economic
growth and poverty reduction is based on four pillars:
- Creating an enabling environment for economic growth and structural
transformation;
- Ensuring good governance and security;
- Directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes
through rural development and expansion of non-farm economic



activities; and
- Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor through provision
of primary education, health care, and water and sanitation services.
The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is a series of programmatic
structural adjustment credits to support the implementation of the PEAP/PRSP
that has clear performance benchmarks, outcome indicators, and policy
measures. The series of PRSCs is intended to cover two PEAP/PRSP cycles and
become synchronized with the Government's budget cycle. The first PRSC
supports reforms selectively under the four pillars. Specifically, Uganda's
reform program under PRSCI would improve public service delivery through:
- Efficient and equitable use of public resources, which is essential to
improve public resource allocation and raise the productivity and cost-
efficiency of public investment and other expenditures.
- Improved governance through cross-cutting public sector reforms, such
as the reform of pay policies and human resource management, public
procurement, financial management, and measures to increase
transparency and fight corruption. The revision of the current public
pay structure and human resource management practices will help the
Government recruit and retain high-quality staff. Improvements in
public procurement and financial management will promote accountability
for Government resources, and enhanced transparency and anti-corruption
effort will help citizens hold their leaders and public officials more
accountable for the quantity and quality of services.
- Improved access and quality of education, health care, and water and
sanitation services. Effective delivery of basic services will not
improve unless binding sector-specific constraints are addressed.
However, many problems in basic service sectors are beyond the mandate
of a particular sector and require collaboration across agencies.
Project financing. The expected IDA funding for the first annual PRSC is
$150 million. Other donors likely to provide parallel funding on similar
terms or on a grant basis are the European Commission, African Development
Bank, DFID (UK), Ireland, and the Netherlands.
Poverty category: Poverty-focussed operation.
Environmental and Social Aspects: As a programmatic credit, there are some
direct and indirect environmental and social issues primarily linked to
activities in the health and water sectors. The project will improve local
environmental and health conditions by expanding health services and reliable
water supply and improved sanitation for the local population. Environmental
risks are associated with biomedical hazardous materials and several
environmental design and sustainability issues of water supply and sanitation
facilities. All subprojects will have to meet currently existing national
environmental standards and guidelines for these sectors. Government and the
implementing agencies are engaged in improving environmental sustainability
for these sectors. The MOH plans to embark on an expanded environmental
health training program aimed at the District level health units for
handling, storage and disposal of biomedical hazardous wastes. The
reorganized water authority is continuing its reformulation of consultation
provisions and use of appropriately trained and experienced staff for these
matters. Environmental review checklists for subproject schemes will be added
to the Planning and Operational Guidelines. Larger urban and town works in
excess of US$1 million will have environmental impact assessments (EIA)
- 2-



prepared and disclosed in accordance with existing Government regulations.
This will include a section covering environmental criteria for subproject
appraisal, and environmental requirements for contractors. A social
connection policy, linked to water use tariffs, will be developed as part of
the water sector reorganization process that will ensure access by poor
households through yard taps or public standposts.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
- 3 -



